DRN-4311724
The complaint
Mr H complains that BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt agreed to pay for all of the laser 
treatment hes claimed for on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H is a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy. Mr H suffers 
from a dermatological condition and was under the care of a consultant who Ill call Mr L. Mr 
L is recognised by BUPA and it covered the costs of Mr Ls consultations with Mr H.
In October 2022, Mr L noted that the antibiotic treatment hed previously prescribed Mr H 
wasnt working effectively. Mr L therefore felt it would be reasonable for Mr H to arrange 
laser treatment for his condition.
Mr H arranged laser treatment at a clinic and began to undergo a programme of treatment. 
He made a claim on the policy for the laser treatment. However, the clinic providing the 
treatment wasnt a facility which BUPA recognised. So the claim wasnt covered by the 
terms of Mr Hs policy.
BUPA retrospectively agreed to pay for three sessions of laser treatment at Mr Hs provider. 
And it agreed to authorise four more laser treatment sessions for Mr H  but only if the 
treatment took place at a recognised facility.
Mr H said that he was undergoing a bespoke treatment programme and that the laser was 
specifically tailored for his skin-type and condition. He felt it would be fair and reasonable for 
BUPA to continue to pay for his sessions at the clinic which was already providing his care. 
So he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator felt BUPA had handled Mr Hs claim fairly. She understood why Mr H would 
prefer to continue to undergo laser treatment at the unrecognised clinic. But she felt the 
policy terms clearly excluded claims where treatment took place at an unrecognised facility. 
She noted there were clinics BUPA did recognise which could provide Mr Hs care. And she 
didnt think the available medical evidence indicated that the laser the unrecognised clinic 
was using was specifically tailored for Mr Hs skin type and condition. So she didnt think 
BUPA needed to pay for Mr Hs laser treatment at the clinic over and above the three 
sessions it had already covered.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think BUPA has handled his claim 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In this 
decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been made and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the group policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think BUPA 
handled Mr Hs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Hs 
employers contract with BUPA. The policy covers eligible treatment and BUPA accepts that 
laser treatment for Mr Hs condition is eligible under the policy terms. However, the policy 
also sets out a list of things BUPA has specifically chosen to exclude from cover. Page 47 of 
the policy terms includes Exclusion 31  Treatment in a facility that is not a recognised 
facility. This exclusion says:
We do not pay consultants fees for treatment that you receive in a hospital or any other 
type of treatment facility that is not a recognised facility.
So I think BUPA has made it sufficiently clear that it wont pay for treatment which takes 
place at an unrecognised facility, even if that treatment would otherwise be eligible. Ive 
checked on BUPAs hospital checker and I can see that the clinic Mr H has been treated by 
isnt a recognised facility. (Although the consultant leading Mr Hs care overall and who 
seems to have referred to Mr H to the clinic is a recognised consultant.) This means that 
under the terms of the insurance contract, Mr H isnt covered for any laser treatment he 
undergoes at the clinic.
BUPA retrospectively agreed to pay for three sessions of laser treatment at the 
unrecognised facility though, outside of the policy terms. In my view, this was a fair and 
reasonable decision for it to make. It agreed to cover four more sessions of laser treatment 
for Mr H  but only at a facility it did recognise. I dont think this was an unfair position for 
BUPA to take, given the terms of the contract.
Mr H has explained, in detail, the reasons why he would prefer to continue his care under 
the unrecognised clinic. I can entirely understand why Mr H would wish to continue treatment 
under a provider which he trusts and because he says the treatment has been successful. 
Ive also taken on board his comments about the bespoke treatment plan hes been under 
and the laser being tailored to his particular skin-type and condition. 
However, Ive looked carefully at the available evidence. While Mr L felt laser treatment 
would be reasonable for Mr H, he didnt specify any particular clinic as being the best facility 
to provide the treatment. Mr L didnt suggest (and hasnt suggested since) that the 
unrecognised clinic provided a tailored laser, or that no other clinic would be able to take 
over Mr Hs care in an effective and safe way. Having checked BUPAs hospital finder, I can 
see recognised facilities which offer laser treatment only a few miles from Mr Hs home. And 
while Mr H says he has had difficulties in getting through to recognised clinics and arranging 
appointments with them, he hasnt provided any phone or written records of attempted 
contact with other clinics. Its also open to Mr H to speak to BUPA about finding an 
alternative, recognised clinic, should he wish to do so.
I do sympathise with Mr Hs position, as I appreciate how important continuing to receive 
treatment is to him. But I havent seen enough compelling evidence to persuade me that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to direct BUPA to depart from the policy terms and pay 
for Mr Hs further treatment at the unrecognised facility. It appears that Mr L remains a 
recognised consultant, so Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr H isnt presently able to remain under his care. Having carefully considered all of the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think it was unfair for BUPA not to pay for further sessions of treatment at 
an unrecognised facility. It follows then that Im not telling BUPA to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman