DRN-3094253
The complaint
Ms A complains that Bank of Scotland Plc wont send her a full breakdown for the solicitors 
fees it applied to her mortgage. 
What happened
Ms A has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. On 11 February 2020, the bank applied 
solicitors costs of £540 to Ms As mortgage. On 24 February 2020, the bank applied further 
solicitors costs of £385 to the mortgage. Ms A asked for a full breakdown of the fees, 
including hourly rates, the time spent on the matter, the specific work carried out, clarification 
whether calls and emails were charged separately, and a calculation of the sum applied to 
the mortgage.
Bank of Scotland said that it worked with solicitors on a pre-agreed contract with a 
schedule of works for standard litigation.
Ms A didnt accept the banks response. She said it had previously given her breakdowns in 
line with her request. She said that it hadnt investigated or addressed her complaint and that 
its action had caused her a considerable amount of stress, distress and anxiety.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms A didnt accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed everything that Ms A has told us  including her response to the 
investigators view. I understand that Ms A wants to provide recordings of phone calls she 
has with the bank. But I am satisfied that I have enough information to reach a decision on 
this case without that information.
I note Ms As points about the FCAs high level principles and the Mortgages and Home 
Finance Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB). I am required to take them into account 
along with what in my view is good industry practice (amongst other things) in deciding what 
in my opinion is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. Having 
done so, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage give Bank of Scotland the right to pass on any 
costs it incurs in relation to Ms As mortgage to Ms A unless they were incurred 
unreasonably or the amount of them was unreasonable. It goes on to give the example of 
any legal proceedings brought by or against Ms A. So I am satisfied that Bank of Scotland 
was entitled to pass on any solicitors fees it incurred to Ms A providing they werent incurred 
unreasonably, or the amount of the fees wasnt unreasonable.
The costs of £540 were for a solicitor to appear at a possession hearing at court. It was £450 
in fees plus VAT. This does not seem unreasonable for a solicitor to prepare and appear at 
court. So I dont consider this fee was unreasonable.
The costs of £385 were made up of stage 4 costs of £60 plus VAT and stage 5 costs of £60 
plus VAT. There were also disbursements of £121 for a warrant fee and £100 for a 
cancellation fee. Bank of Scotland has explained that the stage 4 and 5 costs are fixed fees 
it has agreed with its solicitors. This does not seem unreasonable, and is in line with 
examples I have seen in my experience, and bearing in mind the nature of the work that was 
undertaken. And the disbursements were costs that the solicitors incurred. So I dont think 
any of the amounts charged were unreasonable.
Ive found that the amounts of the fees were reasonable. And looking at the significant level 
of arrears on the account I dont consider that it was unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to 
take the action it did.
I dont consider the fees were incurred unreasonably or that the amount of the fees was 
unreasonable. So I dont consider that Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances of this case. It has passed on its costs in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage that Ms A agreed to.
While Ms A might had obtained a more detailed breakdown of legal fees on another 
mortgage with Bank of Scotland, it doesnt follow that it is required to do so in this case. The 
bank has explained that the fees on the other case were non-standard, hence the 
breakdowns.
I accept that Bank of Scotland might have refunded other legal and arrears fees. It has 
explained that it has carried out a number of consumer remediation exercises in recent 
years. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider these legal fees have been applied 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman