DRN-3417829
The complaint
Mr F complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited wrongly took a payment towards his 
student loan, even though payments were deferred. It wont explain how the error occurred 
or guarantee that it wont happen again. 
What happened
There is no real dispute about the facts in this case. Mr F has several student loans, dating 
back to 1995. The current balance is around £2,700.
Mr F is unemployed and, at the time of the events giving rise to this complaint, his loan 
payments of just over £150 a month were deferred to 9 January 2022; he has said that the 
deferment period has since been extended.
In September 2021 Erudio took a loan payment by direct debit. Mr F contacted Erudio on the 
same day to complain. Erudio offered to refund the payment, but Mr F explained that he had 
already taken steps to recover the money from his bank. He said too that arrears had 
wrongly been added to the account; that should not have happened while the agreed 
deferment was in place. Erudio agreed to look into that and remove any arrears that had 
been added in that period.
Erudio says it thought that had resolved the matter, but Mr F referred it to this service. He 
said that something similar had happened in September and October 2018. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened and sought Erudios comments. Because he 
did not receive any response, the investigator issued a preliminary assessment, 
recommending that Erudio pay Mr F £200 by way of compensation.
Erudio did not agree with the investigators recommendation. It said that, whilst there had 
been an error, it had taken steps to rectify the situation as soon as it became aware of the 
problem. By then, Mr F had in any event already taken steps to recover funds from his bank.
I therefore reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. I said that, whilst there had 
been an error on Erudios part, it did not necessarily follow that Mr F should receive any 
compensation because of it. Erudio had acknowledged and offered to correct the error 
almost immediately, and Mr F had in any event secured a refund through his bank.
I noted as well that Mr F had asked for, but not received, an explanation for the error. I 
thought however that the refund of the money taken in error was enough to resolve the 
complaint. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr F, as well as repeating some of his previous 
arguments, said that Erudio had written to him after the payment was taken in error to say 
that his account was in arrears    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, I think the most important thing here  as far as the 
resolution of the complaint is concerned  is that any payments taken in error have been 
refunded. That happened almost immediately. It is also important that Erudio has 
acknowledged its error. Whilst I would expect Erudio to seek to identify the cause of the error 
(so that it can stop it happening again), I do not think it is necessary for it to share the results 
of any investigation with Mr F. 
I note as well that Erudio also suggested that Mr Fs account was in arrears, when that is not 
the case. That however seems to me to be part of the same issue which led to the attempt to 
take payments from him. It does not appear that Erudio is suggesting that there remain any 
missed payments. I do not propose to require Erudio to confirm that is the case, but it might 
be helpful for Mr F if it were to do so.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman