DRN-2035940
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs S. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs S was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. This is because I think AXA didnt give Mrs S all 
the information she needed when deciding on whether to take PPI. The form itself didnt 
have enough information, and I cant be sure what else she was told at the time.
I dont think Mrs S would have taken the PPI if shed fully understood its terms. This is 
because the likely wording of the policy made it much more difficult to make an 
unemployment claim if you were self-employed. 
AXA has questioned whether Mrs S would have counted as self-employed. Mrs S  has said 
she was a company secretary and a director of the company. But AXA says that Company 
House records show her as being appointed a director only in 2017. It has not though said 
whether all director appointments from 2000 are present on the record; or whether there is 
no evidence that, in the intervening years, Mrs S had resigned and been reappointed as a 
company director. 
However, more important is the fact that the policy regarded you as self-empoyed if you 
were working for a company and in any way connected  with a person who has control 
over that company. Given that the company name was partly made up of Mrs Ss surname, 
and that she has testified that she was a director, I think its more likely than not she would 
have been caught by this term in some way. And if not, I think she would have believed she 
would be caught. And so, either way, she wouldnt have regarded the PPI as worth the cost 
if the relevant terms had been drawn to her attention. 
I think Mrs S has lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs S that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman