DRN-3883350
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was given incorrect information by ReAssure Limited about the life 
insurance cover on his pension policy.
What happened
Mr F asked ReAssure in January 2021 when his life cover would expire. ReAssure 
responded to say there was no expiry date on the policy, but he could remove the cover at 
any time. 
In August 2021 he received a letter explaining his life cover had expired. C queried the 
conflicting information he received and asked for the life cover to remain in place. He 
complained to ReAssure who apologised for the wrong information Mr F had been given in 
January. His life cover ended in accordance with the terms and conditions of his plan when 
he reached his selected retirement date which was 55. ReAssure said it couldnt be 
reinstated, but offered £200 as an apology for the incorrect information they provided.
Mr F remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service. He said he missed out 
on securing cheaper alternative cover. He provided quotes he requested in mid September 
2021 which showed cover at age 54 and 5 months would have been cheaper than at age 55 
by £5.42 per month. He feels the difference in premiums over a 15 year term would be fair 
compensation.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Mr F confirmed that he hadnt taken out 
replacement life cover since it expired. So the investigator didnt think he had suffered a 
financial loss of having to pay higher premiums. She thought the £200 offered was fair and 
reasonable compensation in this case.
Mr F disagreed and wants to be compensated for the loss of opportunity to purchase 
cheaper cover. He said the only reason he didnt purchase new cover after August was the 
increased premiums. He asked for an ombudsmans decision which is why the case was 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the offered compensation by ReAssure is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Its undisputed that ReAssure gave Mr F incorrect information in January 2021. I considered 
what likely would have happened, on the balance of probabilities, if ReAssure had told Mr F 
in January that his life cover would cease in August and if he has been disadvantaged as a 
result.
I appreciate its possible that Mr F would have cancelled his ongoing cover straight away and 
taken out alternative cover. And I acknowledge that if Mr F had done so he might have 
secured cheaper cover than if he had waited until August. I say might, because the quotes 
in January at age 54 and 5 months could theoretically still have been more expensive or 
similarly priced than an age 55 quote in August. Prices offered by providers will vary over 
time due to market competition and internal pricing.
Its also possible Mr F might have waited until August before taking out new cover in any 
event. When he was told the cover was cancelled he wanted it to be reinstated, so Im 
assuming he was happy with the premiums he was paying which were possibly fairly low 
compared to more recent standalone quotes given it was included in a pension taken out 
some time ago. 
Mr F might have also decided to simply not continue with his life cover. I think Mr Fs actions 
when he knew about the expired life cover are relevant here. Mr F decided not to purchase 
new life cover. I understand that he says it was the difference in cost that stopped him. 
However, I find this not particularly persuasive. The additional monthly cost was relatively 
low and if this really wasnt affordable, costs could have been reduced by lowering the sum 
assured (assuming the quotes Mr F provided were the already the lowest he could find on 
the open market). If Mr F really wanted additional life cover I think he likely would have 
bought it, even if it was for a slightly lower sum. 
So on the balance of probabilities I think he likely wouldnt have bought new life cover in 
January 2021 if he had been told his existing policy would expire in August. I dont think the 
slightly higher premiums were the deciding factor of not taking out new life cover.  
As Mr F hasnt taken out new life cover, he hasnt suffered a financial loss in the form of 
higher premiums in any event. I considered his argument about loss of opportunity, and I can 
consider this where I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances. However, for the 
reasons explained above, in my view its unlikely Mr F would have taken out new life cover if 
he had been told about the expiry date earlier. And even if he had, its uncertain premiums 
would have been cheaper at that time.
So overall, I think the offer of £200 offered by ReAssure is reasonable to address the stress 
and disappointment their error caused Mr F. 
Mr F queried whether interest would be awarded on this sum given the time that has passed 
since the offer was made and the complaint referred to this service. I dont consider this 
reasonable in the circumstances. The offer made by ReAssure was and still is fair. I
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I consider the offer made by ReAssure reasonable in the 
circumstances and require them to pay this to Mr F as soon as possible if they havent 
already done so (once he provides them with his account details). 
ReAssure must pay the compensation within 21 days once weve told them Mr F accepts my 
final decision and Mr F has provided them with his account details. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Nina WalterOmbudsman