DRN-4276189
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card application. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr M applied for a credit card with Capital One. In his application, Mr M 
said he was a homeowner and employed with an income of £32,000 a year. Capital One 
says it completed a credit search to get a picture of Mr Ms finances and applied its lending 
criteria to the application. Capital One approved a credit card with a limit of £300 on 16 
November 2022. 
Mr M used the credit card and repaid the outstanding balance in full on 13 December 2022. 
Capital One sent Mr M a letter on 14 December 2022 to confirm the credit card had been 
closed. 
Earlier this year, Mr M complained that Capital One had lent irresponsibly and it sent him a 
final response. Capital One didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms case. They thought Capital One had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving Mr Ms credit card and didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr M asked to appeal and said he had a number of loans and credit 
cards at the time he applied to Capital One and was many thousands of pounds in debt. Mr 
M added that he also had to meet mortgage and regular bills and that Capital One shouldnt 
have approved his credit card. As Mr M asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
In this case, Capital One says it looked at the information Mr M provided in his application 
and also carried out a credit search. Ive looked at Mr Ms application and can see he 
confirmed his residential status as a homeowner. The application gave Mr Ms profession 
and an income figure of £32,000. In addition to the application Mr M provided, Capital One 
carried out a credit search and has provided a copy of the results it found. 
In Mr Ms complaint submission he said he had a large number of loans and credit cards at 
the point he applied. Capital One has provided the credit searches it obtained from two credit 
reference agencies. They both show evidence of two credit cards and an unsecured loan. 
But they dont show evidence of active arrears at the point Mr M applied. And Im satisfied 
Capital One was aware that some of Mr Ms commitments included missed payments and 
factored that in. The information Ive seen shows Capital One did carry out the necessary 
credit checks and took Mr Ms commitments into account when deciding whether to lend. 
I can also see that Mr Ms mortgage was found on his credit file and Im satisfied that cost 
was taken into account by Capital One during the application. 
Mr M has pointed out he already had credit cards with Capital One. And I agree that applying 
for new credit can be a sign of financial difficulty. But I think its fair to add that this 
application was for a credit card with a reasonably low limit. And Capital One approved a 
credit limit of £300. In my view, the checks completed by Capital One were reasonable and 
proportionate to the application Mr M made. I havent been persuaded that Capital One lent 
irresponsibly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied Capital One dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman