DRN-3222445
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Financial Services trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) provided misleading information about the cancellation of a finance agreement.  
 
What happened
On 10 May 2021 Mr K entered into a Buy Now Pay Later finance agreement with BPF when 
purchasing electrical goods from a retailer. The agreement said If you change your mind 
you can withdraw from the agreement within 14 days of the day after your sign the 
agreement.
On 12 May 2021 Mr K contacted BPF by phone to cancel the agreement. The call handler 
said that the agreement couldnt be cancelled because it wasnt live and wouldnt be live until 
he was supplied with the goods. He said that prior to the delivery of the goods, Mr K would 
need to contact the retailer and they would need to cancel the agreement. 
Mr K was unhappy with this as he thought that the statement in the agreement about 
cancellation was misleading. He wrote to the retailer to cancel the order and wrote to BPF to 
cancel the agreement. The order was cancelled, and Mr K received his deposit back. He 
complained to BPF about the misleading wording. He was also unhappy that the only 
options were to cancel by phone or by post, when the agreement was completed by e mail. 
In their final response on 13 May 2021 BPF explained that the terms that Mr K was referring 
to related to when a customer wanted to withdraw from the finance agreement but to still 
proceed with the related purchase paying by another method. In that case, the customer 
could cancel the loan agreement as detailed. If the customer wanted to cancel the purchase 
and the agreement, then the retailer should be contacted and they in turn would cancel the 
finance agreement. They said this was in their terms and conditions. They also said that they 
had spoken to the retailer, who confirmed that the order had been cancelled and so the 
finance agreement had been updated accordingly. 
Mr K was unhappy with this explanation and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and he thought that BPFs terms were 
clear and they had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view and the case came to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to look at whether Mr K was misled, and whether he suffered any detriment as a 
result of that, and if so, what the business can do to put that right. I cant tell a business to 
change wording in their finance agreements or suggest what that wording should be.   
In the agreement signed by Mr K it says:
You can withdraw from the agreement within 14 days beginning on the day after you sign 
the agreement, or when we confirm to you in writing that you and we have entered into the 
agreement, if this is later. You can do this by calling us on xxxx or writing to us at xxxx.
If you withdraw from then agreement and we have paid the loan amount to the retailer, you 
will have to pay the amount of the loan within 30 days of the date you told us that you want 
to withdraw from it (we will not charge you interest or any other charge during that time). 
Withdrawing from the loan does not cancel your purchase. You will need to make 
separate arrangements with the retailer if you withdraw before we have paid the loan amount 
to the retailer. To keep things simple, the retailer may delay supplying your purchase until 
the 14 days you have to withdraw from the loan have passed.
I am satisfied that the terms of this agreement say that if the purchaser wishes to withdraw 
from the loan before the payment has been made to the retailer (as in this case) the 
purchaser needs to contact the retailer. 
Although it is not explicit in the wording, BPF have confirmed to Mr K on the phone that in 
that situation, the retailer would then make contact with BPF finance to cancel the 
agreement. 
Given that this isnt explicit, I can understand why Mr K feels that it could have been clearer. 
However, I am satisfied that between the wording of the agreement and the information Mr K 
was given on the phone, he was easily able to cancel the purchase and the finance 
agreement with no detriment to himself.
In view of that I am satisfied that Mr K wasnt misled by information provided to him by BPF.
In relation to Mr Ks second point about not being able to cancel by e mail, a business is 
entitled to decide how it wants customers to make contact, and provided that is clear in the 
terms and conditions, I would not consider that to be unreasonable.     
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint, and that Clydesdale Financial Services 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance do not need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman