DRN-2619674
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a travel insurance policy attached to their bank account, underwritten by 
Aviva. They bought the policy online. Any reference to Aviva includes any agents acting on 
its behalf. 
They went on holiday when Mr D became unwell on the plane and had to have emergency 
treatment for his heart condition. Mrs D called Aviva to ask for assistance but didnt think it 
was helpful. Aviva declined the claim as Mr D hadnt declared any pre-existing medical 
conditions (PEMCs), and had he done so at the time of buying the insurance, Aviva would 
have excluded those conditions. 
Mrs D says Mr D did declare his conditions. In addition, she doesnt think Aviva treated her 
fairly and didnt assist her. As a gesture of goodwill, Mrs Ds accommodation costs and the 
repatriation costs were covered. But Mrs D thinks Aviva should also pay her compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Unhappy with the way Aviva handled matters, Mrs D referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva unfairly declined the claim as 
there was no evidence that Mr D had declared any PEMCs. And if he had done so, he 
wouldnt have been covered. 
Mrs D disagreed and says Aviva didnt help her with her health problems. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say Im sorry to hear of the difficult circumstances Mr and Mrs D have been 
faced with. And I wish them well. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
When Mr D bought the policy online, he didnt declare any of his PEMCs. Aviva has shown 
that had Mr D declared his PEMCs, it would have excluded cover for those conditions. Mr D 
says he did call to confirm his conditions but was told he didnt need to declare anything. 
Aviva says it hasnt been able to locate a call recording  and the policy was bought online.
The online screen confirms the significant limitations and exclusions which say Aviva will not 
pay claims for:
Pre-existing medical conditions, unless disclosed and accepted by us.
So if Mr D had disclosed his PEMCs and had been told he would be covered, I would have 
expected to have seen this confirmed in writing. But it wasnt and Aviva has provided a retro-
screening which confirms that if Mr D had declared his conditions, cover wouldnt have been 
provided. This means any claims relating to Mr Ds heart condition wouldnt be covered. And 
so I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to decline the claim based on Mr Ds illness, which 
related to his heart. 
Mrs D also says Aviva failed to assist her at a really difficult and distressing time. Ive seen 
that Mrs D did call Aviva a number of times and it explained that it would need to confirm 
cover. This isnt an unusual step and insurers will first of all confirm the claim is covered 
before making arrangements to provide assistance. I appreciate Mrs D was worried and 
concerned at this time. Aviva contacted the hospital on the same day Mrs D called and 
spoke to her on numerous occasions. 
Overall, I dont think Aviva failed to assist Mrs D although I can see why she feels that way  
she was separated from her husband and cover couldnt be confirmed immediately. I 
understand this would have been frustrating for Mrs D but Aviva didnt do anything wrong by 
checking whether the claim could be covered.
Aviva then declined the claim on the basis that Mr D hadnt declared his PEMCs. But it 
confirmed the bank would pay for Mrs Ds accommodation and also arrange and pay for the 
repatriation, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs D says Aviva should have dealt with her illness too. She suffered from PTSD as a result 
of the problems and Aviva didnt help. Ive seen Aviva arranged a nurse to accompany Mrs D 
on the flight back to the UK. It also got in contact with the hotel Mrs D was staying at. So I 
dont think Aviva failed to assist Mrs D.
I can appreciate why Mrs D feels so strongly about this case. And there is no doubt that she 
has been through a traumatic experience. Considering her strength of feeling in the matter, I 
expect that Mrs D will disagree with my conclusions. I note Mrs D says she will take legal 
action. And this is something she is entitled to do, if she decides to reject my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman