DRN-3425884
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, approved an overdraft for her 
when it should not have done as it was irresponsible to allow her to have that lending. 
What happened
Miss F applied for an overdraft in January 2020 on-line and then applied for it to be 
increased. The overdraft limit approved was £2,500 and this was confirmed to her by letter. 
In June 2020, Halifaxs records show that she applied for a larger overdraft of £3,000 and 
that appears to have been declined. 
Miss F complained to the bank and received its final response letter (FRL) in January 2022. 
Halifax said that it was not upholding her complaint but as a goodwill gesture it was going to 
credit her account with £100 to bring her account back into the planned overdraft limit. It 
invited her to approach its Financial Assistance team for advice and support. 
Miss F referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where one of our adjudicators 
considered that Halifax had done nothing wrong. Miss F disagreed and so the unresolved 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. 
An arranged overdraft is a fixed borrowing limit, agreed in advance, which allows the 
consumer to spend up to that limit, through all the usual payment methods. This will usually 
be at a cost, either through a fixed monthly or daily fee whilst the account is overdrawn, 
and/or interest charged on the overdrawn balance. 
The questions I ask myself when considering a complaint of this nature are: Did the lender 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower would be 
able to repay any credit in a sustainable way? If so, was a fair lending decision made? If not, 
what would such checks more likely than not have shown?
Having carefully considered everything provided, I find that Halifax acted fairly when it 
approved Miss Fs overdraft facility in January 2020. 
Halifax has provided for me the copy bank statements for the relevant account leading up to 
January 2020 and having reviewed them theres nothing in the transactions recorded there 
which likely would have alerted Halifax to Miss F having any financial difficulties.
I have reviewed a copy of Miss Fs credit file and I can see that many of the larger debts 
obtained by her were started after the overdraft was approved and therefore would not have 
been seen in January 2020 by Halifax.
Overall, my view is that Halifaxs decision as appropriate and its checks were proportionate. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman