DRN-3214875
The complaint
Ms T is a sole trader. She complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined her 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Ms T opened a new business account with Barclays in August 2020.
Ms T attempted to apply to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan in September 2020, but was 
unable to submit an application online. This was because, given Ms T was a new business 
customer, the bank required some additional information about her business activity in order 
to consider a loan application from her. 
Barclays and Ms T discussed the matter over the weeks that followed and Ms T provided 
some information to the bank. The bank was sufficiently satisfied with the information that it 
allowed Ms T to submit an application  but the application was declined on 24 October 
2020 after it failed the banks checks. 
Barclays checks found that Ms T already had two Bounce Back Loans with other providers. 
Ms T advised that she ran separate businesses and believed she was entitled to a further 
loan. So the bank asked her for bank statements that demonstrated the distinct activity of the 
business for which she was seeking the further loan.
Ms T provided some bank statements to Barclays but even after reviewing these, the bank 
didnt change its decision  so Ms T raised a complaint.
Barclays maintained its decision to decline Ms Ts application. It said that businesses were 
only entitled to one loan per business under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules  and that 
it had been unable to confirm that the entity in question was eligible for a separate loan. So 
Ms T referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She thought that Ms Ts 
trading activity was effectively one business, and on that basis thought that the bank had 
correctly declined the application in line with the Loan Scheme rules. 
As Ms T didnt accept our investigators view, her complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Businesses were only entitled to one loan per business under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme rules. A customer could apply for a loan for each separate business  including sole 
traders running more than one business. 
Ms T had already obtained a Bounce Back Loan when she applied for another one from 
Barclays. The only way she would have been eligible for this is if it was to support a separate 
business from the business(es) for which she had already obtained a loan.
As Ms T explained to Barclays that she was looking for a loan for a separate business entity 
that had not yet received funding under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, the bank gathered 
information in order to establish this. Ms T hadnt banked with Barclays for long, so there 
was very little trading activity on which it could rely going through that account. So it asked 
Ms T for statements of her other accounts that demonstrated the trading for the business in 
question. Barclays was entitled  and expected  to conduct certain checks and ensure it 
was lending in line with the Scheme requirements, and I think the checks it carried out here 
were reasonable.
Barclays ultimately declined Ms Ts application because it failed the banks checks. The 
bank wasnt satisfied that the sole trader business for which Ms T was asking for a further 
loan was a separate business to that which had already received a loan. I think that decision 
was reasonable. The statements show very limited trading activity of any kind and nothing 
that wouldve enabled Barclays to identify any activity being conducted by a separate entity 
to those for which Ms T already received a Bounce Back Loan. 
It follows that I think it was reasonable for Barclays to decline Ms Ts application, on the 
basis that it couldnt see there was a separate business which was eligible for a Bounce 
Back Loan.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman