DRN-4223434
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) has managed the collection 
of debts in his name. 
What happened
Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought outstanding accounts in Mr Ds name and appointed Lowell 
to manage them on its behalf.
In February 2023 Lowell agreed to put the collection of the accounts on hold for 30 days 
after Mr D explained his personal circumstances. Lowell placed Mr Ds accounts with its 
customer support team which deals with vulnerable customers. 
As Lowell registered Mr Ds email address for online account access, it sent four automated 
emails during the time when the accounts were on hold. When Mr D complained, Lowell 
initially said that it only had a record of two emails being sent. 
In May 2023, the customer support team decided to close all of the accounts. Lowell then 
decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint about the four emails and offered £50 compensation.
After Mr D complained to this service, our investigator could see that it was distressing to 
receive four emails when the accounts were on hold but thought Lowells offer of 
compensation was fair. 
Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman but hasnt asked me to take 
account of any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that it was unfortunate that Lowell sent emails to Mr D when it had placed the 
accounts on hold. And that Lowell initially disagreed that it had sent four emails. Although 
the emails that Lowell sent were for Mr D to register for online account management rather 
than reminding him to pay the debts, I can appreciate that given Mr Ds mental health 
concerns, the contact was distressing for him. 
I dont seek in any way to downplay the impact Lowells oversight had on Mr D but Im 
satisfied that the offer to pay £50 is a fair way to resolve his complaint. Particularly as Lowell 
has since confirmed that it wont be asking Mr D to repay the debts. 
My final decision
I think Lowell has already made an offer which I think is fair. So, my final decision is that if it 
hasnt already done so, Lowell Financial Ltd should pay Mr D £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman