DRN-2912882
The complaint
Mr F complains ETU Forsikring A/S (ETU) have unfairly turned down a claim made on his 
pet insurance policy.
Other companies are involved in this complaint, but as ETU are responsible for it, Ive just 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr F initially took out this pet insurance policy  with it renewing in 2019 
and 2020. In July 2020 he needed to make a claim on it as his pets cruciate ligament (CCL) 
ruptured in her right leg. Mr F understood ETU turned down the claim as it was a pre-existing 
condition. Mr F says he understands this, as his pet had surgery on her left leg in 2016. But 
hed specifically asked whether this scenario would be covered before taking out the policy 
and he was told it would be. So, he complained as he felt the claim should be covered, or at 
the very least hed been mis-sold the policy so wanted his premiums back.
This decision only deals with the claim, it doesnt address whether the policy was mis-sold.
ETU said Mr Fs policy changed underwriters to them in January 2019, and theyd sent the 
new policy terms to him  the same terms he received when he renewed the policy in 
February 2019 and 2020. They said the first clinical signs of CCL were on 5 July 2016  
which was before the policy started. They quoted terms for bilateral conditions, chronic 
conditions, and their general conditions of cover  and explained because the condition had 
happened in Mr Fs pets left leg previously, then this claim for the right leg was a bilateral 
condition and not covered under the policy.
Unhappy with this Mr F asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so. In summary he didnt think ETU had applied the policy terms 
fairly because our approach is where we think two occurrences of the same condition arent 
linked then insurers shouldnt automatically exclude a condition in the other body part. Here, 
he felt ETU had essentially said because Mr Fs pet had surgery for CCL in her left leg in 
2016, ETU had turned down this claim with no evidence to show these conditions were 
linked.
Mr F accepted this outcome, but ETU didnt. In summary they said:
The policy wording for bilateral conditions hadnt been properly considered and they 
felt it still applied
They pointed to two entries in the clinical history of Mr Fs pet to show lameness and 
osteoarthritis were present from 2016 onwards which would lead to further 
degeneration over time
They provided some information from websites and said overall this all supports the 
CCL rupture was caused by disease not an injury so isnt covered
Our investigator reiterated the claim should be upheld. He said the cause of the CCL rupture 
in 2016 was never diagnosed, so without evidence showing a link between the 2016 claim 
and this claim then he didnt think it fair or reasonable for ETU to turn down the claim.
As ETU didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. Before going ahead, I saw 
that Mr F said he might be able to get a letter from his vets confirming the conditions arent 
linked  so we asked him if he could.
He provided this letter  which said prior to 12 July 2020 theres no record of any clinical 
evidence to suggest pre-existing cruciate disease in the right hind limb  and clinical 
examinations suggests this was an acute condition. 
This was then sent on to ETU. They maintained their decision to turn down the claim was 
right  because this was a bi-lateral condition, so whether there was anything on the right 
hind limb isnt relevant  its that there was a condition on the left hind limb which is the 
reason for the exclusion.
As a result of that, Im going to formally decide the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditions ETU have quoted in support of turning down this claim say:
Bilateral conditions  Where a condition is affecting one body part of which your pet has 
two, one each side of the body (e.g. ears, eyes, keens, cruciate ligaments) this will be 
considered a bilateral condition and when applying the maximum benefit limit or an exclusion 
bilateral conditions are considered as one condition.
Chronic condition  Means any condition that continues indefinitely, or cannot be cured or 
eradicated any that may recur or requires ongoing treatment
Theyve also quoted general conditions  but this says the same as bilateral conditions 
above, so I wont repeat it.
So, I think its clear that the policy terms provide no cover for Mr Fs situation based on a 
strict interpretation of them. But my remit is to decide whether I think ETU have acted fairly 
and reasonably in turning down the claim.Our general approach to bilateral conditions is unless theres evidence that demonstrates 
the first condition led to the second condition  or the second condition was noted as likely 
going to happen at some point in the future at the time of the first condition being diagnosed 
 they should be treated as two independent conditions.
Theres nothing in the vets notes from the first surgery for the left leg in 2016 that theres a 
degenerative condition which might lead to problems with the right leg in future. 
Ive noted ETU have pointed to lameness and osteoarthritis from 2016 onwards. But the 
vets have confirmed that the examination they carried out suggested this was an acute 
issue, and there were no signs of pre-existing cruciate disease in the right hind limb. This is 
contrary to ETUs argument that lameness and osteoarthritis from 2016 onwards would lead 
to degeneration over time.
ETU have provided a lot of general information about CCL ruptures, all of which I understand 
they believe supports their point of view. But Id still need to see enough evidence to show 
me that the reason for the second claim is the same as the first for Mr Fs pet specifically. 
And, as Ive explained above, I havent seen this.
Overall then, I dont think ETU have properly demonstrated the right hind limb issue is as a 
result of the previous left hind limb issue four years earlier  so Ill be upholding this 
complaint. ETU will need to pay back Mr F the cost of the claim and provide him with 8% 
interest for a claim they should have paid in the first instance.
Putting things right
Ill require ETU to reimburse Mr F the costs he paid to the vet for this claim. ETU will also 
need to pay Mr F 8%* interest from the date he paid the vets bills, to the date of settlement 
by ETU.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires ETU to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. ETU must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require ETU Forsikring A/S 
to carry out the actions in the putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman