DRN-1963789
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to decline her claim under her employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M was a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy held with 
L&G. The policy, after a deferred period of 28 weeks, would pay benefit if Ms M were unable 
to perform her occupation because of illness or injury.
In February 2018, Ms M stopped working due to stress and anxiety. She returned to work in 
April 2018.
In March 2019, Ms M again stopped working due to stress and anxiety. Her employer made 
a claim on her behalf under the policy.  
In July 2019, L&G declined the claim. Based on the information it had received, it was not 
persuaded that Ms M was suffering from a medical condition of such severity that it 
prevented her from performing the essential duties of her role. It considered that instead it 
was perceived work-related issues which had caused Ms M to become absent and which 
would continue to prevent her from returning to work unless and until they were resolved.
Ms M complained to L&G about its decision. In September 2019, she also resigned from her 
employment.
L&G considered her complaint despite her resignation as it was potentially liable for Ms Ms 
absence in the period between the end of the deferred period in July 2019 and when she left 
her employment in September 2019. However, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
It noted that Ms M had received a diagnosis confirming she was autistic but it did not 
consider that this showed she was medically prevented from working, particularly as this 
condition had likely been present throughout her life. While it accepted that Ms M suffered 
from anxiety, it continued to feel it was disputes with her employer which had prevented her 
from working and that she was not prevented from performing her role for another employer 
provided suitable reasonable adjustments were in place.
Ms M was unhappy with L&Gs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, it had 
been reasonable for L&G to decline the claim.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings. She considered he showed a complete 
disregard for the impact of autism and she described in detail how it had impacted on her life 
historically and during the period of the claim, in particular by causing her to be anxious. She 
said the diagnosis of this condition in April 2019 had exacerbated this anxiety.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be eligible for benefit, Ms M needed to be prevented by illness or injury from performing 
the essential duties of her occupation throughout the deferred period.
Shortly after Ms M became absent in February 2018, she completed a members statement 
form for L&G. In this, she said her absence was due to intractable anxiety and work-related 
stress. She said her anxiety was an inherent condition which had been present to varying 
degrees all her life. She also said she was pursuing a grievance against her employer 
because it had not put in place reasonable supportive adjustments for her condition after she 
returned to work following an absence a year earlier. 
In April 2018, Ms M reported that to L&G that she was able to start a gradual return to work 
after her employer agreed to put in place the supportive measures which had been agreed 
the year before.
Shortly after Ms M became absent in March 2019, she again completed a members 
statement form for L&G. She said she was absent due to work-related stress and anxiety. 
She described the anxiety symptoms from which she was suffering, which included unable 
to tolerate the incessant criticisms at work, and in response to a question about how often 
she suffered from these symptoms she answered: when work fails to support me.
In April 2019, Ms M underwent an assessment which confirmed she had autism.
In May 2019, L&Gs specialist rehabilitation nurse, Ms I, spoke to Ms M. Ms I noted that 
while there were perceived workplace issues, Ms M displayed clear symptoms of anxiety 
which were having a significant impact. She noted that Ms M had been diagnosed with 
autism. She recommended that Ms M be referred for cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to 
support her in light of her autism diagnosis so that she could make a rational decision about 
her future career and returning to work.
In June 2019, Ms M began CBT with Dr H, a clinical psychologist. Dr H considered that 
Ms M was prevented from working by her symptoms at this time. She recorded that Ms M 
attributed much of her stress and anxiety to what she perceived as poor treatment by her 
employer. Dr H considered that the breakdown in trust towards her employer presented a 
barrier to Ms M returning to work.
In July 2019, Ms I spoke again to Ms M who said she didnt want to return to her job because 
she couldnt cope with it. Based on Ms Ms comments and the other available evidence, Ms I 
concluded that Ms M was absent because of perceived work-related issues and it was these 
issues which were preventing her from returning. Ms I noted Ms Ms autism diagnosis and 
that Ms M believed anxiety was an inherent part of this condition but she pointed out that 
Ms M would have had this condition throughout her life and it hadnt stopped her from 
progressing with her career to this stage. Ms I considered the only thing which had changed 
in Ms Ms life causing her to become absent was the dispute with her employer.
Ms Ms GP continued to certify her as unfit to work and in July 2019 wrote a letter in which 
she said that the autism diagnosis had affected Ms M significantly.  
In November 2019, Dr H wrote a discharge report from the course of CBT. Dr H recorded 
some improvement in Ms Ms levels of depression and anxiety, as well as progress towards 
attainment of the goals which were set at the outset of therapy. However, she didnt comment on Ms Ms fitness for work because Ms M had already by then decided to resign 
from her job.
Ms M has also provided letters from doctors at the autism service where she underwent 
assessment. These confirm that Ms M experiences considerable anxiety around social 
situations and change.
Having taken account of all the evidence, I consider it was fair for L&G to decline Ms Ms 
claim. Ms Ms symptoms meant she was clearly unable to return to her occupation with her 
employer at the time the claim was declined. But the precipitating factor which caused her 
absence, and which had caused previous absences, was her perception that her employer 
was treating her unfairly. And for as long as this perception remained, she would be unable 
to return to her job. This was therefore effectively an employment dispute. Once the dispute 
was resolved, it is likely that Ms Ms symptoms of anxiety would also resolve.
The policy is designed to provide benefit when someone is prevented from performing the 
essential duties of their occupation due to illness or injury. It isnt designed to provide benefit 
pending the outcome of employment disputes. While I accept that Ms M was unable to work 
due to her anxiety, it seems that this was all rooted in her dispute with her employer. If she 
were not working for her employer, there seems nothing to indicate that she was suffering 
from an underlying illness of such severity that its symptoms meant she would be unable to 
perform the essential duties of her occupation.
Ms M has focused much on her autism diagnosis. But I dont consider that this was 
necessarily a significant factor in terms of her claim. The diagnosis just confirmed something 
which had been present throughout Ms Ms life. It might help explain her proneness to 
anxiety but it doesnt, in itself, mean that she was incapacitated. I recognise her GP has 
explained that the diagnosis impacted significantly on Ms M and Ms M has confirmed this. 
Im sorry for Ms M that she is finding it difficult to deal with the diagnosis. However, I 
consider it is more important for the purposes of assessing the claim to consider the severity 
of Ms Ms anxiety symptoms and, as explained above, to decide whether these symptoms 
were due to an illness which affected Ms Ms ability to perform the essential duties of her 
occupation for any employer or whether they were really due to stress arising from the 
dispute with her current employer which could only resolve  and would resolve - with the 
resolution of that dispute. I consider the evidence indicates it is the latter. This being the 
case, while I dont dispute that Ms M was experiencing symptoms which prevented her from 
returning to her current job, I consider it was reasonable for L&G to decline her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman