DRN-3547573
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to recover a faster payment 
he sent in error.
What happened
Mr S says in error he sent an online faster payment for £2,200 to an incorrect payee, and on 
realising his mistake, he immediately contacted Nationwide to urgently recall it. Mr S says 
despite him making a number of telephone calls, web chats and a branch visit, Nationwide 
failed to retrieve the payment and simply told him the receiving bank had 20 days to deal 
with it. 
Mr S says Nationwide could have done more, for example telephoning the receiving bank, 
but it chose not to because of his ethnicity. Mr S says Nationwides delays meant it only 
managed to retrieve 94p and wants it to refund him with the full amount he had sent. 
Nationwide says it has apologised for the fact it hadnt kept Mr S informed of the progress of 
the payment recovery and offered him £75 by way of apology. Nationwide says it correctly 
carried out its process to recover the payment but had only been able to recover 94p and 
says it provided Mr S with details of how he could try to recover the remaining monies. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Nationwide had carried out Mr Ss instruction to retrieve the payment he sent 
in error on the next business day and had dealt with this in the timescales expected. The 
Investigator agreed Nationwide could have communicated the progress of the payment 
recovery, but it had offered £75 as way of an apology, which the investigator felt was fair. 
The investigator pointed out from the information he had seen, part of the reason why 
Nationwide hadnt kept Mr S informed of the progress of the payment recovery, was the 
receiving bank hadnt responded to the dispute until 11 April 2022, even though 94p of the 
amount sent had been recovered some days before. 
The investigator couldnt see there was any evidence to suggest the reason why the funds 
werent retrieved, was due to any discrimination as Nationwide had applied the same 
process it would to all its customers. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to learn a payment he had sent in 
error wasnt able to be recovered by Nationwide. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if Nationwide could have done more to retrieve Mr Ss faster payment from the 
recipient bank and if it had discriminated against Mr S during the recovery process. 
Mr Ss complaint centres around the fact after he realised he had sent a faster payment to 
an incorrect payee, Nationwide didnt act quickly enough to recover the payment. 
Additionally, Mr S says despite him making several phone calls to Nationwide it failed to let 
him know it had only recovered a small amount of the payment he had sent, and it previously 
led him to believe the monies would be recovered or the payees account frozen. Mr S is of 
the view the reason why Nationwide failed to speed up the recovery process was down to 
his ethnicity. 
The first thing to say here is Nationwide werent directly involved in the faster payment Mr S 
sent, that was a genuine mistake he made, which was unfortunate. In those circumstances I 
would expect Nationwide, once being told of the error, to have instigated its recovery 
process. From the information I have seen, Mr S informed Nationwide of this on Saturday 12 
March 2022, a non-business day, and it began its internal process that day and instigated 
the payment recovery on Monday 14 March 2022, the next working day. So, I cant say 
Nationwide took longer to start the process than I would expect. 
Its worth saying, Nationwide would then be reliant on the beneficiary bank to take action 
here, but that would require the recipient bank contacting its customer for their 
authority/agreement to return the monies. It seems in this case unfortunately that wasnt 
possible as the funds had, apart from a modest sum, already been spent. The investigator 
provided Mr S with comprehensive details of the process that banks and building societies 
like Nationwide follow in these circumstances, which Mr S accepts but still feels Nationwide 
could have shown more urgency than it did.  
So, although Mr S feels Nationwide could have done more to speed up the payment 
recovery, Im not persuaded by Mr Ss argument here as Nationwide needed to allow the 
process to be followed through, allowing the recipient bank sufficient time to contact its 
customer. I know Mr S feels strongly that Nationwide didnt act sooner or with more urgency 
and this was down to his ethnicity. While I was sorry to see Mr S feels that way, I have seen 
no evidence to support his view and I am satisfied Nationwide have simply carried out the 
same process it would to all its customers in these circumstances.  
I understand Mr S feels Nationwide could have refunded the money itself if it wanted to, but 
here as the transfer wasnt down to an error on the part of the business, theres no obligation 
on it to refund the payment itself. All it can do is ask the receiving bank to request a refund 
from the person who received it and it did that as quickly as possible. 
I can also see that Nationwide provided Mr S with a letter on 12 April 2022 where it provided 
him with the option to pursue an alternative course of action subject to his written consent, 
which is what I would have expected to happen here, but I cant see that Mr S has taken this 
any further.
I do understand Mr S feels Nationwide led him to believe the recipients bank account would 
be frozen, giving him hope that the monies might be returned. I have read the transcript of 
the telephone call, and while the agent could have been a little clearer on that point, the 
agent goes on to explain it was ultimately up to the recipient customer to send the money 
back to him. With that in mind, I am satisfied Nationwide made it clear to Mr S it was down to 
the recipient to return the monies.
Like the investigator I agree Nationwide did have more than one opportunity to let Mr S know a small part of the payment had been recovered, but in all likelihood it was waiting to hear 
from the recipient bank to contact them. That said Nationwide accepted, given the 
importance to Mr S of the issue, it could have provided a better service and offered Mr S £75 
by way of apology, which I am satisfied is a reasonable offer. Its fair to say even if it had told 
Mr S the part refund had been credited to his bank account, it wouldnt have altered the 
outcome here.
I can understand the frustration and upset this matter has caused Mr S, but I cant say that 
Nationwide were at fault here, for the reasons I have already given. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here. I will leave it with Mr S to contact Nationwide if he now wishes to accept the 
compensation payment it offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman