DRN-3368903
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was charged £3 by PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay 
Solutions (Prepay) and also complains about how his complaint was dealt with.
What happened
Mr C says he deposited money into his Prepay account via a business I will call P in 
August 2021. He says he was charged a fee of £3 and that fee hadnt been made clear to 
him when he opened the account or deposited the money. Mr C says he asked Prepay 
about the fee and why it had Ps symbol on his account card. He says Prepay didnt respond 
or answer his questions and would like the £3 refunded.
Prepay says Mr C deposited money into his account on 14 August 2021. It says its account 
terms and conditions make clear that a fee of £3 is charged in these circumstances and so 
hasnt made a mistake. It also says it replied to Mr Cs complaint on 16 August 2021 and told 
him why the fee was charged. Prepay says it gave Mr C a more detailed response on 28 
September 2021 and sent him its final response letter in October 2021.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought the fee was charged in line with account terms and conditions but thought the 
charge wasnt easy to find. The investigator thought Prepay ought to have answered Mr Cs 
complaint far sooner and recommended it pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
he was caused.
Prepay doesnt accept that view and says its fee charges are made clear and says £100 
compensation isnt proportionate for a £3 fee. It accepts there was a delay and says it will 
offer £20 compensation.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case and make clear to Mr C that there has been a 
name change since that decision. 
I came to the provisional view that I didnt uphold the main part of this complaint and didnt 
think the delay in Prepay sending its final response letter justified compensation of £100.
I made clear to the parties that normally complaint handling complaints are not always 
complaints that we can look at. But in this case, I said I was satisfied that the delay 
complaint was linked to Mr Cs main complaint and on that basis, I was satisfied that we 
could look at both matters.
I appreciated Mr C says he was unaware of the charge. But I looked at the account terms 
and conditions which I thought Mr C would have agreed to when the account was opened 
and could see they made clear that a charge of £3 would be made in certain circumstances. 
I didnt think that term and condition was difficult to find and was satisfied it was clear. So, I 
didnt think Prepay made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging Mr C the £3 fee in these 
circumstances and was satisfied it was applied in line with agreed terms and conditions. I 
also didnt think having Ps symbol on the account card made any difference and didnt think 
that would mislead customers into thinking a charge didnt apply. I made clear that I would 
have expected Mr C to have read the account terms and conditions.
I could see from Prepays records that it did reply to the main part of Mr Cs complaint on 16 
August 2021 and told him why the fee was applied. I could see that it was clear at that stage 
Mr C was aware he could bring a complaint to us if he wished. I accepted that Mr C sent a 
number of messages to Prepay that were not answered before he received a more detailed 
response at the end of September. I was satisfied that response dealt with what I thought 
was the main complaint point namely the charge. I also saw that Prepay sent Mr C its final 
response in October 2021.
I appreciated what the investigator said that a complaint could have been logged earlier and 
that messages could have been replied to. But was satisfied that Prepay made clear to Mr C 
within two days of his complaint why the charge was made. And I didnt think provisionally a 
delay in sending the final response letter or not providing a more detailed response would 
have led to any distress, just what I think would be some limited inconvenience. I didnt think 
such a delay justified £100 compensation and thought even if Prepay had provided a more 
detailed response that Mr C wouldnt have accepted it in any event. And such a response 
would only expand on the reasons why the £3 charge was made.
My provisional view was that Prepay made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £20 
for what I thought was relatively minor inconvenience over a relatively moderate £3 charge.
Mr C doesnt accept my provisional view and in summary says there was a significant impact 
caused by Prepays actions which has a wider effect on other customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same decision that I reached in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. I have made clear that I think Mr C ought reasonably to have 
been aware of the charge, correctly made in line with agreed account terms and conditions. 
And that Mr C was told within two days why the charge was made. I make clear to Mr C that 
I can only consider this complaint and not any wider concerns he may have about Prepay 
and its other customers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find that PrePay 
Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. Mr Cs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman