DRN-4160497
The complaint
Mr J and Miss J are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited recorded a claim against the 
buildings insurance element of their home insurance policy. Theyve said they made it clear 
they didnt want to make a claim in this respect.
What happened
Mr J and Miss J held a home insurance policy with Aviva. In October 2020 they let Aviva 
know their property had been broken into. They said that the front door was forced whilst 
they hadnt been home, and various items had been taken. Mr J and Miss J said there was 
some damage to the front door, and some built-in wardrobes. 
Aviva appointed a specialist to come and look at the front door. But Mr J and Miss J have 
said they made it clear to Aviva that they didnt want this specialist to do any work to the 
door. This was because Mr J and Miss J had an extended warranty with the company who 
originally fitted the door, and they didnt want to this to be invalidated by a different company 
working on the item.
Following this, Mr J and Miss J said they also made it clear to Aviva that they didnt want any 
claim logged in respect of the buildings element of their insurance policy. They just wanted 
to progress with a claim for the loss in respect of their home contents. But. Mr J and Miss J 
said this wasnt what happened. 
Instead, Mr J and Miss J said a claim appeared to have been registered in relation to 
buildings insurance. Mr and Miss J have said this had an impact on their insurance premium 
from its renewal in 2021 through to 2023. And they felt this was unfair, given they hadnt 
wanted to claim under the buildings element of the policy.
Aviva provided a final response to Mr J and Miss Js concerns. The final response focused 
on delays in progression of the claim overall. But, in reference to the buildings insurance 
element of the claim, Aviva asked who repaired the front door, and whether there were any 
costs Mr J and Miss J incurred, so this can be reimbursed to them. And whether there was a 
repairer for the built-in cupboards. If not, Aviva said it could a contractor to assess these.
Mr J and Miss J didnt feel this adequately addressed their concerns about the buildings 
insurance element of the loss, given they hadnt wanted a buildings insurance claim. So, 
they referred the matter to this service for an independent review.
As the matter referred to us was only in relation to Mr J and Miss Js concerns about any 
record on their buildings insurance, this was what our investigator considered.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. They said it was reasonable for 
Aviva to record the visit that took place to assess the damage to the front door. Our 
investigator said this was because neither Mr nor Miss J had told Aviva they didnt want the 
door assessed before the visit took place. And it was accurate to record that a visit had 
occurred. 
Our investigator said Aviva had now closed the buildings claim down, and not logged a claim 
against it. So, this wouldnt affect Mr and Miss Js renewal premiums going forward.
In addition to this, our investigator acknowledged that it was only recently the buildings 
element of the claim was closed down. But they thought that was fair. They said whilst Mr J 
and Miss J had told Aviva they didnt want to claim for the front door, they hadnt told Aviva 
that they didnt want to claim for the damaged built-in cupboards until recently. And as those 
cupboards would have needed to be dealt with under the buildings section of the policy, it 
was fair for Aviva to keep this part of the claim open, until it knew what was happening with 
it.
Mr J and Miss J didnt agree. They maintained their position that nothing should be logged in 
respect of buildings insurance.
As Mr J and Miss J didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on requiring Aviva to pay Mr J and Miss J £100 compensation. I 
dont intend of requiring it to do anything more than that. Ive explained why below. 
Recording a claim
Mr J and Miss J say Aviva shouldnt log any claim for a buildings insurance loss on their 
records. 
I thought carefully about this, but I dont agree. Mr J and Miss J did suffer a loss in terms of 
the buildings element of their policy, and they did initially claim for this. 
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Js initial call with Aviva. Mr J told Aviva that the property 
had been broken into, and the front door to the property was damaged, as was a built-in 
wardrobe. As Mr J reported these items it was reasonable for Aviva to consider that Mr J and 
Miss J were claiming for these. And during the call, when Aviva said it would appoint a 
specialist to visit and review the door, Mr J didnt say they didnt want to claim for the loss.
Avivas specialist came and reviewed the door, as I would have expected it to do. And when 
Mr J told Aviva that him and Miss J wanted their own contractor to complete any work on the 
door, Aviva said it could offer a cash settlement for this part of the loss. 
It wasnt until 14 December 2020 that Mr J and Miss J told Aviva that they didnt want to 
claim under the buildings insurance element of their policy at all. 
As Mr J and Miss J had initially claimed under the buildings element of their policy, I think its 
fair a buildings claim is detailed. Aviva has shown me that the buildings element of the claim 
is now logged as withdrawn and closed. This is an accurate record of what happened. Mr J 
and Miss J did initially raise a claim, and then decided not to pursue it. So, Im not intending 
on requiring Aviva to change the way it has now recorded the claim. 
Delay in withdrawing the claim
I am aware however, that Aviva didnt withdraw the buildings element of the claim as soon 
as Mr J and Miss J told them they didnt want to pursue the buildings claim, on 14 December 2020. Its my understanding that it wasnt until more recently that the claim was logged as 
closed in this way.
Mr J and Miss J had to reiterate to Aviva that they werent claiming for this part of the loss. In 
Avivas final response letter, it asked Mr J and Miss J about the front door and built-in 
wardrobes, so it could deal with these elements of the claim. But seeing as Mr J and Miss J 
had already explained they wouldnt be claiming here  I can see how this would have been 
frustrating. The part of the claim should already have been withdrawn.
Whilst Mr J and Miss J hadnt expressly said they didnt want to claim for the built-in 
cupboards, and didnt want a cash settlement for the door, I dont think they specifically 
needed to. In noting they werent claiming for the buildings element of the loss I think it was 
clear this wasnt being pursued. 
As Im satisfied Aviva has now recorded the claim correctly, Ive needed to think about 
whether theres anything else it should do to resolve this complaint.
I do think it would be fair for Aviva to provide Mr J and Miss J with £100 compensation for its 
failure to withdraw the buildings element of the claim in December 2020. Mr J and Miss J 
have explained how frustrated they were about this, and how worried they were about the 
effect it would have been having on their premiums. Im satisfied compensation of £100 fairly 
recognises this trouble and upset. So, I intend on requiring Aviva to pay this. 
Mr J and Miss J have said they suffered an increase in premiums at each renewal, because 
of an open buildings insurance claim. I understand that Mr J and Miss J had made a 
contents claim too  and that was open, which would also have been affecting their 
premiums. So, Im not satisfied it was solely the delay in withdrawing the buildings element 
of the claim that was causing an additional increase in premium in this case.
But in any event, its my understanding that Aviva has now recalculated Mr J and Miss Js 
insurance premiums for each policy year, to ensure that the premiums reflect that they didnt 
pursue a buildings claim any further. 
Aviva has explained it provided a refund of £94.76 for the renewal in 2021, nothing for 2022 
and £149.40 in 2023. Mr J and Miss J havent said the updated 2021 and 2023 renewal 
figures are wrong. And I havent seen anything to evidence to suggest to me that theyre 
incorrect. And in relation to the 2022 policy renewal, Aviva has shown me that there were no 
extra costs attached to the premium because of an open buildings insurance claim. So, I 
dont think there is anything further it needs to do in respect of that policy year either.
Aviva responded and accepted the provisional decision. Mr and Miss J responded and 
provided a log of calls from their phone provider to evidence calls made to Aviva. And they 
said they did recall saying they didnt want the front door assessed prior to the door 
specialists visit. 
In addition, Mr J and Miss J reiterated they only claimed on the extended warranty with the 
company that had originally fitted the front door. They noted that it was clear they didnt want 
the Avivas door specialist to carry out any work, as well as that they didnt make a claim and 
then withdraw it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided the £100 compensation to Mr J and Miss B. But I dont require 
it to do anything more than that.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. So, my decision remains the same as that in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Mr and Miss J maintain they didnt make a claim under the buildings element of their policy. 
But, having listened to the initial calls Mr J and Miss J had with Aviva, as well as call notes, I 
remain satisfied that it was fair for Aviva to log a claim for Mr J and Miss J initially. The 
further information Mr and J have sent doesnt alter this.
When Mr J and Miss J raised their claim with Aviva, they did note they had suffered a loss of 
items that would be considered part of the building  Ive listened to the call recording where 
this is noted.
 
And whilst Mr J and Miss J did tell Aviva they didnt want Avivas specialist to carry out the 
work to front door, another valid method of settling that element of the loss would have been 
a cash settlement  which I can see Aviva was prepared to do. I remain satisfied that it 
wasnt until 14 December 2020 that Mr J and Miss J made it clear they didnt want to claim 
for the buildings element of their loss, including the internal built-in cupboards. So, Im 
satisfied its accurate and fair for the buildings claim to be noted as withdrawn and closed. 
It would however be useful to add, that as part of the investigation into this case, this service 
asked the body that oversees the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE), what was recorded 
for the buildings element of the claim. This is where an external record of any claim would 
be stored. It responded to this service recently and following my provisional decision. This 
service was informed that there wasnt a buildings claim currently logged on the database, 
for the above burglary. 
As detailed in my provisional decision, Aviva has shown me that it has recorded the 
buildings element of the loss recorded as closed and withdrawn. So, Im aware it may 
appear on CUE in that way, in the future. As detailed my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that way of recording the claim is fair. So, I dont have anything further to add than what was 
contained in my provisional decision. My decision remains the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr J and Miss J £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to them, for the reasons noted above. 
I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more than that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman