DRN-2890276
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has recorded late payment markers on her 
credit file. She said she received no notification from Barclays that she owed it money, and 
she believed the card debt had been cleared. 
What happened
Miss B said that she thought a payment shed made to Barclays in February 2020 had 
cleared her credit card debt. But she found out later it hadnt. Two payments had been made 
on this card. Miss B told us she didnt know that the seller was using the details for this card, 
and she wasnt aware that this card had been charged. So she owed Barclays money, and 
she said that by the time she found out about this, shed missed five payments on the 
account. 
Miss B said she didnt get anything from Barclays to tell her about this, no statements or 
letters about overdue payments. Miss B said this issue had affected her credit file, and she 
only found out about it when she checked her file. 
Miss B said that the last statement she received was 14 December 2019. After that she 
hadnt heard anything from Barclays until she rang it in August 2020. Miss B said she 
contacted Barclays then, after shed realised there were marks on her credit file, and tried to 
pay. But it wouldnt let her do so. 
Miss B said that after this, Barclays suddenly started to write to her about her debt. She said 
that it was Barclays fault shed missed the payments, because it hadnt been in touch with 
her, and now this meant she wasnt able to get a mortgage. Miss B wanted Barclays to 
accept its mistake, and remove the negative markers from her credit file.
Barclays didnt think it had made a mistake. It said Miss Bs statement dated 12 December 
2019 asked for payment by 13 January 2020. There was no payment made, but Miss B used 
the card again before her 14 January 2020 statement. That statement said her payment was 
overdue. Her statement dated 13 February 2020 again confirmed Barclays hadnt received a 
payment. 
Barclays said it sent Miss B a notice of arrears on 14 February 2020. That said Miss Bs card 
was blocked, she must pay £10 and Barclays was reducing her credit limit. Miss B paid £10 
on 20 February 2020. But she didnt pay again after that. 
Barclays said it sent Miss B payment reminders by email and letter, as well as messages 
telling her the payment was overdue on each monthly statement. She didnt pay, and 
Barclays decided to close her account. Miss B then contacted Barclays on 12 August. A 
default notice was sent to her, dated 14 August 2020 asking for £30 to be paid by 14 
September 2020. A payment was received on 19 August 2020, so the account didnt default, 
but late payment markers had been registered on her account.
Barclays said it had sent Miss B SMS alerts, statements by email, and letters telling her that 
her account was in arrears. It wouldnt make any changes to her credit file. 
Barclays also said it hadnt made it difficult for Miss B to pay off the debt when she rang. It 
had offered to take a debit card payment over the phone, she just didnt have a debit card 
with her. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays had been 
trying to get in touch with Miss B, and it had been using the right email address. Our 
investigator thought that Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably, and she said she wouldnt ask 
it to amend Miss Bs credit file. 
Miss B didnt agree. She was adamant that she hadnt received any alerts or emails, and 
said if shed known that she still owed money on the card, shed have paid it. She stressed 
that it was a small amount, and said shed had an impeccable credit file before this.
Our investigator asked Barclays if it would amend Miss Bs credit file as a gesture of 
goodwill, but it said it wouldnt. It said data reported to the credit reference agencies has to 
be accurate, so it cant be changed solely on a goodwill basis. Barclays said Miss B had 
changed her mobile number, so may not have been getting SMS alerts, but it was her 
responsibility to keep her details up to date. And Barclays had been using the same email 
address to contact her as Miss B had given our service. Barclays said that it had also written 
to her, and her address on file hadnt changed for some years. 
Miss B said she hadnt changed her mobile number, and she still thought that something had 
gone wrong at Barclays, which meant it hadnt got in touch. Our investigator didnt change 
her mind. She said that Miss B had told us initially that she had received her December 2019 
statement. But Miss B hadnt paid again until February 2020, when she only paid £10, and 
didnt check that was enough to clear her balance. 
Miss B was very unhappy with this. Because Miss B and our investigator didnt agree, this 
case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this complaint. Ill explain 
why I think that.
Miss B said that when she contacted Barclays in August, she asked to pay off the amount 
she owed, but she was told she was unable to make a payment over the phone, and the call 
handler refused to provide her with the payment details. 
Barclays has sent our service a recording of this call. I can hear that Barclays did offer to 
take a payment over the phone. Although Barclays wasnt able to take a payment from 
someone elses card, the problem appeared to be that Miss B didnt have her debit card with 
her. I can hear that Miss B was offered a number of different ways to pay, so I dont think 
that Barclays sought to make this difficult for her. I dont think that this part of Miss Bs 
complaint should be upheld.
Barclays has told us it was writing to Miss B, and sending her electronic statements, during 
the time that she missed payments. I dont know if Miss B was getting SMS alerts. But I havent seen anything to make me think that these communications werent sent, and I think 
the letters and emails were sent to the physical address and email address that Miss B had 
given Barclays. So I think Barclays did do what I would expect, to let Miss B know that she 
needed to make a payment.
Miss B has told our service that she received no correspondence from Barclays after her 
December statement. But I think that there are two problems with what Miss B has told us. 
The first is that our service does expect people to keep an eye on their accounts. That can 
include getting in touch with the bank, if statements arent received. So even if statements 
had gone astray, I wouldnt necessarily say that it was solely Barclays responsibility that any 
payments which were then due, werent made. 
And the second is that Miss B has told us that she received her December 2019 statement. 
That statement said she needed to make a payment. So its then not clear why she made no 
payment until February 2020. I would expect that her credit file would already have been 
affected at this point. 
I also note that Barclays wrote to Miss B on 14 February 2020 to say that she needed to 
make a payment of £10 immediately to cover the arrears. And Miss B paid £10 on 20 
February. I know that Miss B told us she just remembered about the card during that month, 
and made a payment. But because Miss B paid £10, exactly the amount that Barclays had 
just asked her to pay, I dont think I can be confident that none of Barclays correspondence 
was received. 
However, even if I was able to decide that none of Barclays correspondence was received, 
Ive explained that I dont think that Barclays has failed to send this correspondence. And, 
because Miss B could tell from her December 2019 statement that she still owed money, 
then I think she reasonably ought to have been expecting that correspondence. 
So I dont think that what has gone wrong here, and ended up affecting Miss Bs credit file, is 
solely Barclays fault. 
I know that there was never a large sum of money owed to Barclays. I appreciate that Miss B 
is deeply frustrated by what has happened, and I understand why she says that the impact 
on her and her partner of these negative markers on her credit file is out of all proportion to 
the amount owed. But that, in itself, isnt a justification for asking Barclays to remove these 
missed payment markers, if they are a true reflection of the conduct of this account.
Considering all of the evidence we have, Im sorry to have to tell Miss B that I dont think 
there are grounds here for me to ask Barclays to remove the negative markers that it has 
placed on Miss Bs credit file. I do understand the impact this is now having with other 
lenders, but I am only looking here at what Barclays has done. And I dont think that 
Barclays has been unreasonable or unfair. So, although I understand how very disappointed 
Miss B will be by this, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman