DRN-2802190
The complaint
Mr Y complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt action his request to 
withdraw his funds when they said they would, which led to him receiving a lower interest 
rate on a new account. 
What happened
NS&I told Mr Y they were reducing their interest rates. Because of this, Mr Y asked to close 
his account and transfer his money to a different provider who were offering a higher rate. 
Mr Y contacted NS&I on 24 November 2020 to make this transaction. They told him hed 
receive the funds by 27 November 2020. 
When Mr Y hadnt received his money, he contacted NS&I on 28 November. They told him 
the member of staff he spoke to hadnt completed the process as they shouldve, so his 
payment was delayed until 30 November 2020. 
Mr Y complained to NS&I about the delay. He said the account he wanted to move his funds 
to had reduced their interest rate from 1.5% to 0.75% during the time it took to get the funds 
from NS&I, so hed lost out as a result of the delay. 
NS&I sent Mr Y their final response in December 2020. They apologised for the delay and 
offered Mr Y £40 compensation for the inconvenience. 
Unhappy with this, Mr Y brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr Y. They said the account Mr Y wanted to move his funds to had already 
reduced the interest rate by 27 November. So, they didnt think Mr Y had lost out as a result 
of the delay, and the £40 NS&I had offered for the inconvenience was fair. 
Mr Y didnt agree. He says if hed gotten his money when NS&I told him he would, hed have 
been able to shop around at other providers for a better rate, even if the one hed initially 
seen was no longer available. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that NS&I shouldve made the transfer to Mr Y sooner. So, Ive gone on to 
consider the effect this delay had on Mr Y. 
Mr Y has provided details from the account he wanted to transfer his funds to when he first 
decided to close the account with NS&I. This document shows that the account Mr Y had 
selected had already reduced its interest rate to 0.75% by 27 November. So, Im satisfied 
that even if NS&I had completed the transfer when they said they would, Mr Y wouldnt have 
been able to secure the higher rate. 
Mr Y has also provided evidence of an account which he invested some other funds in and 
says if hed had the money from NS&I on time, he couldve earned 0.85% interest with this 
account. The document provided shows that Mr Y couldve opened this account up to 23:59 
on 30 November 2020. As Mr Y received his funds from NS&I on that day, Im satisfied that 
he had the opportunity to secure this rate had he wished to do so. 
Mr Y says hes sure he couldve received a higher rate from elsewhere if hed been able to 
shop around on 27 November. I cant say for sure what rate Mr Y may have been able to 
earn on his funds elsewhere if theyd been transferred to him on the date he expected. But I 
havent seen any evidence that this wouldve been higher than the rate that he was 
eventually able to secure. 
I appreciate that the delay was frustrating for Mr Y, he had to call NS&I on a number of 
occasions to resolve the matter, and he lost the opportunity to shop around for a better rate 
for the three days that NS&I delayed in sending him his funds. 
All things considered, I find the total sum of £40 paid by NS&I is, in the round, sufficient 
compensation for the inconvenience experienced by Mr Y. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that National Savings and Investments 
existing payment of £40 to Mr Y is a fair way to resolve the complaint and I dont require it to 
take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman