DRN-3855794
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) handled his 
request for help to recover his money following his cancellation of a holiday apartment. 
At times during the lifetime of this complaint Mr D has been represented by his wife. But for 
ease of reading Ill refer to Mr D throughout this decision. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr D used his American Express credit card to pay for a holiday apartment for 
him and his family. He used a booking agent, who Ill refer to as B, to facilitate the booking 
and paid the full amount of £630.55. The stay was scheduled for a week in August 2021. 
A week before he was due to travel, Mr D checked the details of the apartment again. At this 
point he noticed an update that had been given by the supplier of the apartment (the Host) 
which confirmed the pool at the apartment had been drained as a precaution because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr D hadnt noticed this at the time he made his booking, and he 
emailed the Host to explain that a usable pool was a key reason why the booking was made. 
As the pool wasnt going to be available, Mr D cancelled the booking and asked for a refund. 
The Host responded and wouldnt provide a refund. He said that the price of the apartment 
had been reduced to take account of the pool being out of use, and it was clearly explained 
in the description that the pool had been drained. 
Mr D got in contact with American Express and asked for their help to recover his money. He 
provided his evidence to them at this time, and American Express raised a chargeback on 
his behalf. They temporarily credited his account with the full amount too, while B were given 
the opportunity to consider the chargeback. B defended the chargeback  they said Mr D 
hadnt followed the correct cancellation procedure and wasnt entitled to a refund. American 
Express re-debited the full amount from Mr Ds credit card and asked Mr D if he had any 
further information to allow American Express to challenge the declinature. Mr D did provide 
further information and, once the cancellation date had been confirmed, American Express 
said that he was entitled to a 50% refund, minus Bs service fee as a booking agent, as per 
the terms and conditions. They credited Mr Ds account with £269.60.
Mr D wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint to American Express. He maintained that 
the Host, via B, had misrepresented the amenities at the apartment and he felt he should be 
entitled to a full refund as a result of this. American Express responded and didnt uphold his 
complaint. They explained they were satisfied the correct amount had been credited back to 
Mr D in line with the terms and conditions hed agreed to. They also explained that they 
couldnt look at a Section 75 (s75) claim for Mr D as the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement wasnt in place. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said she was 
satisfied American Express had raised the chargeback correctly and applied the correct 
credit to Mr Ds account, having considered the applicable terms and conditions. She didnt 
think the lack of a usable pool had been misrepresented by the Host, via B. Regarding the 
s75 claim, our investigator agreed with American Express that the DCS agreement wasnt in 
place. She also said it didnt seem as though the required cash price had been reached if a 
s75 claim was raised against B as opposed to the Host. 
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained that the amenities at the apartment had been 
misrepresented and he wanted a full refund. He also said that American Expresss customer 
service hadnt been what hed expected. Our investigator responded to this to say she hadnt 
seen that the customer service had been lacking. She said Mr D had raised his chargeback 
claim in August 2021 and had received the credit in October 2021. She didnt think this was 
an unreasonable amount of time and said she wouldnt be asking American Express to do 
anything more. 
As Mr D didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are settled between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances the process provides a way 
for American Express to ask for a payment Mr D made to be refunded. Those circumstances 
can include where a refund hasnt been provided. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
Alternatively, or in addition to a chargeback, a bank can go on to consider whether there has 
been a breach of contract (or misrepresentation) under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific agreement between the parties, known as the DCS agreement and that the 
purchase meets a certain cash price. 
It's important to note that neither a chargeback nor s75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first before considering whether a valid claim exists under s75. Usually, it 
wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as the bank acts fairly 
and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
In Mr Ds case American Express did raise a chargeback against B for him when he got in 
touch with them in August 2021. While B were considering it, American Express temporarily 
credited his account with the full amount hed paid. B defended the chargeback. They 
provided information to American Express to show that Mr D hadnt followed the correct 
cancellation procedure  he hadnt cancelled the booking through B  and therefore he wasnt entitled to a refund. American Express debited the amount from Mr Ds credit card 
following Bs defence and asked him if he had any additional evidence he could provide to 
help them decide if the chargeback could be represented. At that point, American Express 
didnt have the date Mr D cancelled his booking with the Host on record, and they asked 
Mr D to provide that too. 
Mr Ds terms and conditions for cancelling his contract with B explained that he would be 
entitled to a 50% refund of the total amount (if that had been paid) if the cancellation was 
requested seven full days prior to his agreed check-in time with the Host. Any refund would 
not include Bs service fee. Mr D provided the email that he sent to cancel the booking to the 
Host, and it was sent seven full days prior to the check-in time. Because of that, American 
Express credited his account with £269.60  Bs service fee was £91.34 as per Mr Ds 
booking confirmation, and the credit applied by American Express was 50% of the remaining 
amount that had been paid by Mr D.
American Express have confirmed that they gave Mr D a credit adjustment for this amount, 
rather than raise it as a defence to the original chargeback. They felt Mr D hadnt followed 
the cancellation requirements outlined in Bs terms and conditions, and they felt it was 
possible the chargeback may not have succeeded had they represented it with the 
information they had. I can understand their reasoning here, as the terms and conditions do 
require Mr D to inform B of his desire to cancel any booking, rather than the Host directly. 
So, I think American Express have acted fairly by processing Mr Ds refund as a credit 
adjustment. I dont think hes been prejudiced in this case by American Express not 
representing the chargeback and taking a decision themselves to credit him the refund that 
he would have been entitled to had he followed Bs requirements for cancellation. Even if 
American Express had represented the chargeback and it hadnt been defended again by B, 
Mr D wouldnt have been entitled to any more than American Express have credited him.
Mr D believes he should be entitled to a full refund as he believes the amenities at the 
apartment were misrepresented to him. But I dont agree with him here. Whilst I accept the 
pool is listed as a feature at the apartment, it is also clearly stated directly underneath this 
that it had been drained as a precaution for the Covid-19 pandemic. So, it follows that it 
wouldnt be available. Because of that, and because Im satisfied this information was 
available to Mr D at the time he went ahead with the booking, I dont think the availability of 
the pool was misrepresented to him when making his booking. Its regrettable that it wasnt 
noticed at the time the booking was made, but I dont think that was caused by a lack of 
clarity about the availability of the pool for the dates hed requested to stay.
American Express have said they couldnt consider a claim under s75 as the necessary DCS 
agreement isnt in place. Our investigator has agreed with that. As Im satisfied that 
American Express have credited Mr D correctly through the chargeback process and their 
own decision to process a credit for him, I havent gone on to consider the s75 element any 
further when making my decision. 
Mr D has also said that he was unhappy with the customer service American Express had 
given to him during the claim process. But I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
think they hadnt dealt with his request as they should. Mr D got in touch with American 
Express in August 2021 to raise his request, and he received the credit back in his account 
in October 2021. Im satisfied thats a reasonable amount of time, considering B had to be 
given time to defend the chargeback if they wished, which they did, and that additional 
information was also needed from Mr D following that.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D as he feels hes out of pocket 
through no fault of his own. But as Ive explained, Im satisfied American Express have acted 
reasonably when dealing with his request for help. I wont be asking them to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman