DRN-3359085
The complaint
The executor of Mrs Hs estate has complained about the lifetime mortgage with 
The Prudential Life Assurance Company Limited Mr and Mrs H were sold in 2008 and the 
drawdowns paid out in 2012 and 2018. She considers the lending was irresponsible due to 
Mr and Mrs Hs health at the times of the first two advances and Mrs Hs health at the time of 
the third. In the latter case, shes told us the advance affected Mrs Hs ability to obtain 
assistance with the cost of care.
The executor is also unhappy about Prudentials initial approach to the interest accrued 
during the Covid-19 pandemic. While Prudential agreed to reduce the interest added to the 
mortgage during this period, the executor doesnt think the reduction was enough. In 
addition, she is unhappy about the timescales involved in dealing with the complaint and in 
responding to correspondence.
What happened
I issued on 8 March 2022 a decision setting out our jurisdiction in relation to this complaint. 
In that document I set out, with reasoning, why I had concluded that we were only able to 
consider part of the estates complaint. That part being the matter of whether the initial 
mortgage advance and further drawdowns were lent irresponsibly due to Mr and Mrs Hs 
health at the various times. As such, I have only documented below the evidence relating to 
that part of the complaint. 
In early 2008 Mr and Mrs H met with an adviser from Prudential and a lifetime mortgage was 
arranged. It was recorded at the time that Mr and Mrs H had bought a car the previous year 
from their savings and this had depleted the savings to a level that Mr and Mrs H werent 
comfortable with. They wanted money to increase their savings balance to £5,000, cover the 
cost of replacing some windows at the rear of their home and put in an en-suite bathroom. In 
addition, they wanted to cover the cost of a trip they were planning to visit relatives abroad. 
When taking fees for the advice into account, they wanted £25,000.
At that time Mr and Mrs H owned their own home outright and were retired. Options were 
discussed to raise the funds wanted, but they werent interested in conventional borrowing 
as they didnt want to commit to a monthly payment to the debt. They also didnt want to 
move and didnt want to put their plans on hold. It was confirmed that Mr and Mrs H only had 
£2,000 left in savings, which wasnt enough to do what they wanted, and they didnt want to 
deplete that money. They also confirmed that they werent eligible for a local authority grant 
to fund the home improvements, as they were deemed to be cosmetic, rather than essential. 
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs H werent willing to alter their lifestyle in order to create a surplus 
income that could be used to provide for their needs. They were quoted as saying Best 
option for us as we do not want to move and seems a safe option. The house has increased 
in value in the last 10 year so why not use it.
Mr and Mrs H also said that they wanted the option to borrow more in the future, because 
they wanted to be able to gift their daughter the deposit for her own home. In light of this, the 
maximum amount they could borrow against their home was calculated - £52,800. It was 
recommended that the difference between that sum and the £25,000 Mr and Mrs H needed 
immediately was placed in a cash reserve facility, from which they could draw additional 
funds whenever they were needed and no interest would be charged in the meantime. 
It was highlighted that the mortgage would affect the amount Mr and Mrs H would leave their 
daughter as an inheritance. The adviser recommended that they discuss the mortgage with 
their family and close friends before deciding to accept the recommendation. Mr and Mrs H 
said that they had discussed their plans with their daughter, and she was reported as having 
said that she felt they should do what they wanted with their own assets. However, despite 
that sentiment, Mr and Mrs H opted to guarantee that at least 20% of the original property 
value would be left to their estate after the mortgage was repaid.
It was also explained to Mr and Mrs H that the equity release might affect their ability to 
claim state benefits. The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs H contact various 
government departments and charities to ensure that there was no help for them to fund 
their plans and that it wouldnt impact on possible state benefits and their tax situation. It was 
recorded that Mr and Mrs H had declined to look into how the mortgage would affect state 
benefits because their income was such that they had been told in the past that they 
wouldnt qualify for any means tested benefits.
A key facts document was produced to help explain the mortgage to Mr and Mrs H. This set 
out how the lifetime mortgage worked  that the interest would roll-up onto the debt and the 
mortgage was designed to be repaid when the property was sold. It was documented that 
there was an early repayment charge (ERC)if the mortgage was paid off within the first 19 
years unless this happened because of death or a move to long-term care. Figures were 
given for how much would be owed under the mortgage for the first 19 years along with 
examples of how much the ERC could be at different points. Under the section titled risks it 
was documented:
Taking out this lifetime mortgage may affect your ability to claim social security benefits and 
your tax position. If you are worried about this and need further information you should 
contact the Benefits Agency, Citizens Advice Bureau or HM Revenue and Customs. 
The mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs H on 18 March 2008 again set out how the mortgage 
worked, including the interest roll-up, and gave detailed information about how much 
Mr and Mrs H would owe at the beginning and end of each of the first 19 years. It was shown 
that by 2020 the £25,000 borrowed would have increased to a debt of over £56,000. The 
same warning about eligibility for state benefits as above was included in the risks section of 
the offer document. 
Mr and Mrs H were required to receive independent legal advice before they accepted the 
mortgage offer. A copy of the offer was sent directly to their nominated solicitors. Following 
meeting with Mr and Mrs H, the solicitor confirmed that it had explained the terms and 
effects of the lifetime mortgage to them, and they had agreed that the mortgage was suitable 
for their requirements. It confirmed that it had highlighted the effect of the mortgage on their 
estate and:
The amount of Income Support, Council Tax and other Benefits to which they may be 
entitled, either now or in the future, could be reduced as a result of proceeding with the 
Lifetime Mortgage. 
The initial mortgage advance happened in the spring of 2008 and was for £25,000 on a fixed 
interest rate of £6.84%. Late in 2008 Mr and Mrs H applied to borrow a further £10,000, but it 
appears that they changed their mind and the money wasnt advanced. In 2012 Mr and Mrs H drew down another £25,000, bringing the total amount released to 
£50,000. This borrowing had a fixed interest rate of 7.79% attached to it and it was 
documented they were borrowing the money to have a new kitchen installed. In 2018 Mrs H 
drew another £10,000 to have a stairlift installed.  Both further advances included the 20% 
equity guarantee. 
When each of the drawdowns were requested, Prudential issued a further mortgage offer for 
the amount of the drawdown. These documents again explained the nature of the lifetime 
mortgage and what the individual advance would cost over time. The risks were also 
documented in the same way as they had been in the original mortgage offer.
Mr H passed away in 2016 and the mortgage was altered to be in just Mrs Hs name. 
Following Mrs Hs death in 2020, her executor raised a complaint with Prudential about the 
mortgage having been lent irresponsibly. The executor didnt believe the correct processes 
had been followed before the mortgage was recommended. In addition, she highlighted that 
Mr H had been suffering from the early stages of a progressive nervous system disorder at 
the time of the sale, which was diagnosed in 2009. Mrs H then became his carer until his 
death in 2016. The executor has said that this was Mrs H having some problems relating to 
her own stability. The second drawdown Mrs H took in 2018 then meant that she didnt 
qualify for state assistance in providing the care she later needed. 
Prudential responded to the complaint in its letter of 26 May 2021. It set out the process that 
was followed and the discussions that had taken place. It confirmed this was regulated 
advice and that Mr and Mrs H had received advice from legal advisers too. It also confirmed 
that Mr and Mrs H were made aware of alternatives to the lifetime mortgage. In relation to 
Mr and Mrs Hs capacity, it explained that part of the solicitors role was to ensure they were 
mentally capable of entering into the contract. There was no evidence that the solicitors had 
raised any concerns in this regard and Mr and Mrs H had confirmed to Prudential that they 
were in good health. 
In respect of the further funds drawn from the mortgage in 2012 and 2018, Prudential 
explained that these werent separately advised on, as the drawdown facility was part of the 
2008 mortgage and advice. The record of discussions about benefits and the written 
statements contained within the various documents was highlighted. Overall, Prudential was 
satisfied that it had done what it needed to do, the advice was suitable, and Mr and Mrs H 
were happy with the advice theyd received. 
The executor wasnt happy with the response from Prudential and asked this service to 
consider the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In respect to the merits of this part of the 
complaint, he was satisfied that the mortgage provided for Mr and Mrs Hs needs. He was 
also satisfied that the documentation provided was clear and wasnt misleading. As for 
Mr and Mrs H being vulnerable, he highlighted that as adults, they were entitled to keep their 
finances private from their family if they wanted to. In addition, he said there was no 
evidence from the time that there were any concerns about Mr and Mrs Hs health or that 
they were vulnerable because of it. He explained that it would be inappropriate to assume 
vulnerability simply because of age or a consumer wanting to make home improvements to 
make the property more comfortable for them. The investigator also explained that the 
drawdowns in 2012 and 2018 were a facility that had been included in the original mortgage 
and didnt involve new advice being needed or given. Overall, he wasnt persuaded that the 
mortgage had been mis-sold or that Prudential had failed in its duty of care to Mr and Mrs H. 
The executor didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint. She expanded on her 
opinion that Prudential should have reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs medical position before issuing further loans in 2012 and 2018. In support of this extracts of Mr and Mrs Hs medical records 
were provided. These showed that at the time the mortgage was taken out, Mr H had been 
suffering from a heart condition for many years and 18 months later, he was diagnosed with 
the progressive nervous system disorder. Mrs H had no serious health issues at the time, 
but from 2013 she began suffering from an age-related physical health problem. It was 
highlighted by the executor that Mrs H had been admitted to hospital numerous times during 
the spring and summer of 2018. The executor said that while the medical notes were difficult 
to follow, Mrs H was gravely ill, was suspected of having had a stroke and was extremely 
confused. 
Our investigator considered the executors further comments and evidence, however, he 
wasnt persuaded to change his conclusions. As such, the executor asked that the complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that the mortgage arranged in 2008 involved an initial cash pay-out and a 
drawdown facility. As Mr and Mrs H wanted the guarantee that they could have more money 
than they needed in 2008, they effectively took a mortgage for a higher amount. Rather than 
the extra amount being advanced to them, placed in a deposit account, and Mr and Mrs H 
paying interest on that amount, the extra money was placed in a drawdown facility. This 
meant that they could access the money easily when they wanted it, but they didnt pay 
interest on it until they drew it. As such, no additional advice process needed to be done 
when Mr and Mrs H asked for more of the money from the mortgage. This is not an unusual 
arrangement within the lifetime mortgage market, and I cant find that there was anything 
wrong with it. As such, Mr and Mrs H didnt need to go through a further advice process or 
application before taking more money from their mortgage 
I have also considered whether Prudential should have considered Mr and Mrs H vulnerable 
at the time of the 2008 advice. Given that lifetime mortgages are products that are only 
available to consumers who are in the later part of life, there is of course a higher likelihood 
of vulnerability within that population. However, it would be wrong for a lender to assume a 
consumer was vulnerable or incapable of making their own decisions simply because of their 
age or because they had medical conditions. Having considered the information about 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, the document signed by the independent solicitors and the 
medical evidence provided, I dont consider there is anything that suggests they couldnt 
make their own decisions or understand what they were doing when they met with 
Prudentials adviser. 
That said, I note that Mr and Mrs H were recommended to speak to their family and friends 
about the mortgage before deciding to apply. Mr and Mrs H told the adviser that they had 
done so, and their daughter supported them using the value of the house to make their lives 
more comfortable. However, even had they said they didnt want to discuss their finances 
with a friend or family, which is often the case, there was nothing to say they had to. They 
were independent adults who could make their own decision about their own assets and 
finances. 
Turning now to the recommendation that was made, I dont consider that the evidence 
shows that the mortgage was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs H. They were retired and living 
on a fixed income without the ability to make significant savings unless they materially 
changed their lifestyle. Having significantly depleted their savings the previous year, they 
didnt have the funds to achieve the home improvements they wanted to complete or to pay for the holiday they wanted. It was documented that alternative options were discussed with 
Mr and Mrs H, but they didnt want to take any of them. As such, the lifetime mortgage 
provided for their needs and fitted with their circumstances at the time. 
I note that the executor has said that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have signed the mortgage 
contract if they had understood that so much interest could be payable and that the debt 
could double. However, all of the documentation made it very clear that the debt would 
increase year on year and that this could amount to a very significant amount over time. 
Indeed, the amount of the debt that would be owed was detailed for each and every year for 
the first 19 years. In the case of the initial advance of £25,000 it was set out that the debt 
would have more than doubled by the end of year 19. Similar information was given before 
each of the drawdowns were signed for.
I also note that Mr and Mrs H decided to take the equity guarantee option on the mortgage. 
This guaranteed that an amount equal to at least 20% of the value of the property at the time 
of the original advance would be available to their estates after the property was sold. This 
would suggest that Mr and Mrs H were aware that all of the equity in the property could be 
eroded, and they wanted to make sure their estate received some money.
The executor has said that the second drawdown, which was taken for the purpose of 
installing a stairlift, meant that Mrs H had to pay for her own care. I havent seen any 
evidence of this, but I dont doubt that may have been the case. However, Mr and Mrs H 
were warned by the adviser before accepting the recommendation that mortgage could 
result in just such a situation. The adviser even noted Mr and Mrs Hs response  that they 
wouldnt look into the matter further as theyd already become aware that they didnt qualify 
for any means tested benefits. That risk was then repeated in the offer documents before 
each release of money happened. I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were not only warned 
about this possibility, but they were also told where they could investigate the possibility 
further if they wished to do so and provided with guidance of where they could find 
assistance. 
In addition, as has previously been highlighted, Mr and Mrs H spoke to their solicitor before 
they were allowed to accept the mortgage offer. The solicitor again explained how the 
mortgage worked and its consequences. Those consequences included how the mortgage 
would affect the amount of the property value that would be left to the estate. It was also 
confirmed that the solicitors highlighted to Mr and Mrs H the fact that the mortgage might 
affect their ability to receive state benefits at that time and in the future. 
Overall, I am satisfied the mortgage sold to Mr and Mrs H in 2008 was suitable for them. I 
am also persuaded that they understood the mortgage they were arranging; including that 
the amount owed could increase to eventually erode all of the equity in the property and their 
ability to qualify for benefits in the future could be affected. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman