DRN-1479586
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc declined an application they made for 
additional borrowing secured against their property. 
What happened
In November 2018 HSBC agreed a re-mortgage for Mr and Mrs D with an eight year term 
and initial monthly repayments of around £8,000. The mortgage was drawn down the 
following January. 
In September of that year Mr and Mrs D applied for further secured borrowing of £160,000 to 
pay off an existing loan and to fund home improvements. The monthly repayments were 
around £2,000 a month. HSBC turned down the application and said this was on affordability 
grounds.
Mrs D asked HSBC to consider a revised proposal for a secured loan of £90,000. She said 
this would enable them to consolidate the existing personal loan and fund some of the home 
improvements. And the monthly repayments would be the same as they were paying for the 
existing loan. So she argued this would be neutral in terms of affordability. 
HSBC reviewed matters but said its position remained unchanged. It also suggested 
Mr and Mrs D check their credit reports to make sure that all of the information they 
contained matched the details submitted as part of their application. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had assessed the applications against its lending criteria and 
provided its reasons for declining them. And he didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They said the issue wasnt the decline of the initial application 
(which they accepted) but that the revised proposal hadnt been agreed. They queried 
whether this had been properly considered and didnt feel that a proper explanation had 
been provided by HSBC about the reasons why this wasnt acceptable. So I need to reach a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules say that before agreeing to advance money a lender must check the 
borrower is able to afford repayments and will continue to be able to do so in the future. And 
in doing so it should obtain adequate evidence of a consumers income and consider their 
existing committed expenditure (including things like other credit, contractual agreements 
and basic essential expenditure).
In this case I can see that when assessing the initial application for additional borrowing 
HSBC carried out an affordability check. In doing so it took into account the credit and other 
commitments of both Mr and Mrs D (as this was a joint application) but only considered 
Mrs Ds income. The notes from the time say that was requested by Mrs D as she felt it 
would complicate matters to also include Mr Ds income as he was self employed. 
I note it didnt rely solely on the information provided by Mrs D about their credit and other 
commitments but obtained information from credit reference agencies which it used as part 
of the affordability assessment.  On that basis of that information HSBC concluded their joint 
expenditure exceeded Mrs Ds net income. HSBC said that didnt meet its affordability 
criteria which is why the application was declined. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D then asked for a revised proposal to be considered for a smaller 
amount. Their argument was that this was affordability neutral because as they were 
consolidating debt it didnt result in any increase to their overall expenditure. HSBC did refer 
this back to underwriters. And while it doesnt appear that this was as part of a formal 
application I can see underwriters were clear that this proposal didnt meet its criteria either 
for the same reasons theyd already provided. 
Ultimately it is for HSBC to decide whether or not to lend. But it needs to reach that decision 
fairly having regard to the relevant rules and regulations. I think in this case its done that. 
HSBC has taken into account the information provided by Mr and Mrs D together with 
additional information from credit reference agencies. Having done so it decided that this 
wasnt an application that it could progress in line with its affordability criteria. And it did 
provide them, in general terms, with the main reason for declining their application.  So I 
dont think HSBC has done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 
23 November 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman