DRN-2827114
The complaint
Mr L complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited wrongly declined a claim
he made on his motor insurance policy and then cancelled it.  
What happened
On Sunday 29 June 2019 Mr L had an accident in which he drove his car into a car that was
parked and unattended. Both cars were damaged. When Mr L reported the incident to
Watford, he said it happened when he was driving home from a shop owned by his wife
where hed been working. Mr L also told Watford during the same call (before any mention of  
commuting was made by it) that he never ever used the car to get to and from work.
Watford advised Mr L shortly afterwards that it wouldnt be covering the claim. It said hed
used the car for a purpose not permitted by the policy. It said when he bought the policy, he
was asked to say what hed be using the car for and had said it would be used for social,
domestic and pleasure (SDP) only. Watford said Mr L should have checked his policy
documents to ensure all the details in them were correct. It said his certificate of insurance
said cover for travelling to or from a place of employment was excluded. Watford cancelled
the policy, and as it didnt cover the claim, Mr L had to pay for his own repairs. Watford paid
to repair the other car, and later pursued Mr L for a refund of its costs.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint. She thought the calls showed that hed 
said he was driving home from work at the time of the accident. She didnt accept the
argument put forward by his representative at the time that Mr L wasnt commuting and that
there had been a misunderstanding between him and Watford. She thought it was fair for
Watford to conclude that Mr L had breached a policy term - even if it was the first time hed
done so. So she thought Watford had acted reasonably. Mr L asked for a review of his 
complaint by an ombudsman, and it was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ls complaint as follows:
Watford declined the claim on the basis that Mr L used the car for commuting to work. But
Mr L says he didnt ever use the car for getting to work, as he travelled to and from his
security job daily by train, from Monday to Friday each week. If thats the case, I think that
when he took out the policy in February 2019 he acted honestly and asked for the cover he
needed. Theres nothing to show that Mr L needed cover for commuting.
Mr L says his wife acquired her business after he bought the policy - and that he didnt work
there. He said that from 11pm on Saturday 28 June 2019 until 3am on Sunday 29 June
2019, he was helping out in the shop, as it was short-staffed due to illness. Mr L told Watford
that after getting a call, he had to rush to the shop from a party he was attending. So it
seems he didnt know in advance that he was going to have to help out that night. I dont
think it struck Mr L that he might need commuting cover for his journey to or from the shop.
But had Mr L called Watford to check, it says it would have been willing to add commuting to
the policy anyway and it told us recently that there wouldnt have been any charge.
I think Watford asked Mr L a clear question when he bought the policy by asking him to
confirm what he was going to use the car for. Had Mr L given Watford the wrong answer, I
think that would have amounted to a misrepresentation. Id then have had to consider
whether the provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA) applied. But I dont think Mr L made a misrepresentation, as I think he
answered the clear question set out by Watford accurately at the time.
In my opinion, Mr L should have contacted Watford when his circumstances changed
temporarily - and he had to drive to and from the shop to help out - in order to check that he
was covered to do so. But even if he made a mistake in not contacting Watford to check, I
still have to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Watford not to cover his claim.
That always depends on all the particular facts of each case.
I think its debateable whether, in helping out in an emergency situation, Mr L was working in
the shop, or whether it was a place of employment for him. I dont think Mr L believed hed
been at work in the usual sense of that phrase. In my opinion, many consumers in his
position would have taken the same view - but might have explained it better. I think Mr L
confused matters in the initial call to Watford after the accident by saying it happened when
he was on his way home from work. Yet when he was asked to clarify the situation
immediately afterwards, he was adamant that he never used the car for work.
I think Mr L could probably have explained the situation to Watford better than he did had
English been his first language, but I dont think theres any evidence that he tried to mislead
it. I think he made an honest mistake in not realising that driving to and from his wifes
premises to help out may have meant he needed extra cover for commuting. I dont think its
fair that he should be heavily penalised for that  or for not explaining the situation better -
especially when it seems it made no difference to Watford, as it would have provided him
with extra cover for commuting without increasing the premium.
Pending any further comments from Watford (or from Mr L) Im minded to conclude that it
would be fair and reasonable in this particular case for Watford to cover the claim (subject to
all other policy terms and conditions) and to remove notice of the policy cancellation. As I
dont think Watford should have declined the claim, and Mr L faced distress and
inconvenience as a result of that, I think it should also pay him £100 compensation. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr L accepted them. Watford said 
Mr L hadnt disclosed his wifes change of occupation. It thought his occupation had changed 
too. Watford said as Mr L was serving in the shop later in the day, after the accident took 
place in the early hours, it didnt think he only worked there on one occasion. 
We asked Mr L for clarification. He said his wife was still working at a supermarket for 
several months after she took over the shop (which was after hed bought the policy). He 
said she always used public transport to get work. He confirmed that he does not work in the 
shop, and still has a full-time security job, nor does he commute by car to his work place (or 
hers). But he helps out occasionally in the shop. Mr L said he was there later on the day of 
the accident because the employee who was ill the previous evening was still unwell.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion, theres nothing to show that Mr L has changed his occupation. I think he 
should have informed Watford of his wifes change of occupation well before the accident 
took place. But that wasnt the reason Watford declined the claim. I dont think theres evidence that Mr L used his car for commuting to work, despite the fact 
that he drove it on the night of the accident when he had to help out in the shop. In my 
opinion, Mr L has provided a reasonable explanation for that, and for serving in the shop 
later the same day. Clearly, he didnt drive to the shop that day, as the car wasnt driveable. 
He says he used public transport and that its the standard, cheapest way his wife uses to 
get to the shop from home. I dont think theres anything to show that Mr L ever drove to that 
location, except on the night of the accident, in what were unusual circumstances. 
In my opinion, Mr L made a genuine mistake in not realising there might be an issue in 
driving the car on the night of the accident. I dont think he believed he was commuting, in 
the usual sense of the word. I dont think most consumers would have thought he was 
working as such, or commuting. Watford wouldnt have charged him more for extra cover 
anyway, so I dont think its fair and reasonable for it not to cover the claim.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do the following:
Cease to pursue Mr L for the sum Watford paid for the third partys costs
Subject to evidence, refund Mr L for the reasonable cost of repairing his car, and add 
interest, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Remove the cancellation from databases and write to Mr L to say the policy was 
cancelled in error
Pay Mr L £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman