DRN-4064899
The complaint
Mr B, Ms B, Mrs B and Mr C (the complainants) have complained about the way Great 
Lakes Insurance SE handled their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
For clarity, I should make it clear that we are considering a separate complaint about the 
amount Great Lakes have offered in settlement of the complainants claim. This is under a 
separate case reference. This is because at the point Great Lakes issued their final 
response letter on the service provided in relation to the complainants claim, they had not 
actually made an offer to settle it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Great Lakes took too long to communicate their decision on the claim, which caused 
the complainants unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
When they did make an offer, they did not make it clear that the complainants could 
accept this on a without prejudice basis. This meant Mrs B didnt provide her bank 
details and the complainants have been without the amount Great Lakes offered for a 
considerable period of time. This has caused the complainants further distress and 
inconvenience. 
I consider that Great Lakes should compensate the complainants for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced as a result of the poor handling of their claim. And I 
agree with our investigator that £200 is the right amount of compensation for the level 
of distress and inconvenience they experienced.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider Great Lakes should pay the complainants £200 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr B, Ms B, Mrs B and Mr Rs complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE and order them to pay them £200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Ms B, Mrs B 
and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman