DRN-4038156
The complaint
The executors of the estate of H complain that M & G Securities Limited accepted a 
telephone instruction to sell all units in an Open-ended Investment Company (OEIC) from 
only one executor when an authority from all executors was required. The estate of H also 
complains M & G Securities Limited failed to give information about any capital gains tax 
(CGT) liability on the sale of the investment.
What happened
In April 2020, M&G identified that H had passed some years earlier. M&G traced an executor 
for the estate and told her it still held investments in the name of H. The executor, who I will 
call executor 1, provided M&G with a Grant of Probate (GOP) and details of the only other 
executor of the estate, who I will call executor 2. Shortly after, executor 1 contacted M&G by 
telephone and instructed the sale of the investment. M&G later received a withdrawal form 
signed by both executors and paid the value of the investment to their representative. 
The executors representative complained to M&G that the sale of the investments shouldnt 
have happened when it did as M&G required instructions from both executors, and that M&G 
failed to clarify the CGT position on the investment. The representative said that the 
executors of the estate of H could have sold less units at the time and may have received a 
higher unit price if the investment hadnt been sold when it was. M&G didnt uphold the 
complaints and said it was able to secure the sale of the investment by taking telephone 
instructions from only one executor and hold on to the funds until it received a withdrawal 
form signed by both executors. M&G said it clarified its position regarding CGT to the 
representative of the estate of H and apologised for the mistake in its original letter. 
The representative of the executors brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that M&G 
hadnt done anything wrong by accepting an instruction to sell from only one executor but did 
feel that M&G had mistakenly told the executors that it had followed the wrong process. The 
Investigator thought that M&G could have made its position clearer about the CGT earlier 
than it did and that this delayed the estate administration. The Investigator thought that M&G 
should pay the estate of H £300 for the distress and inconvenience the errors caused.
The executors of the estate of H asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint and the 
complaint was passed to me to consider. As I reached a significantly different outcome to 
that of the Investigator, I issued provisional decision and asked each party for its comments. 
In my provisional decision I said I intended saying that M&G shouldnt have accepted a 
telephone withdrawal from just one executor and that it should re-calculate the withdrawal 
amount based on when it received the withdrawal instruction signed by both executors. I 
also said that I intended saying M&G wasnt authorised to provide CGT advice and although 
it had made an error in its initial response to the representative it later explained it wasnt 
authorised to provide CGT advice. 
The representative for the executors of the estate of H didnt accept my provisional decision 
and provided further comments for me to consider. I will address these comments in my final 
decision. M&G provided a response to say it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that M&G allowed executor 1 to instruct the sale of the 
investment without an authority from executor 2. Theres no dispute this happened and that 
the funds were paid to the representative of the estate in May 2020. So, my decision has 
focussed on whether M&G should reasonably have accepted a telephone instruction from 
only one executor and whether M&G delayed telling the representative it couldnt provide 
CGT advice. 
After identifying executor 1 in April 2020, M&G sent her a letter requesting details of any 
other executors and a copy of the GOP. Executor 1 provided the information and GOP to 
M&G, who then wrote to executor 2 in early May. Theres no dispute executor 1 provided 
details of executor 2 to M&G before she gave a telephone instruction to sell the investments. 
But, in this case, its reasonable for me to conclude that executor 2 wouldnt have knowledge 
of the telephone request to withdraw funds until he spoke with M&G later in the same month. 
M&G said its normal practice is to allow any executor to instruct the sale of an investment by 
telephone, but that it wouldnt release the funds until it had received a withdrawal form, or 
letter, from all of the executors. The executors say that by allowing a telephone instruction 
from executor 1 only, without executor 2 being present, both executors of the estate of H 
were prevented from making decisions on whether to sell all the investment, sell part of it, or 
hold it until it could be dealt with. 
M&G provided a copy of its When an M&G Investor Dies brochure from the time of the 
instruction along with an internal document it issued to staff. The terms and conditions of the 
investment dont specifically outline what should happen in this case, so I intend relying on 
the two documents Ive referred to. In the When an M&G Investor Dies brochure M&G says, 
in option 4: 
To sell the investment well need either:
 A Withdrawal Form completed and signed by all Executors/Personal Representative
 OR a letter dated and signed by all Executors/ Personal Representative including 
The same brochure includes a flow-chart that explains a withdrawal can be instructed by 
telephone and that to do this, {M&G} will also require a completed Withdrawal Form, in 
order to complete your request when selling over the phone. 
M&G has told us that if all named executors arent present on the telephone call, it requires 
sight of all signatures to release the proceeds. However, the internal document Ive 
previously referred to says an executor registered on the account can sell over the phone to 
secure a price, and that the deal can be settled over the phone if all executors are present, 
or if theres only one executor. In this case there was more than one executor and M&G was 
reasonably aware of this. It seems to me that M&Gs documents and internal processes 
support that a written instruction is needed from all executors (if more than one), or all 
executors must be on the telephone call to instruct a sale. 
Because not all executors were present on the sell call, Ive decided that M&G should 
reasonably have obtained a withdrawal form signed by all the executors or obtained a 
telephone instruction to sell from executor 2 as well as executor 1 before the sale was 
placed. In my opinion it doesnt seem fair and reasonable that M&G allowed one executor to enter into a contract to sell the investment without receiving confirmation from the other 
executor before executing the sale. I understand that M&G would be right not to release 
funds if all executors hadnt been fully verified, but the issue here is that M&G accepted 
instructions from only one verified executor when it already knew there were two. 
The sale was placed on 7 May, but executor 2 couldnt have provided his authority as he 
didnt know about the investment at this time. Executors 1 and 2 did sign a withdrawal form 
which M&G received on 30 May. The representative says executor 2 only signed the form to 
authorise the release of the sale funds to the estate of H and that the sale was effectively a 
fait accompli. The form executor 1 and 2 both signed was marked with a sales reference 
number which its reasonable to conclude referred to the sale from 7 May. The executors of 
estate of H believe that it should be put back into the position it was in before the sale was 
instructed by executor 1.
Ive thought about this, but in my opinion the form is clearly a withdrawal form and Its 
reasonable for me to conclude executor 2 would have understood hed given his authority for 
the investments to be sold when signing the form. I dont think its reasonable for me to 
conclude that this form was only intended to be executor 2s authority to release the funds, it 
also instructed the sale of the investment along with executor 1. I think its too speculative for 
me to decide when the executors would have sold the investment or if they would have 
decided to partially encash the investments or transfer the investments directly to the 
beneficiaries. The representative says that market conditions would have been taken into 
account, but in my opinion, this would now involve the benefit of hindsight. However, in the 
circumstances of this case, M&G had a valid instruction to sell from both executors by 30 
May 2020. So, although Ive decided M&G acted incorrectly in accepting a telephone 
instruction form executor 1 only, I think the withdrawal form signed by both executors is 
enough to persuade me it would be fair and reasonable for M&G to re-calculate the sale 
value of the investments based on the price available at the time it received this instruction  
its a reasonable refence point for when both executors agreed to instruct the withdrawal. If 
this is greater than the amount realised from the sale of the investment instructed by 
executor 1 on the telephone, M&G should pay the estate of H the difference and pay interest 
on any amount at 8% simple per year until the settlement date. To be clear, I think M&G 
should calculate any difference using the price it secured on the 7 May instruction and the 
price it would have received on the next working day after 30 May 2020  the day it received 
the instruction signed by both executors. Im satisfied that this will put the estate of H back in 
the position it would have been in if M&G had completed the sale when it had a valid 
instruction to do so from both executors.
After the investment was sold, the executors representative asked M&G for a breakdown of 
the income paid into the investment, along with a breakdown of the fund. The representative 
asked other questions about how and when it had found out H had passed. M&G promptly 
provided the information requested and said in its response that capital gains are not 
applicable to this investment. In December 2020, the representative wrote to M&G to say 
the probate for the estate of H had been settled but it required clarity about the comments 
M&G had previously supplied about CGT. There were then a series of letters and emails 
between M&G and the representative about the matter of CGT and what tax may be 
payable. M&G apologised for its error in saying capital gains tax wasnt applicable to the 
investment and said that the representative should ask the HMRC or a tax specialist for 
further guidance as it wasnt authorised to give advice tax advice. It seems likely to me that 
M&G initially made an error and apologised for his, but then misunderstood what information 
the representative was looking for. When it became clearer what the representative wanted, 
M&G told them it wasnt authorised to provide tax advice and Im satisfied M&G acted 
reasonably in this regard. 
The representative for the executors of the estate of H have told us that M&Gs failure to follow proper procedures and reply in a timely manner meant that the executors incurred 
substantial legal costs. Ive noted these comments, but I think its reasonable for me to 
conclude that M&G didnt delay releasing the funds as they were with the representative by 
June 2020 and the probate was settled in late 2020. And, as M&G isnt authorised to provide 
tax advice, it wasnt ever going to be in a position to provide any specific CGT advice the 
representative was seeking. We don't normally pay compensation to someone else 
complaining on behalf of an executor, for example, a family member or solicitor. We also 
can't compensate executors personally, as they only represent an estate. In this case, it 
seems to me that it was more likely than not there would need to be early discussions with 
HMRC or a tax specialist about any further tax to be paid on the investments, particularly as 
the investments had come to light many years after the executors had settled the estate of H 
with HMRC. I dont think its reasonable for me to consider M&G should be liable for the cost 
of providing this advice or any other ongoing legal costs in dealing with the estate of H.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold part of the complaint made by the estate of H and that M & G 
Securities Limited should calculate the difference in what it paid the estate of H and what it 
would have paid using the unit price on the next working day after 30 May 2020. M & G 
Securities Limited should then pay the estate of H the difference, if any, and pay interest on 
any amount at 8% simple per year until the settlement date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman