DRN-4189552
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the way MS Amlin Insurance SE (MS Amlin) has handled a 
claim he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
On 30 May 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint. This is what I said in the provisional decision: 
What happened
MS Amlin are the underwriters of this policy, i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of MS Amlins claim handlers. MS Amlin have accepted they 
are responsible for the actions of their claim handlers, and other agents. A reference 
to MS Amlin therefore includes the actions of their agents, including their claim 
handlers.
On 6 May 2022, Mr E notified MS Amlin of a claim for damage to his tractor, caused 
by the failure of an engine component. 
MS Amlin accepted the claim and confirmed to Mr E, on 23 June 2022, that the 
vehicle was a total loss, and a pre-accident value (PAV) was placed on the vehicle 
for a sum of £60,000, subject to the deduction of the policy excess. Mr E was also 
informed that MS Amlin would instruct their salvage agents to collect the vehicle.
Mr E declined to allow the vehicle to be collected. He didnt agree with the PAV but 
said he would accept £50,000 together with being able to retain the vehicle. 
However, MS Amlin explained that, as the salvage value of the vehicle was £19,200, 
his proposal wasnt acceptable.
On 28 June 2022, Mr E contacted MS Amlins claims team to challenge the salvage 
figure on the basis that he expected it to be closer to 10% of the PAV. During that call 
he was advised that hed been given an incorrect salvage figure, and it should have 
been 15% of the PAV; so, £9,000. Mr S confirmed he was happy to accept the sum 
of £50,900 in settlement of his claim (after deducting the excess payment and the 
salvage value). On receiving confirmation of this in writing from MS Amlin, Mr E 
instructed a garage to carry out the repairs. He said he wouldnt have done that if the 
salvage cost was £19,200.
A few weeks later, on 19 July 2022, after Mr E had arranged for the vehicle to be 
repaired, he contacted MS Amlin to ask why the claim monies hadnt been 
transferred to him. At that time Mr E was advised that the claims team adviser hed 
spoken to on 28 June 2022 had provided an incorrect salvage figure, and the correct 
figure was £19,200, as originally notified to him. Mr E complained about this, as hed 
authorised repairs to the vehicle, based on the revised lower salvage figure 
confirmed to him in writing.
In September 2022, MS Amlin issued their final response letter, partially upholding 
the complaint, and offered Mr E £100 compensation for the delays hed suffered in 
his claim being settled. Unhappy with the response, Mr E brought his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view not 
upholding the complaint. She explained that shed reviewed the matrix MS Amlin 
used to calculate the salvage figure. The matrix showed that the correct figure was 
£19,200. Therefore, our investigator said they shouldnt have to pay Mr E £10,200 as 
a result of a mistake being made. She said that the £100 compensation offered by 
MS Amlin was fair in the circumstances.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view. He said that hed questioned the 
amount of the salvage price because in the past he believed was around 10% of the 
value of the vehicle. He repeated that hed asked for confirmation of the revised 
salvage price, on the call and in writing, which was provided. He explained that he 
had taken care to confirm that sum, because he wanted to be certain of the salvage 
cost, before he instructed the work to be carried out on the vehicle. Mr E said he 
never would have gone ahead with the restoration of the tractor on the basis of a 
salvage cost of £19,200, as it wouldnt be financially viable. It was only after the 
salvage cost of £9,000 was confirmed, that the work was instructed.
Mr E requested an ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different conclusion to that arrived at by our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Mr E hasnt disputed the decision to declare his vehicle a total loss. And while he 
wasnt completely satisfied with the valuation, he was willing to accept it, in the 
context of the vehicle being allocated a salvage value of £9,000.
Mr Es policy document explains what happens in the event of a total loss on page 17 
of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading (2.3)  Total Loss. It says:
If the insured vehicle suffers loss or damage where the costs of repair or 
replacement exceed the market value of the vehicle we will pay you up to the market 
value of the vehicle at the time of the loss. When we have paid you, the vehicle 
becomes our property and cover in respect of the vehicle ceases.
So, under the terms of the policy, MS Amlin was entitled to take possession of Mr Es 
vehicle. This means that by agreeing to return the vehicle to him, in exchange for a 
reduction of the total loss payment, by the salvage value, MS Amlin was acting 
outside the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our service typically agrees that an insurer should agree to allow customers to retain 
their vehicles, despite what the policy says, because the vehicle is still the customers 
property until the claim is settled. So, they should have the right to keep it if they wish 
to do so. That said, we also typically agree that it is fair for the insurer to deduct the 
amount it would have received for the salvage. This is so the insurer doesnt lose out 
as a result of the customer keeping the vehicle.In this case, the policy terms and conditions specifically state that MS Amlin can take 
possession of the vehicle. So, had MS Amlin stuck to the terms of the policy, it would 
have been able to sell the vehicle at auction. Mr E decided that he wanted to retain 
the vehicle, and MS Amlin agreed. So, I think it is fair and reasonable that it deducted 
a salvage value from the cash settlement it was to pay Mr E, so that it didnt lose out 
financially by allowing him to keep the vehicle.
In explaining how it arrived at the salvage value for the vehicle, MS has provided us 
with a matrix that explains for vehicles, such as the one Mr E has claimed for, with a 
value in excess of £40,000, the salvage value would be 32% of the value of the 
vehicle. In this case that gives a salvage value of £19,200. However, when Mr E 
queried that value with MS Amlin, before deciding to have the vehicle repaired, MS 
Amlin confirmed verbally, and in writing that the correct salvage sum was £9,000. In 
that same phone call, Mr Es bank details were obtained and a copy of the V5 was 
requested to enable the claim to be settled. The V5 was provided later that day, and 
Mr E told us that following written confirmation of the salvage value being £9,000 he 
decided to arrange for the vehicle to be repaired.
On 19 July 2022, Mr E contacted MS Amlin to chase the payment of the claim 
monies which he hadnt yet received. At that time, he was informed that the salvage 
value confirmed to him nearly three weeks prior, was incorrect and the correct 
salvage value was £19,200. Mr E made a complaint to MS Amlin shortly afterwards 
on the basis that hed made arrangements for repairs to the vehicle based on the 
figures confirmed to him three weeks earlier.
As Ive already explained, the policy terms and conditions dont specifically cover the 
issue in dispute here. On the one hand, MS Amlin is firmly of the view that the 
salvage value of £19,200 should be applied to the settlement of the claim, on the 
basis that Mr E shouldnt be able to financially gain from a mistake made by their 
claims handler. On the other hand, Mr E says that he relied on the information he 
was given, verbally and in writing, and incurred costs he wouldnt have otherwise 
incurred, so his overall position has been worsened by MS Amlins actions.
Where the evidence is inconsistent, incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I make 
my decision based on what I think most likely happened and on what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr E specifically challenged the salvage value on the basis that he believed it should 
have been closer to 10% of the value of the vehicle. The second claim handler he 
spoke to agreed and said it should be 15%, not the 32% he was originally quoted. 
This was confirmed in writing. After that confirmation was received Mr E instructed 
the repair works to be carried out.
When Mr E was told that hed been provided with incorrect information, three weeks 
later, he had already committed to incurring the repair costs. So, Mr E, in reliance on 
the incorrect information provided by MS Amlin, instructed the repairs to be carried 
out.
Mr E told us that hed suffered detriment as a result of MS Amlins actions, as, in 
reliance on the lesser salvage value advised to him, he decided to have the tractor 
repaired. However, before I can consider whether and to what extent, MS Amlin 
should pay Mr E the £10,200 difference between the first and second salvage values, 
I first need to be satisfied Mr E suffered a detriment as a result of MS Amlins 
mistake.Our investigator asked Mr E for some additional details regarding the losses hed 
suffered which he considered were due to the incorrect salvage value being 
confirmed to him.
In response, Mr E said that repairs were only completed four months after the tractor 
broke down which led to him losing a substantial amount of business and customers 
during four of the busiest months of the season. He also explained that MS Amlins 
poor handling of the claim led to it taking an excessive amount of time for the claim to 
be settled, during which time he was losing business. Mr E also told us that while the 
repairs cost less than £40,000 he cant understand how a company are able to agree 
figures both verbally and in writing and not honour that agreement, regardless of the 
costs later involved.
Ive considered Mr Es further comments and understand his frustration. But, the 
commercial motor policy doesnt provide cover for lost income. So, while I accept that 
his business did suffer as a result of the tractor breaking down, and the period of time 
it took for the repairs to be completed, the policy doesnt specifically provide cover for 
that. Ive therefore next considered whether it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint for MS Amlin to settle his claim on the basis of the 
second salvage value advised to him.
Before I can reasonably require MS Amlin to settle Mr Es claim on the basis of 
incorrect information he was provided by their claim handler, I need to be persuaded 
that he did suffer a financial detriment which directly resulted from that. So, Mr E 
would need to show either that:
had he known he was only going to get £40,700 he would have taken the 
settlement of £59,900 and bought a like for like replacement tractor without 
spending his own money; or
he couldnt have had the tractor repaired for less than £40,700, so still would 
have had to spend his own money on the repairs.
On the basis of the evidence I currently have, it seems that neither of the above 
scenarios apply. The letter from a supplier of tractors to Mr E said that it would take 
nine to twelve months to supply a like for like replacement tractor, given the bespoke 
nature of the tractor. Bearing in mind the losses which Mr E suffered from the four 
months of having the tractor out of service, I think it unlikely he would have chosen 
an option that gave rise to a longer period of delay. And Mr E has told us that the 
tractor cost less than £40,000 to repair, so after deducting the original salvage value, 
he was able to have the same tractor without having to pay anything in excess of the 
claim settlement monies.
So, having considered all of the information, while it was wrong of MS Amlin to 
provide Mr E with an incorrect salvage value, and not promptly correct that 
information, I am not convinced that it made Mr Es position worse, in relation to the 
damaged tractor. Consequently, I am not currently persuaded that Mr E suffered any 
loss or detriment from this. Undoubtedly, being a tractor down during the busiest 
period of the year for his business did cause Mr E to suffer losses, as hes explained. 
But, for the reasons given, I cant hold MS Amlin responsible for those other losses. 
However, when considering whether MS Amlin has acted fairly and reasonably, I can 
award compensation for the inconvenience Mr E has suffered due to the way that his 
claim was handled. And I can see, in the evidence provided, that there were delays 
caused by MS Amlin which would likely have protracted the period of time it took for the claim to be settled.
MS Amlin offered Mr E £100 for the inconvenience hed suffered as a result of the 
way it had handled his claim. However, I dont think that goes far enough to 
compensate Mr E for the inconvenience hes experienced. As MS Amlin was 
advised, Mr E had to make do without a tractor during his businesses busiest period. 
And, it was only when Mr E contacted MS Amlin to chase the payment of the 
settlement sum that he was informed a mistake had been made, three weeks after 
hed been provided with the incorrect information. Im satisfied that this would have 
caused Mr E additional inconvenience during what was already a stressful time. I 
also note that in the early part of the claim, several weeks passed before MS Amlin 
took any substantive action to progress the claim. I therefore think the compensation 
should be increased to £350.00. 
I concluded by saying I intended to partially uphold the complaint and require MS Amlin to 
pay Mr E £350 compensation. I asked both parties to let me have any final arguments or 
information theyd like me to consider, before giving my final decision. Mr E didnt respond to 
my provisional decision. However, MS Amlin responded to say it accepted the provisional 
decision and agreed to pay the increased compensation to Mr E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any new evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I therefore uphold this complaint in part and require MS Amlin to put things right as Ive set 
out below. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given in this decision and in the provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require MS Amlin Insurance SE to pay Mr E £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the way it has handled the claim (less any amount 
already paid to him).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require MS Amlin SE to pay the award 
detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman