DRN-4250874
The complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche 
Financial Services (PFS) made an error when it amended his agreement which resulted in 
his monthly payments increasing.
What happened
Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with PFS. In 
February 2023 Mr C contacted PFS to change the payment date on his agreement. 
PFSs system incorrectly amended Mr Cs payment schedule and reduced the balloon 
payment under the agreement from £46,930.00 to £1910.88. This resulted in the full balance 
being spread over the course of Mr Cs agreement, meaning that his monthly rentals 
increasing from £1,032.74 to £1910.88.
Mr C paid £1032.74 on 16 February 2023 and £1910.88 on 1 March 2023. On 1 March 2023 
Mr C raised a complaint with PFS.
PFS acknowledged the error and wrote to Mr C in May 2023 setting out the options. These 
were:
1.Reload i.e enter into a new finance agreement for the car with the same terms and 
conditions as the original agreement. 
2.Reduced settlement 
Mr C said he wanted to return the car and have his deposit refunded. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that PFS had apologised for the error 
and had offered Mr C reasonable resolution options. 
Mr C said that PFS had continued to take the incorrect monthly payment from him. He said 
he had asked PFS how it would reload his agreement but had received no response. Mr C 
said he just wanted PFS to take the direct debit as per his agreement.
The complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PFS has accepted that it made an error when it amended Mr Cs payment schedule. It has 
offered Mr C two options to remedy the error. These options are:
Option 1 
Reload the agreement and take steps to make sure there is no negative impact on Mr C 
credit file. No payments to be taken for March and April 2023. Compensation of £878.14 to 
be paid to Mr C.
Option 2 
Reduced settlement
Mr C said he wanted to end the agreement. PFS offered a reduced settlement. The 
outstanding balance was £84,088.74 but PFS reduced it to £73,540.59, providing Mr C with 
a saving of £10,548.15.
Taking everything into account, I think that both options are fair and reasonable and in line 
with the action this service would be asking PFA to take. So Im unable to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr C has said that PFA continue to take the higher payment each month. This service asked 
Mr C whether he had accepted option 1. He said he had provisionally accepted option 1. It 
isnt clear what Mr C means by this. Ive seen reference to some emails which suggest that 
Mr C has tried to renegotiate option 1 with PFS. But I cant see that PFS has offered or 
agreed anything beyond the options which are set out above  both of which I think are fair 
and reasonable.
If Mr C hasnt accepted the settlement offer (option 1) from PFS, then the increased 
payments will continue to be taken from his account. This is because until option 1 is 
accepted, PFS wont reload the new agreement and revert to the original monthly payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman