DRN-2976863
The complaint
Ms K complains about the way Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva) assessed her critical 
illness claim. She disagrees with the amount paid to settle the claim. 
Ms K is being represented by her husband, but for ease, Ill refer to Ms K throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Ms K took out a reviewable whole of life policy with critical illness benefit in 1995 with an 
initial sum assured of £149,000 for a monthly premium of £24.22. The policy benefits and 
premiums changed annually in line with indexation. 
In December 2019 a policy review took place. Aviva gave Ms K the option of increasing her 
monthly premium to maintain cover of £212,356 or to pay the same and reduce the cover to 
£194,797. Because Ms K didnt reply, Aviva contacted her on 17 January 2020 to say that 
from 1 February 2020, her critical illness benefit would reduce to £194,797.
In February 2020 Ms K was sadly diagnosed with breast cancer and contacted Aviva to 
make a claim. 
In May 2020 Aviva accepted the claim and paid Ms K £194,797. Ms K contacted Aviva to 
ask if the claim payment could be backdated to January 2020, given this was when she first 
experienced symptoms of her breast cancer.  Aviva confirmed the claim had been paid as of 
12 February 2020, because this was the date of her histological diagnostic testing for breast 
cancer, and so the point at which Aviva could determine if Ms Ks breast cancer met the 
policy definition. 
Ms K complained to Aviva. She said Avivas decision to pay the claim at the point she was 
histologically diagnosed was contrary to the policy terms and conditions. She said that as a 
medical practitioner, she believed it was clinically apparent in January 2020 that she had 
breast cancer, and so her payment should reflect the value of the policy at that time. 
Aviva didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. It explained why her cover had reduced as of 
1 February 2020 because of the failed policy review. And whilst Aviva noted Ms Ks view that 
her diagnosis was apparent to her from January 2020, it said it wasnt until she attended a 
clinical assessment on 12 February 2020 that it was possible to say she met the policy 
definition for breast cancer. 
Ms K didnt accept Avivas response and asked us to look at her complaint. She maintained 
her claim should be paid at the point she made a clinical diagnosis of her breast cancer  
and that this diagnosis was relevant to the claim given she wouldve had to declare her 
symptoms if shed taken out a new policy.
Ms K also said the terms of her policy say she had up to a month to respond to a policy 
review. But because of her breast cancer diagnosis, she wasnt in the right frame of mind to 
make this decision in respect of the December 2019 review. Ms K wanted this taken into 
account, and for her payment to be increased to the pre-December 2019 review amount. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Aviva wouldnt have 
been able to assess whether Ms Ks breast cancer diagnosis met the policy definition until 
shed undergone tests on 12 February 2020. And she explained to Ms K that whilst the 
symptoms she experienced in January 2020 wouldve been relevant to any new application 
she mightve made, this isnt the case when Aviva assesses a claim for a critical illness 
under an existing policy.
In terms of the policy reviews, our investigator said Ms K was made aware of the options to 
increase her premiums or reduce her cover in December 2019, before her diagnosis. And 
given shed not taken any action in response to previous reviews, our investigator thought it 
unlikely Ms K wouldve done so in response to the December 2019 review, even if she had 
been well enough to do so.
Ms K disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She didnt think 
it was fair that Aviva wouldnt pay her claim from the date she, as a medical practitioner, 
diagnosed her breast cancer.
Ms K still maintained the terms of her policy allowed her a month to decide to keep the 
higher cover amount after it was reduced  but that during that month she wasnt well 
enough to make that decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know Ms K feels very strongly about her complaint, 
and I want to assure her that I havent taken this decision lightly  and I dont in any way 
underestimate the severity of her medical condition and the impact this is having on her and 
her family. 
Ive read and considered the whole file.  But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Date of diagnosis 
Ms K says a clinical diagnosis of her breast cancer couldve been made in January 2020. 
And so, she thinks this is when her claim settlement should be settled from. 
As Ms K has mentioned, symptoms and medical investigations leading up to a possible 
diagnosis are relevant considerations that a customer should disclose to an insurer when 
applying for life and critical illness cover. Thats because the existence of symptoms may 
indicate a higher risk of a critical illness occurring, which an insurer would want to consider 
as part of the underwriting process.  But when an insurer assesses the validity of a claim 
made on a policy thats already in place  it does so against the relevant terms and 
conditions to satisfy itself that an insured event has happened, rather than it might happen. 
The relevant term here is as follows:  Cancer: A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth and spread of 
malignant cells and the invasion of tissue.
Aviva was satisfied this definition was met and that no exclusions applied  but it was only 
able to do this at the point a histological diagnosis of Ms Ks cancer was made. This might 
not be the case with all critical illness claims  but Im satisfied this was necessary in Ms Ks 
case. 
So, whilst I dont doubt that Ms Ks cancer was strongly suspected in January 2020, the 
malignancy and invasion of the cancer could only be confirmed by the histology. Im 
therefore satisfied that Aviva was only able to accept Ms Ks claim at the point a histological 
diagnosis was made  and it was satisfied the cancer definition had been met. Aviva has 
paid the claim from 12 February 2020  that being the date of Ms Ks first appointment for 
histological diagnostic testing. This seems fair to me. 
December 2019 policy review
Ms K has referred to the following policy definition in relation to policy reviews:
Review Option
If, at any Review Date . the Sum(s) Assured have been reduced to an amount 
determined by the Actuary, then the person(s) from time to time entitled to exercise 
this Option  may request [Aviva] on that Review Date or within one month thereafter 
in a form prescribed by [Aviva] to alter the Policy so that:
a. the sum(s) Assured are increased to the level applying immediately prior to 
that Review Date 
Aviva wrote to Ms K on 9 December 2019 with the outcome of the policy review. I can see 
from that letter Aviva clearly explained the options available to Ms K. It also explained that if 
it didnt hear from her by 17 January 2020, it would assume she wanted to keep paying the 
current monthly premium, but reduce the sum assured. Because Ms K didnt contact Aviva, it 
wrote again on 17 January 2020 to confirm her sum assured would be reduced to £194,797 
as of 1 February 2020. 
Ms K has said she believes the policy terms state she had a month after 1 February 2020 to 
decide to keep the higher sum assured amount. But that isnt how this term reads to me. The 
review date is the key date here  not the date on which the changes come into effect. So, 
my understanding is that Ms K had a month from 9 December 2019 to make this decision  
in fact she was given until 17 January 2020. And I believe the options were clearly outlined 
to Ms K in Avivas 9 December 2019 letter, along with the key dates. And so, I dont think 
Aviva has done anything wrong here or acted contrary to the terms of Ms Ks policy. 
I totally understand Ms Ks point about the impact her cancer diagnosis had on her ability to 
make decisions about her policy around that time. And how the timing of the policy review 
and her claim has understandingly meant shes wanted to make sure shes been paid what 
shes entitled to. 
But I also must bear in mind that Ms K was contacted by Aviva before her diagnosis (9 
December 2019), and given until 17 January 2020 to contact Aviva if she wanted to keep the 
higher sum assured. And so, I dont believe Aviva has treated Ms K unfairly here. I dont in any way underestimate what a difficult time this is for Ms K and her family. But 
having taken everything into account, I think Aviva has assessed her claim fairly and has 
paid her the correct sum assured. And so, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman