DRN-2129048
The complaint
Mr W complains about the customer service he received from Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc (MSFS) in connection with a transaction on his bank account.
What happened
Mr W has a bank account with MSFS. He was in dispute with a retailer and asked for a letter 
from MSFS to confirm a refund hadnt been received to his account during a particular time 
period. The bank said it would provide the letter.
The letter didnt turn up so Mr W asked a second time. Shortly after, the letter was received 
but he said it quoted the incorrect time period. Mr W had to make a number of additional 
calls to resolve the issue. He also made an official complaint. 
MSFS pointed out it had correctly provided the information for the time period Mr W originally 
asked for, which was March 2019. But it apologised for the delays it caused and the 
problems Mr W experienced. It awarded him £65 compensation by way of an apology. Mr W 
wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint and said the £65 offered by MSFS was 
a fair way for it to apologise and she didnt ask it to do anymore. 
As Mr W remained unhappy, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons.
The information requested
Ive listened to the call when Mr W made the original request and he asked MSFS to provide 
a letter and confirmed it should cover March 2019, although some weeks later he said hed 
actually wanted March 2018. 
Im satisfied MSFS didnt do anything wrong in assuming his original request was what he 
wanted and Im not holding it responsible for the part of the delay this caused. 
The delay in providing the letter
Mr W asked for the letter in a call to MSFS on 20 November 2020 and was told it would take 
ten days. But following an internal error between MSFS departments, the request wasnt 
dealt with. This caused a delay of eleven days.
Mr W called again on 4 December to say he hadnt received the letter. This reminded MSFS 
to send the letter and it was received seven days later. I consider this reasonable and in line 
with the original ten day timescale.
There was then some back and forth about which year Mr W had requested, which Ive 
explained above.
MSFS sent the letter addressing Mr Ws revised request on 12 December 2020. Mr W says 
he didnt receive this letter but, having seen a copy, Im satisfied it was addressed correctly 
and so I cant hold MSFS responsible for him not receiving it and the delay this caused. 
In summary, I think MSFS did cause a delay but wasnt responsible for the whole period of 
time it took for Mr W to receive the letter.
Mr W hasnt provided any evidence to show the delay caused him a financial loss. So, 
whats left for me to consider is fair and reasonable compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience Mr W was put to.
Having considered all the evidence, I think MSFS could have provided better customer 
service and sent Mr W the letter he requested sooner than it did. Mr W has explained the 
delay caused him inconvenience but he has declined to provide any further details of this. 
But I accept in making a number of calls to chase the information and waiting longer for the 
letter he would have experienced some inconvenience.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied MSFS has made a fair offer of compensation for 
the delays it caused and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
I am aware Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has made an offer to pay £65 to settle 
the complaint. I conclude such offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My 
decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay Mr W £65 if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman