DRN-3994827
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that it lost out financially because Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS) made a mistake with its international payment.
K wants BoS to compensate it for the loss incurred when the receiving party received less 
money than expected.
K is represented in this complaint by a director, Mr B.
What happened
Mr B says he wanted to make an online transfer of Pound Sterling (GBP) to an account 
overseas. Mr B was unhappy to discover that the payment had been made in the local 
currency of the receiving country. As the receiving party received less money than expected 
due to the exchange rate used, K wants BoS to make up the shortfall.
BoS doesnt agree that it made a mistake. It says that the online system defaults to the local 
currency of the receiving party and that it wouldve been for K to change the currency to 
GBP, which it didnt. BoS paid K £20 to apologise for the length of time Mr B had to wait on 
the phone when he asked about the transfer.
After reviewing screenshots of the online international payment process, the investigator 
didnt recommend that Ks complaint be upheld as he didnt think BoS made a mistake.
K disagrees with the investigation outcome. Mr B points out that he encountered issues with 
BoS online payment system in the week that K made the international payment. Mr B says 
that hes always followed the same steps when making international payments and never 
had a problem before. 
The investigator followed up with BoS which confirmed there had been a two hour when 
customers couldnt complete online payments. BoS says this didnt impact the currency 
being chosen within a payment. BoS also checked in the week leading up to Ks international 
payment and confirmed there were no other reports of a similar incident with international 
payments. Based on this, the investigator told K that his view remained unchanged. 
As K remains unhappy with the outcome, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that K lost out financially but my role is to consider whether this is due to a mistake 
that BoS made. In cases like this where the evidence is contradictory, I reach my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that BoS made a mistake with the 
international money transfer. When making an international payment, BoS system defaults 
to the local currency. BoS has provided a screenshot of the online process in which it tells 
the customer that the currency will be changed to BoS standard currency for the receiving 
country. And that you can change the currency by selecting the appropriate flag. 
BoS says that the online instructions it received from K meant that the payment debited its 
account in GBP but BoS then sent the equivalent amount in the local currency. Although    
Mr B says hed used the same process many times before without issue, I think its more 
likely than not, that on this occasion he didnt opt to change the default currency back to 
GBP.
In response to Ks concerns about the payment, BoS has done what I would expect it to do 
by checking whether any similar incidents were reported in the lead up to K making the 
payment. BoS says it doesnt have any record of other incidents and I have no reason to 
dispute what it says. BoS also says that the technical incident which prevented some 
customers from making online payments for a short time didnt impact the currency chosen. 
This all makes it less likely that a technical fault led to Ks payment being sent in the local 
currency instead of GBP. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that BoS made a mistake which led to K making the payment in 
the local currency. This means I dont require BoS to compensate K for any losses incurred. 
I appreciate this is likely to disappoint Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman