DRN-3849632
The complaint
Ms S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) held an incorrect postal 
address for her. This has caused her concern over the security of her personal information; 
specifically that financial documentation has been sent to the wrong address. 
What happened
Ms S took out a Friends Provident (then UK Provident) with-profits policy on 17 May 1977 on 
a joint basis with her former husband. Aviva later took over operation of the policy. 
In June 2018, she contacted Aviva about the policy with an enquiry about the maturity value, 
which was expected within the next few years. She also checked her contact details, as she 
had gone through a divorce in 2009 whereby she and her former husbands home had been 
sold. From that point on, she had held the policy in her sole name.  
At that time, Ms S was unable to clear security via telephone, and was only able to do so 
once she gave her ex-husbands details. It transpired that Aviva held her ex-husbands 
current address for the policy  somewhere Ms S had never lived. Ms S was therefore 
concerned that her personal information had been shared with him - without her consent.  
She later supplied Aviva with a copy of her passport and a handwritten letter regarding her 
change of details, in which she asked Aviva to explain why it had attributed the wrong postal 
address to her policy. However, Aviva did not supply any response. 
In April 2021, the policy matured and Aviva wrote to Ms S at the correct address. It also 
wrote to her in June 2021 asking about what she wanted to do in respect of her maturity 
value. Ms S then complained about the issues with her address, as previously raised in 
2018. She said she remained concerned about the breach of her personal information. 
In August 2021, Aviva upheld the complaint. It explained how, prior to 2013 it had sent Ms S 
statements to her former marital home address. However, it then received a gone away 
returned post notification, so statements had stopped being issued. It did not know how it 
had come to hold Ms Ss former husbands details as an address for Ms S, but it confirmed 
her address was now correct and that it had not had any material effect on the policy or its 
maturity value.  
Aviva accepted its standards had fallen short and it sent Ms S a cheque for £175. However, 
Ms S did not cash the cheque. She lodged her complaint with this service in October 2021. 
Aviva initially suggested the complaint was outside of the time limits applying to this service 
but it later consented to it continuing.  
Our investigator agreed that Aviva should have done more than it had; it ought to have 
ensured it held the right address for Ms S. He noted that Ms Ss former husband had 
updated Aviva so this explained why there was a change to the policy  it was solely by Ms 
S from 2009 onwards. But it had failed to establish the right address for her, though Ms S 
hadnt raised any concerns about that until 2018. While Ms S had suffered no financial loss, 
she was upset to learn that Aviva had not written to her correctly, and this caused her worry. 
He agreed that £175 was an appropriate value of compensation in those circumstances.  
Ms S made some further written submissions, noting:
she didnt cash the cheque because she didnt think it was appropriate to do so whilst 
the complaint had been referred to this service;
the cheque will have expired in February 2022;
whenever she has moved, she has always contacted appropriate businesses;
it was bewildering to her that Aviva had her former husbands new address as a 
means of contract regarding her sole policy;
she had sent written updates regarding her address;
despite this, Aviva never wrote to her or acknowledged her letters;
it was only in 2018 that she queried matters as she expected her policy would soon 
mature;
though Aviva hadnt updated her address in 2009, it had changed her surname 
following her divorce she could not fathom why it had done one and not the other;
she found having to confirm her former husbands address on the call to be 
humiliating, as he now lives with his present wife at that address;
if she didnt know those details, she questions whether Aviva would even have paid 
the maturity value to her at all;
she hadnt instigated separation of the policy; 
she had yet to receive the proceeds of the policy;
it was Avivas staff member that suggested on the telephone that he considered its 
actions had been a serious data protection breach;
she wants an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
Aviva did not add any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Ms S was particularly upset because Aviva couldnt clarify why her ex-
husbands current address came to be on her personal documentation following severance 
of the policy  as this caused her a great deal of upset upon discovering that issue in 2021 
because of a specific history, which I will not set out here.
As our investigator has explained, Aviva has since been able to evidence the letter it 
received from Ms Ss ex-husband dated 22 December 2009. In that letter, he explained that 
they had recently divorced, he changed his address and he understood that Ms S would 
arrange to sever the policy  to which he agreed. So, Aviva (at that time, Friends Provident) 
split the policy and paid Ms Ss ex-husband his proportion of the policys maturity value.  
Though her ex-husband had suggested she would do so, it appeared Ms S did not contact 
Friends Provident until 2018, by which time she had discovered that the policy had 
transferred to Aviva. Nonetheless, I realise that Friends Provident should have sought to 
establish where Ms S required contact going forwards, because it knew the address for the 
property Ms S and her former husband had lived at would no longer be in use. 
I must clarify for Ms S that we are not a regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We are an informal dispute resolution service and my role is to reach a fair 
outcome based on the evidence before me. Similarly, if Ms S has outstanding concerns about data protection, that is a matter for the Information Commissioners Office.     
Since Aviva has rightly accepted that it made mistakes, I need to consider whether its 
proposal for a payment of £175 for the impact of those mistakes - upset caused to Ms S -  
was appropriate in the circumstances, and I believe it was. It has explained why it changed 
the address, and while it should have only done so for Ms Ss ex-husband, it failed to identify 
that Ms S would have her own, different, address. It also did not tell Ms S that it had acted 
on her request in 2018 or why things had happened as they did. For that, it has proposed a 
reasonable compensatory sum based on the impact of its administrative failings on Ms S.  
Though I know she says otherwise, Ive not seen any evidence that Ms S contacted Aviva to 
change her address until 2018. Though it did not confirm it had made the change, Aviva did 
correctly update Ms Ss contact details at that time. What it didnt do is tell her why it had 
failed to do so in 2009. I have considered the impact of this, and Ms Ss further complaint in 
2021 below.  
Putting things right
The compensation which applies here is consideration of the upset and distress Ms S has 
been caused when finding out that ongoing policy information had been forwarded to her ex-
husband, though he had declared his intention to cease the policy in 2009. I can see how 
concerned and distressed Ms S has been about that and why. 
Our awards are not punitive; we do not award compensation to discipline businesses. 
Instead, we make limited compensatory awards which account for the impact of any upset 
caused. Ms S can review our website for guidance around awards if she requires. Aviva has 
already suggested an award in the range of what would be considered reasonable if I had 
made that direction myself in circumstances. This is where the matter has caused Ms S 
considerable trouble, disappointment and concern that her ex-husband continued to receive 
information about a policy that he no longer had any connection to following their divorce. I 
therefore do not believe Aviva should do anything more, besides resending the payment to 
Ms S; this is since the cheque previously issued has expired without it being cashed.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, insofar as I agree that Aviva should reasonably have sought to clarify 
with Ms S in 2018 why it (and Friends Provident before it) had not correctly updated Ms Ss 
postal address following severance of her (previously joint) with profits policy. This caused 
Ms S upset and distress when she found out that post would have been mistakenly sent to 
her former husband  something she could otherwise have taken steps to resolve in 2009. 
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has paid Ms S the redress already offered in its letter of 
25 August 2021, then no further redress is due. If it has not, then it must pay that redress if 
Ms S accepts my decision. 
Ms S may also wish to liaise with Aviva regarding her policys maturity value, should she 
have yet to receive payment. I make no direction in that regard, as it does not form part of 
this complaint; but I am pleased to note that in its final response letter to this complaint, 
Aviva has agreed to pay Ms S interest on the maturity payment to account for any delay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2023.
 
Jo StoreyOmbudsman