The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1994 
to support their joint mortgage and that it mis-sold the amended PPI policy in 1999 which 
was taken out to support a further advance. 
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W complained to this Service. They said they were told they had to buy the 
PPI to get the original mortgage in 1993. Lloyds Bank says the policy was more likely sold in 
December 1994.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like they were 
offered an optional policy; it was suitable for their needs when it was taken out and was still 
suitable when it was later amended. She said the information might have been clearer, but 
they probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. They added the following main points:
they were pressured to buy the PPI in 1993, not 1994, to get the fixed rate of interest
offer;
they were told it was compulsory to buy PPI;
they had other insurances, good health, good income and employee benefits, so they
didnt need PPI.
The PPI only covered Mr W so I will sometimes only refer to him; but I will refer to Mrs W 
and Mr W where appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws and Mr Ws complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Lloyds made Mrs W and Mr W aware the policy was optional. They 
specifically said they bought the policy in April 1993 because they felt they had to take the 
DRN-1834573cover to get the original mortgage. I noted they borrowed a total of £104,000 in April 1993; 
£8,500 in December 1994 and £22,500 in April 1999.
Lloyds Bank says the policy was probably sold in December 1994, not April 1993; it also said 
the total monthly cost of the policy most likely shows the policy covered all of Mrs Ws and 
Mr Ws borrowing taken out in 1993 and the further advance in December 1994 to a total of 
£112,500; and then the policy was later amended in 1999 to cover further borrowing of 
£22,500.  
On that basis, I think they probably bought PPI around 8 months after they got the original 
mortgage. I also think they were probably aware the policy was optional and chose to take it 
later when their borrowing increased in December 1994 and then chose to amend the policy 
in 1999 when their borrowing increased again. So I think the PPI was presented to them as 
an optional product and it was added to their account with their consent. I noted also that 
both policies were tailored to cover Mr W only, even though Mrs W was also working. So I 
think they probably were aware that PPI wasnt compulsory for wage-earners.
Mrs W and Mr W said they read words on Lloyds PPI leaflets which strongly recommended 
consumers should take out PPI  so they conclude they felt pressured to buy it. Ive thought 
very carefully about this; but in light of what Ive already said, I dont think there is enough 
evidence here from Mr Ws view of the promotional material to suggest they were pressured 
to buy PPI. So I dont uphold this part of their complaint.
Lloyds and Mrs W and Mr W all agree the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy 
had to be suitable for their needs. In this case, I think Mr W was eligible for both PPI policies, 
it seems each policy was affordable for him and he didnt seem to be affected by the things 
the policies didnt cover (the exclusions). So Id say the original policy, and the amended 
policy, were probably suitable for their needs.
For years 1994 and 1999, Mr W said he was in full time employment and could get good 
employee benefits from his employers if he was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; 
he was in good health throughout and had savings and other insurances to use if he couldnt 
make the monthly repayments.
However, having decided they wanted PPI and chose it, I think Mrs W and Mr W thought the 
policies provided a valuable benefit to them in addition to Mr Ws employee benefits, savings 
and other insurances. I think the PPI could have paid out for longer than his employee 
benefits at a time when they might have needed it most. I also think he was unlikely to be 
affected by the main exclusions of the policy as he was in good health and in full time 
employment. I think it was useful for Mrs W and Mr W to be able to rely on the PPI policy for 
mortgage repayments instead of using their other funds and insurances which could be used 
for other expenses. So I dont think their finances at the time of the sale made the policies 
unsuitable for them. 
I also looked at whether Lloyds gave Mrs W and Mr W enough clear information about the 
policies. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set out the 
cost of the PPI  this is a potential shortcoming in the sale. But having said that, I dont know 
how the cost and benefits were actually explained to them in the meeting. So as Ive decided 
they chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think that 
having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put them off from 
taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to Mr Ws attention  this is another potential 
shortcoming in the sale. But as the main exclusions didnt affect him, I dont think he would 
have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been given a full list of them. Taking everything into account, I think they were aware PPI was optional, that it was suitable 
for their circumstances and that they had enough clear information to make a decision about 
it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman