DRN-3798738
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed properly to honour a claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), in relation to a booking at a holiday 
cottage.
Mr C has been represented in his complaint by a Mr G. When I refer to things said or done 
by Mr C then this should be taken to include things said or done by Mr G unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
Mr C booked a holiday cottage through an online booking platform I will call N, in October 
2019. The cottage was owned by a Ms P, for whom N was acting as agent. Mr C paid £665 
using his Barclays credit card and later paid a balance of £1,470 via a bank transfer from 
another bank. The total price of £2,135 was made up of £2,100 for accommodation between 
17 April 2020 and 24 April 2020, and a £35 booking fee. All payments were made directly to 
N.
The coronavirus pandemic then arrived in the UK about a month before Mr C was due to 
stay. The booking ended up not going ahead. Its unclear if any party to the booking officially 
cancelled it. Mr C has said only that neither he nor N nor Ms P could honour the booking 
without breaking the law. Mr C had been interested in moving the holiday to another week, 
but Ms P refused to allow either a change in the dates or a refund. N told Mr C that it was, in 
essence, bound by Ms Ps decision.
Unhappy with the stance adopted by N and Ms P, Mr C approached Barclays for assistance. 
The bank attempted what it known as a chargeback against the £665 deposit payment 
made on the card. This process was successful and resulted in Mr C receiving a refund of 
this amount. Barclays also considered whether it might have some responsibility to Mr C 
under section 75 of the CCA, as a result of which it refunded a further £294, this being what 
it took to be Mr C and his wifes share of the booking. Mr C complained about this decision. 
After reviewing the matter, Barclays stood by what it had said about refunding only Mr C and 
his wifes share, but offered £100 compensation for not telling Mr C that he could have 
contacted his other bank to make a claim in respect of the balance payment.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr C referred the matter to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and came to the following 
conclusions:
Mr C was not limited to claiming for only his and his wifes proportion of the booking, 
and Ns terms and conditions said it would provide a refund in circumstances where it 
(N) had deemed it necessary to make a change to the booking. 
The booking fee paid to N by Mr C was less than the lower limit required in section 
75 of the CCA. This meant section 75 didnt apply to the transaction and Barclays 
had therefore not been under an obligation to provide further refunds to Mr C.
The payment of £100 for poor service was in line with the guidelines of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators assessment. I could summarise his key points as 
follows:
He had a contract with both N and Ms P, but he had paid everything to N and 
therefore there was an argument that N was responsible for providing a full refund. 
Were he to need to go to court he would sue both. Any distinction between them 
would be artificial.
It was the overall price that should be looked at when considering section 75, rather 
than the £35 agents commission.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators view that Barclays does not need to do 
anything further. Because there is no dispute over Barclays handling of the chargeback, nor 
apparently the amount of compensation they have paid for poor service, I dont intend to 
comment on those points in any detail. 
On the matter of the chargeback I will say only that in my view Barclays handled the 
chargeback in a satisfactory way, obtaining a refund from N of £665. This is the most the 
bank could have received via the chargeback process, which is limited to the amount paid on 
the card. 
Barclays offered £100 compensation for failing to advise Mr C that he should go to his other 
bank about the balance payment. In my view it wouldnt have made a difference had 
Barclays informed Mr C he needed to contact his other bank for a refund of that payment. As 
this was paid via bank transfer, and not card, Mr Cs other bank would have been very 
unlikely to be able to do anything about it. In any event, Barclays offered £100 compensation 
and, given the apparent lack of a failing, this seems fair to me.
The reasons for my decision on Barclays response to the section 75 claim are as follows:
Section 75 of the CCA would allow Mr C to make a claim against Barclays for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services he paid 
using his Barclays credit card. More specifically, Mr Cs credit card payment needs to 
have been made under pre-existing arrangements between Barclays and the 
supplier against whom he has a claim. Mr Cs payment was made under pre-existing 
arrangements between Barclays and N (for N to accept Barclays credit cards), not 
pre-existing arrangements between Barclays and Ms P.
Section 75 does not apply where the cash price of a single item is £100 or less, or 
more than £30,000. 
Mr C used his credit card to pay N. In my view, this was in connection with two 
contracts. One contract was with N, and this was to administer and manage the booking process, pass on his payments to the holiday cottage owner, and provide a 
refund in certain specified circumstances. Ns charge for these services was £35. 
The other contract was with Ms P, the cottage owner, for the provision of the cottage 
itself for the duration of Mr Cs stay. The cost of this was £2,100.
It follows that Mr C cannot claim against Barclays for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by N, because the price of Ns services was below the threshold at 
which section 75 would begin to apply. Because N listed the cost of its booking 
services separately to the accommodation, I think the booking services and the 
accommodation were separate items for the purposes of section 75. I dont think it is 
reasonable therefore to use their combined price for the purposes of considering the 
section 75 claim, as Mr C has suggested. 
It also follows that Mr C cannot claim against Barclays for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Ms P, because he did not use his credit card to pay Ms P. He 
paid N, who passed on his money to Ms P. Mr C says this is an artificial distinction. It 
is true there are some exceptions to this general rule. For example, if N and Ms P 
were associates as defined in the CCA, I could treat them as one and the same 
when considering whether pre-existing arrangements existed between them and the 
bank. But theres no evidence they were associates, and I have been unable to find 
any other exceptions which apply. My view is that there were no pre-existing 
arrangements between Barclays and Ms P and, as a result, Mr C cannot hold 
Barclays liable under section 75 in respect of any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by her.
Its unfortunate that Mr C does not have the protection afforded by section 75 of the CCA 
due to these technicalities. But in light of the above, I have to conclude that Mr C did not 
have a valid claim against Barclays, meaning the bank did not deal with the claim unfairly. In 
fact, it appears to have refunded part of the price paid for the accommodation when it was 
under no obligation to do so.
Mr C may still have a claim against either N or Ms P directly in relation to what happened, 
but I make no findings about that. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman