DRN-2232844
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage that the late Mrs E took out in late 
2007/early 2008. The mortgage was taken out with a different lender before being 
transferred to TSB Bank plc. For simplicitys sake, Ill refer to TSB throughout, even when 
mentioning events before the transfer. The complaint, brought by the executors of Mrs Es 
estate, is that TSB failed to assess the affordability of the mortgage, including how the 
capital would be repaid.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision, I set out the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint. The relevant extract from the provisional decision is set out below:
TSB wasnt responsible for ensuring the mortgage was suitable for Mrs E; the key point of a 
non-advised mortgage sale is that its for the applicant to decide for themselves whether the 
mortgage is in their best interests and suitable for their needs and circumstances at the time. 
But TSB was still required to lend responsibly by ensuring Mrs E could afford the mortgage.
The investigator concluded that MK, who arranged the mortgage for Mrs E, was a third-party 
intermediary who introduced the application to TSB; in essence a mortgage broker. I dont 
believe that to be the case. MKs role in arranging the mortgage is captured on a lender 
assessment form- a document internal to TSB. Alongside MKs name on the form is a 
payroll number - which to me is strongly indicative that MK is (or was) an employee of TSB - 
and a ticked box with the annotation Face to face interview conducted.
Put all that together and it seems to me highly likely that the information TSB relied on when 
assessing the affordability of the mortgage for Mrs E was captured by its own staff member 
during a personal meeting. What I must decide is whether the information TSB captured was 
adequate and accurate, such that it could meet its regulatory obligation to ensure the 
mortgage was affordable. Thats the very crux of this complaint, and whilst I appreciate the 
executors think otherwise, Im minded to conclude that TSB did all that it was required to do 
at the time.
The key phrase there is at the time. Ive studied the executors submissions very carefully, 
and I can see that they have framed their arguments around the Mortgage and Home 
Finance Conduct of Business rules (known as MCOB). MCOB came into force in late 2004, 
and set out the rules lenders were required to follow. The difficulty is, the executors are 
referencing MCOBs requirements on assessing affordability as theyre written now, and 
I cant apply those very rigorous standards to the sale of Mrs Es mortgage. 
In deciding this complaint, I have to assess TSBs actions according to what MCOB required 
of it in 2007, and the standards in place then were far less onerous than now. As far as 
meeting the monthly instalments are concerned (which in Mrs Es case, would have just 
covered the interest) a lender could accept what the applicant told it about their income on 
face value; it didnt have to verify it. 
That didnt happen here; TSB did obtain verification of Mrs Es income and on doing so, was 
seemingly satisfied that Mrs E would be able to afford the mortgage payments. In short, TSB 
did more than it was required to do at the time and Ive no reason, on the evidence before 
me, to consider that it made an incorrect decision on Mrs Es ability to afford the monthly 
payments.
That brings me to the strategy for repaying the capital on or before the end of the intended 
15-year term; that would have been in early 2023. TSB has told us that the mortgage was 
repaid in 2017; Ive taken that to mean that the mortgage was repaid after Mrs Es death. I 
mention it merely for completeness; its not relevant to my consideration of whether TSB 
gave the matter enough attention in 2007.
On this point, theres an even greater difference between what MCOB required then and 
what it requires now. In 2007, a lender was not required to ensure a borrower even had a 
repayment strategy, let alone insist on knowing what it was and whether it was credible. If a 
lender did ask about the repayment strategy, it could, again, accept what it was told on face 
value, without verification.
The records from the time show that TSB and Mrs E did have a discussion about her 
repayment strategy. It was recorded that Mrs E intended making extra payments - from year 
three onwards  to reduce the balance, and use a pension plan to take care of the rest at the 
end of the term. 
The executors have said this was never possible, not least because Mrs E didnt have a 
pension plan. Ive no reason to doubt what they say, but within the context of regulation as it 
was in 2007, that doesnt help their case. As with affordability of the monthly payments, TSB 
again did all that (arguably more than) MCOB required of it at the time; it had a conversation 
with Mrs E about how she planned to repay the capital, and recorded what she told it. 
I know that seems inadequate when viewed in the context of current standards, and I do 
understand how strongly the executors feel that TSB came up short when arranging their 
mothers mortgage. Im not unsympathetic, but I repeat that I cant use todays standards to 
judge what a business did (or failed to do) in 2007.
I gave the parties until 17 September 2020 to make any further submissions before I 
finalised my decision; both have responded. TSB said it had nothing further to add. The 
executor noted my distinction between the regulations as they are now and as they were in 
2007, but pointed out that when hed taken a mortgage in 1995, hed been required to 
provide documentary evidence of his income. To emphasise that point, the executor 
provided us with documents showing Mrs Es income in 2007.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, including the 
executors response to the provisional decision. However, Im not persuaded to depart from 
my provisional conclusions. TSB did all that the regulations required of it in 2007; Whatever 
steps another lender took to verify the income of a mortgage applicant in 1995 arent 
relevant here.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms E 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman