DRN-2339252
The complaint
Mr O complains N.I.I.B. Group Limited (Northridge) havent recorded accurate information 
about his personal loan on his credit file.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr O took out a loan for 12 months with Northridge. Mr O was 
unfortunately made redundant in March 2018, and because of this wasnt able to fulfil his 
monthly payments for his loan. 
Mr O contacted Northridge in April 2018 to let them know he wouldnt be able to make 
payments for the time being until his redundancy payment came through. He let them know 
as soon as he got his redundancy payment, hed settle the outstanding balance  and 
expected this to come through in the next four to eight weeks. Mr O says he knew this would 
affect his credit file but says Northridge had accepted an agreement for him not to pay which 
would be recorded on his credit file. Mr O was to call Northridge back in June 2018 to repay 
the full debt  and when Northridge didnt hear from him, they contacted him again. In 
July 2018 Mr O let Northridge know the redundancy still hadnt come through and they gave 
him a further 30 days  with an agreement for Mr O to get back in touch with them in 
August 2018. In November 2018 Mr Os redundancy payment came through, and he settled 
the outstanding balance with Northridge.
Mr O then says in August 2019 he was accepted for a new job / promotion pending security 
checks and a credit file search. He was told there were problems with his credit file and 
discovered Northridge had recorded default / delinquent on his credit file  despite him 
being in an agreement. Mr O says he was never told this.
When Mr O was talking to Northridge about this, he was concerned to hear them saying they 
had no duty to report any arrangements. So, given everything thatd happened he 
complained. 
Northridge replied and said they understood Mr Os complaint to be about the way theyd 
administered his agreement, particularly how itd been recorded with the credit reference 
agencies. They said as they believed in good customer service theyd amend Mr Os credit 
file record to show an agreement in place.
Unhappy with this Mr O asked us to look into things  explaining he felt Northridge didnt get 
to grips with his complaint. Specifically, that theyd recorded his loan as default / delinquent 
which wasnt fair as hed come to an agreement with them to pay it off after he got his 
redundancy pay. Mr O says by failing to record the agreement correctly it nearly cost him a 
job / promotion, did cause a delay where he didnt get an increased salary, and has caused 
him stress and upset. Mr O also set out in detail his frustrations about what happened when 
he complained about Northridges service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Os complaint and ultimately decided it should be 
upheld. He said the agreement was for Mr O to repay the loan within eight weeks of telling 
Northridge hed been made redundant. So initially he needed to repay it by June 2018  and 
then by July 2018 after Northridge agreed to a further 30 days for Mr O to repay the loan. 
But, because he didnt repay the loan by July 2018, this effectively meant the agreement had 
been broken  so, as a result Northridge havent acted unfairly in recording late payments. 
But, he did think Mr O had been caused a loss of expectation by not being told hed broken 
the agreement, and how things would show on his credit file, so awarded £150 
compensation.
Northridge accepted this, but Mr O didnt. He said as a result of Northridge recording a 
default without his knowledge, not recording an arrangement marker and not telling him 
nearly resulted in him losing a job / promotion. This has put him in direct financial detriment 
of over £400, plus the stress and detriment to his health about the issues with his 
employment.
Because Mr O didnt accept our investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say how sorry I am for the difficult situation Mr O has found himself in  being 
made redundant in 2018, and then the stress of potentially losing his job / a promotion also.
I think its helpful to explain that I need to decide what, if anything, Northridge did wrong and 
how best to put that right.
All parties accept an agreement was made in April 2018 for Mr O to not have to make any 
payments for up to eight weeks  the time he said hed receive his redundancy payment and 
could then clear the outstanding loan balance. Northridge extended this for a further month 
when they spoke to Mr O in June 2018. So, this gave Mr O until July 2018 to repay the loan.
Its also not in dispute that Mr O didnt pay off the loan balance until November 2018  Ive 
seen the statements to show this  so the agreement wasnt kept to. Under the 
circumstances I think Northridge have acted fairly in reporting that Mr O was behind in his 
repayments.
Ive looked at the credit file Mr O has provided. This is dated 16 September 2019  so some 
time after initial events but around the time Mr O complained. This shows AP for May, June 
and July 2018. I cant see AP defined anywhere, but it seems likely to represent the 
arrangement Mr O and Northridge came to. After this, the credit file report shows 4 against 
August, 5 against September, and 6 against October 2018. These numbers represent the 
amount of months late Mr O is in paying for his loan  which is an accurate reflection of what 
happened, as he didnt make any payments during this time.
I note Mr O is particularly concerned by his account showing as in default and has 
mentioned default / delinquent. But his account hasnt been defaulted as evidenced on the 
credit report which is blank in the section default date. Mr O has taken this from the credit 
report which does show default / delinquent and has a balance against it of £1,237.
Mr Os loan was for £1,500 over 12 months. Combined with the interest the total due to be 
repaid was £1,649.16, with monthly repayments of £137.43. Mr O made three payments  
January, February and March 2018, before the agreement was put in place. So, the 
outstanding amount owed at this time was £1,236.87. 
So, theres no evidence to show Mr Os account was actually defaulted  but rather 
Northridge have just been reporting how much of his loan was outstanding. Taking everything into account then, Im satisfied based on the credit report of 16 September 2019 
that Northridge have recorded this correctly now.
Mr O though is concerned about the impact of Northridge not having recorded the 
agreement before  because he could have lost a job and its caused him a lot of stress.
I do sympathise with Mr O, as its clear whats been reported back isnt what he expected. 
But, I cant reasonably say that recording an arrangement to pay would definitely have been 
the difference in Mr O being offered the job or not. And, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I do think the late payments from August to October 2018 are correct.
That doesnt mean though Northridge have handled everything correctly  as I dont think 
they have. From August 2018 they began reporting how many months Mr O was behind in 
paying for his loan. As Ive said above I think this was the correct thing to do  but they didnt 
make it clear this is what was going to happen. I think they should have been explicit in the 
calls that once the agreement came to an end what theyd begin reporting and they didnt. 
So, I think thats worth compensation.
As Mr O has been made aware, I cant consider Northridges complaint handling as its not a 
regulated activity. But I have thought about the letter he asked them to send saying hed 
been made redundant. Mr O says he specifically asked Northridge to confirm hed been in 
an arrangement to pay. Northridge have said they dont have the phone call where this was 
talked about  so I cant know for sure whats been discussed. But I think its very likely Mr O 
did ask Northridge to confirm he was in an arrangement to pay. I say that because at this 
time he understood he was in an arrangement to pay as he hadnt been told otherwise. And, 
he was asking for this letter to prove to his employer whatd happened after the issues with 
his job / promotion were flagged up to him. So, I think its more likely than Northridge didnt 
do what hed asked which I think is also worthy of compensation.
Ive thought about this carefully, and overall Im satisfied £150 is fair. Ultimately, I dont have 
enough to say Northridge should be held fully responsible for Mr Os loss of earnings given I 
think some of the information has been recorded correctly. But, I do think Northridge could 
and should have explained things better  both about the arrangement to pay, and the letter 
Mr O asked them to send.   
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint and order N.I.I.B. Group Limited to pay Mr O £150 
in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman