DRN-3490028
The complaint
Miss Ks complaint is about a mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
Miss K says that she took out a two-year fixed rate mortgage, but it expired after only 
14 months. To settle the complaint Miss K would like NatWest to refund the product fee of 
£995.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 12 April 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss K being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In early 2020 Miss K was looking to buy a property and approached NatWest for a mortgage. 
Miss K found a property and a mortgage offer was issued dated 7 February 2020. This was 
for a two-year fixed rate product at an interest rate of 1.21% until 31 March 2022, with a 
product fee of £995. The offer stated that it was valid until 5 August 2020. 
That purchase fell through, and Miss K looked for a new property. It wasnt until November 
2020 that Miss S found a new property  through no fault of hers, but largely due to 
lockdown restrictions imposed as a result of the pandemic. A new mortgage offer was issued 
for the same product as before, the two-year 1.21% fixed rate expiring on 31 March 2022. 
Miss K completed her purchase on 26 January 2021.
In December 2021 Miss K was dismayed to receive a letter from NatWest informing her that 
her interest rate product would be expiring at the end of March 2022. Miss K complained, 
saying that shed taken out a two-year rate and so expected it to run for two years from the 
date she completed her purchase. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that the 
end date for the interest rate product was set out in the mortgage offer.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Miss K brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that the terms of the mortgage were clear about when the product 
would expire. Although the investigator noted that Miss K said shed never received a copy 
of either the illustration or the mortgage offer, the investigator was satisfied that the 
November 2020 offer was correctly addressed to her and a copy sent to Miss Ks solicitors.
The investigator also wasnt persuaded that the fact Miss K had chosen a slightly cheaper 
property after her first prospective purchase fell through impacted on the interest rate 
products available to Miss K. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss K has asked to discuss her complaint with me before I issue my findings. 
However, Im satisfied that I have all the information I need to enable me to reach a fair 
outcome on this complaint. It would be unusual for an ombudsman conducting an 
independent review of a complaint to discuss it with one of the parties before issuing their 
findings, and it is not part of our process for me to do so. In any event, Miss K has set out 
her position clearly, eloquently and in detail and so I do not need any further information 
from her or NatWest.
I also note that the investigator has explained that we wont be looking at the matters 
covered in NatWests final response letter issued on November 2020 in relation to issues 
with correspondence being sent to the wrong address. Thats because the complaint wasnt 
referred to us within six months of the date of that letter, and there are no exceptional 
circumstances to allow me to disregard this. I understand Miss K has referred her concerns 
about NatWest using an incorrect address to the Information Commissioners Office. I will 
therefore make no further comment about this.
The crux of this complaint is that Miss K believed her two-year fixed rate mortgage product 
would run for two years from the date of completion of her purchase. Miss K also says she 
never received the mortgage offer or mortgage illustration and so wasnt aware that the two 
years expired on 31 March 2022.
When NatWest offers a fixed rate mortgage product, this is because the bank has itself 
borrowed funds in the wider money markets, with a set repayment date. That is why its fixed 
rate mortgage products also have a set end date, in order to tie in with the banks own 
borrowing obligations. 
A fixed-rate product will be offered for a certain period of time, until all the funds borrowed for 
that specific product have been used. In order to have the fixed rate they want, applicants 
pay a fee (in this case, Miss K paid £995) to reserve a portion of the funds that are available 
at that rate. When all the funds have been reserved, the interest rate product is withdrawn.
Borrowers dont all apply for the product on the same date, and it would be too complicated 
for the banks own internal systems for there to be separate end dates on a single product. 
So the product will always have a fixed end date which would not necessarily correlate with 
the anniversary of the date the mortgage itself is taken out.
Generally when a mortgage product expires before completion of the mortgage, the 
borrower will need to apply for a new product and pay a new product fee. However, due to 
the unusual circumstances in 2020, NatWest was extending mortgage products. I think this 
was reasonable, because the pandemic had affected the timescales for people to buy and 
sell property. As a result, Miss K didnt need to apply for a new product or pay a new fee 
once she found her new property. 
The November 2020 mortgage offer is clear that the interest rate product expires on 
31 March 2022. Miss K said she never received this, but Im satisfied it was sent to the 
address NatWest had on record at that time as Miss Ks correct address. It wasnt returned 
to NatWest as undelivered.
But in any event, Miss Ks solicitor had a copy of the offer and would, or should, have gone 
through it with Miss K. I would not expect Miss K to have committed herself to the mortgage without first having seen a copy of the mortgage offer and the available evidence persuades 
me that NatWest sent it to the address Miss K had given the bank. Im satisfied the product 
end date is clearly stated in the offer to be 31 March 2022, and so Im unable to find that 
NatWest misled Miss K about when her interest rate product would end. 
I also dont think the slightly lower borrowing due a lower price (compared with the property 
Miss K originally wanted to buy) made any difference to the mortgage interest rate, as the 
loan-to-value ratio was still under 60%, as it was with the first property.
In all the circumstances, after very careful consideration, Im unable to find that NatWest has 
done anything wrong. I know this isnt the outcome Miss K was hoping for, and I am sorry if 
she is disappointed with my conclusions. I see that Miss K has mentioned taking legal action 
against the bank. If Miss K decides not to accept my decision, it wont be legally binding on 
her or NatWest and Miss K will be free to pursue her grievances against the bank in court, 
should she wish to do so. I would suggest Miss K takes advice from a solicitor before taking 
any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman