DRN-2482652
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank Plc filed a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against his name. Mr W would like the marker removed and for Metro Bank 
Plc to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr W attended a branch of Metro on 16 December 2017 and opened a bank account. In 
branch Mr W was issued with a debit card and security details and chose a PIN number 
himself. Metro also took a photo of Mr W while opening the account for identification 
purposes.
In January 2018, Mr W raised four card disputes with Metro. The relevant details around the 
card disputes are below:
Date Amount Comments
3 January 2018 £25.40 Mr W explained he was charged twice in a pub due to 
confusion with paying by contactless and cash.
Metro refunded the full amount.
29 January 2018 £621.40 Mr W said his card was stolen on 26 January 2018 
around 10am and several transactions had been made.
Metro cancelled the old card and issued Mr W with a 
new card. 
Metro refunded the full amount.
19 February 2018 £515 Mr W raised a further dispute regarding a transaction 
which he didnt raise previously (on 29 January 2018). 
Metro rejected the dispute as a fraudulent claim as 
they had received proof that the payment was 
authenticated using Mr Ws registered phone number 
and a known IP address used by Mr W.
21 February 2018 £2,410.95 Mr W disputed all transactions made on the account 
since he opened it. Mr W excluded the account to 
account transfers and faster payments in the disputed 
claims.
Metro rejected the claim.
Following Metros investigation, they issued Mr W with a notice to close letter on 25 February 
2018. Mr W raised a complaint about this to Metro at the time and they issued him with their 
final response in March 2018. 
At the time of making the decision to end their banking relationship with Mr W, Metro 
uploaded Mr Ws details onto the CIFAS database.
Mr W has since attempted to open two accounts with Metro online in September 2019 and 
March 2020. Metro have closed both accounts due to their previous communication of no 
longer wanting to offer Mr W banking facilities.
Mr W contacted Metro in April 2020 requesting them to remove the CIFAS marker. Mr W 
found out about the CIFAS marker after completing a Subject Access Request (SAR) with 
CIFAS directly. Metro refused to remove the marker and sent Mr W their final response on 8 
April 2020.
What Mr W has told us
Mr W told us during a telephone call that he believed hed been a victim of identity theft. 
He told our investigator hed been trying to open an account for around three years and each 
time he opened one, it was closed shortly afterwards. After receiving the SAR from CIFAS, 
Mr W thought the marker Metro had applied was for someone else opening the account 
fraudulently in his name. Mr W confirmed hed opened the account with Metro  not a third 
party.
Mr W explained that while he had the account with Metro, he remembered a few 
transactions had been made which he didnt authorise. Due to the time which had passed, 
Mr W said he couldnt remember the full details of the transactions. Mr W said after that 
Metro told him theyd reviewed his account and decided to close it.
Mr W says he has a young daughter and is struggling because of not having an account.
What Metro have told us
Mr W called Metro on 7 January 2018 and claimed to have no funds in his account but 
thought he should have had around £60. Metro advised they would need to cancel the card 
and raise a card dispute because of the discrepancy but Mr W didnt want Metro to do that 
and said hed call back the next day. 
On 27 January 2018, Mr W telephoned Metro and asked to complete a transfer to an 
existing payee for an amount of £20. Metro advised Mr W his balance was £6.81. Mr W then 
asked to transfer the full amount of £6.81 to the payee. Mr W didnt query his balance at this 
time and therefore Metro find it hard to believe his card was stolen the day before as Mr W 
claims.
When Mr W reported the dispute transactions to Metro on 29 January 2018, he said his card 
was stolen on 26 January 2018 at around 10am. Metro have provided evidence to show the 
IP address used for one of the claims was one which Mr W had used previously. Mr W 
logged onto his online banking on 26 January 2018 at 06:17 and on 27 January at 05:31. 
Metro have explained their online banking platform allows customers to report their cards as 
lost or stolen but Mr W didnt do this during either of his log-ins. 
Some of the transactions raised in the dispute started as early as 06:55 on 26 January 2018 
which contradicts the information Mr W gave as to when his card was stolen (around 10am).
On 5 February 2018, Mr W contacted Metro and asked them to refund two transactions 
which were pending at the time. Mr W gave the same story he had used previously that he 
paid by cash and contactless.
Mr W made a number of account to account transfers during the time he had the account 
open with Metro which he doesnt dispute. Many of these account to account transfers are 
followed by an ATM withdrawal of the same amount which Mr W is disputing. A number of beneficiaries were created during the times when the disputed card 
transactions took place. Metro have explained that in order to create a beneficiary on the 
mobile app, the person would require access to the telephone number registered on the 
account, as well as the actual card which is linked to the account for PAN verification. Mr W 
hasnt disputed the transfers made and therefore Metro believe he would have still been in 
possession of his genuine debit card at the time the transfers were made.
The evidence provided shows that many transactions used the genuine card and PIN. Mr W 
told Metro he has never shared his PIN code with anybody else and hasnt ever written it 
down.
Overall, Metro are satisfied that:
Mr W was in possession of his card throughout the period;
Mr W had access and was aware of his balance through his mobile application and 
online banking platform;
Mr W received refunds from Metro on a couple of occasions and therefore continued 
to raise further card disputes.
Metro have also provided us with the terms and conditions relevant to Mr Ws account at the 
time which allows them to report information to fraud detection organisations. Metro are 
satisfied the marker recorded against Mr W with CIFAS for misuse of facility is correct.
Our investigators view and the parties responses
Our investigator initially reviewed Mr Ws complaint and thought Metro had acted in line with 
their legal and regulatory obligations when they recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr W.
Metro agreed with the investigators view. Mr W disagreed. He disputed that parts of the 
investigators view were incorrect. Mr W asked for a fair trial and therefore the complaint 
has been passed to me to review.
In December 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, Im 
likely to come to the same conclusions as the investigator overall.  Ive expanded on the 
reasons in my decision and therefore I think its important both parties have the opportunity 
to respond before I make my final decision.
Metro applied the CIFAS marker as they believed Mr W made false accusations of disputed 
transactions. So Ive looked at whether it was fair of Metro to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence and what the rules say about applying such markers. 
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently (a misuse of facility 
marker). This type of marker will stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult 
for a customer to take out new financial products as Mr W has encountered. If a business 
decides to file a marker it must have evidence and meet CIFASs standard of proof. 
To meet the standard of proof the business must have: 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or 
attempted; 
and clear, relevant and rigorous evidence such that the business could confidently 
report the conduct of the customer to the police. The conduct of the customer must also meet the criteria of the type of marker (in this case, 
the criteria for the misuse of facility marker), and the business must usually have rejected, 
withdrawn or terminated a financial product on the basis of fraud. This means that a 
business shouldnt apply the marker on the basis of its suspicions only. 
Having reviewed Mr Ws account of events and the evidence Metro have provided, Im 
currently satisfied that Metro have sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded 
on his file. I say this for the following reasons: 
 Metro Bank have provided evidence to show it was Mr W who opened the account in 
branch  and therefore, it was him who chose his own PIN;
Mr W has confirmed he didnt share his PIN details with anybody and he didnt write 
them down  therefore I find it unlikely that somebody stole his debit card to make the 
transactions because theres no reasonable explanation of how an unknown third party 
would have known Mr Ws PIN;
Mr W did not report his first debit card lost or stolen until 29 January 2018 despite having 
logged on to his mobile banking on at least two occasions before this date and after the 
date he claims the card was lost or stolen; 
Mr W has disputed all of the transactions on his account apart from the account to 
account transfers. Ive seen that new payees were set up during the same time as some 
of the disputed transactions. Metro have explained Mr W would have needed his card to 
set up the new payees and therefore I find it difficult to believe Mr W didnt have access 
to his card at these times seeing as he hasnt disputed the transfers;
Overall, I think its more likely than not Mr W made all of the transactions since the account 
opening. I see no other explanation as to how Mr W could have had his card lost or stolen 
but continue to set up payees and make transfers between his accounts. Im also not 
satisfied that there has ever been a point of compromise with Mr Ws PIN for anybody else to 
carry out these disputed transactions.
Taking everything into account, I find that Metro have met the burden of proof required by 
CIFAS to file the marker. So, Im not going to ask them to remove it.
So I didnt think Metro had to do anything differently.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he said Metro were relying on 
assumptions and presumptions. Mr W also said he was suffering with his mental health at 
the time and couldnt manage his finances well. Mr W thinks Metro need to have factual 
information to rely on. Mr W said he needs the CIFAS marker removed as it isnt true or fair.
Metro responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. They didnt have any further 
information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how difficult it must be that Mr W finds himself with this CIFAS marker, and I 
dont doubt it is causing him difficulty. However, in order to ask Metro to remove the marker, 
I must be convinced they applied it unfairly. And I cant agree thats the case.
I explained in my provisional decision that I think its more likely than not Mr W did make the 
transactions  and there was no reasonable explanation as to how Mr W could have had his 
card lost or stolen but continue to set up payees and make transfers between his accounts. And thats because he needed the genuine card to do that. Mr W has also told us he didnt 
share his PIN with anybody, so I cant fairly agree there was a point of compromise as to 
when his PIN was found out by a third party to make transactions without his consent.
Mr W has said he was suffering with his mental health at the time and couldnt manage his 
finances. Im really sorry to hear this. However, I cant fairly uphold his complaint on that 
point alone. While I dont doubt what Mr W has said, I dont agree that excuses his financial 
behaviour at the time. And as I found and explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that Metro met the burden of proof required by CIFAS to file the marker against Mr W. And 
therefore, I wont be asking them to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman