DRN-3619428
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs W complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money), unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
What happened
Mr D and Mrs W have brought their complaint to this service with the assistance of a 
professional representative (SL).
In September 2006 Mr D and Mrs W bought a timeshare product from a timeshare provider, 
Company A. The timeshare was part financed by a loan with GE Money. They borrowed 
£22,059 to be repaid over a period of 10 years. The loan was settled early in August 2011.
In 2021 with the assistance of SL, Mr D and Mrs W made a claim against GE Money  
because of problems they said they had with their time share. They said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented.
GE Money failed to carry out adequate checks when the loan application was 
made to fund the timeshare.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU directive.
The associated loan agreement was null and void too due to breaches of the 
CCA and the Unfair Contract Terms in Consumer Regulations 1999.
GE Money didnt accept the claim. It said the claim for misrepresentation and affordability 
had been brought too late and were time barred under the relevant provisions contained 
within the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and said that they didnt think GE Money needed to 
do anything else in relation to the claim. He agreed the claim under s.75 and s.140A of the 
CCA had been brought too late and he didnt think GE Money needed to consider the 
substance of the claim. He also didnt think this service could consider the complaint point 
about the lending as the loan was organised before this was a regulated activity.
SL, on Mr D and Mrs Ws behalf responded to say it didnt agree. It explained why it felt the 
LA and the time limits of this shouldnt be applied. They argued that the complaint had 
been made within the 3 years date of knowledge rule. It also said the main point it was 
relying on was that the agreement was null and void due to the timeshare being null and 
void because of EU law. It asked that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman and these 
points considered. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2022. I said I was planning on 
reaching the same outcome as our investigator but for slightly different reasons. My 
provisional decision said the following:
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr D and Mrs W say that Company A misrepresented the nature of the membership to 
them. However, under s.9 LA, they had to make a claim within six years of when they 
entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  this was September 2006. This is 
because this is the point in time when they say they would have lost out by relying on false 
statements of fact.
Mr D and Mrs W didnt bring a claim until March 2021. This is outside of the time limit set 
out in the LA and I dont think because of this, that GE Money has made an unfair claim 
decision when its said the claim was brought too late.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Although only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
As with s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to s.140A CCA. Under s.9LA, Mr D and Mrs W 
needed to make a claim within six years of the date when the loan ended. The loan was 
taken out over 10 years but repaid early in August 2011. As the claim wasnt made until
March 2021, it was outside the time limit that applies and was made too late.
Could the limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limit in certain circumstances. But having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I dont think the time limits set out above could be 
extended under the provisions of the LA.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between the debtor and creditor 
arising from the credit agreement  taken together with any related agreement. But once 
the loan is repaid in full, the agreement ends, as does Mr D and Mrs Ws relationship with 
GE Money.
As it is only the relationship between GE Money and Mr D and Mrs W that could be found
unfair, limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
SL has said it thinks the LA could be extended by s.14A LA. But I dont think GE Money or 
Company A owed a duty of care or provided any advice that could give rise to a claim to 
which s.14A LA could apply.
SL has also said Mr D and Mrs W were only aware that the timeshare agreement was 
voidable when they were contacted by SL. This is the point in time when they became 
aware of the complaint and it has quoted the 3-year knowledge rule.
The rules and three years SL are referring to are part of the time limits within which a 
consumer needs to complain to a business about a regulated financial activity. Those 
rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) governed complaint handling, which in 
the current context, is a complaint that GE Money unfairly turned down their claim. But the 
reason it decided to turn down the claim was because it didnt think it was legally liable 
due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I have considered that legislation. This isnt 
an extension of the LA and not something that changes my decision on whether GE 
Moneys response to the claim was fair.
Is the timeshare and loan agreement voidable?SL have argued the timeshare agreement with Company A is null and void which means 
the related credit agreement with GE Money was voidable. Mr D and Mrs W now wish to 
rescind the agreement because of this. If the timeshare agreement was voidable, I think 
its likely the loan agreement was also voidable on the recission of the agreement it was 
used to fund. This is something that can be considered under s.140A CCA, but for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I think that claim was brought too late. But it could be a 
freestanding claim, so I have considered this below.
SL says an EU Directive, some Spanish law and a Spanish court judgement demonstrate 
that the timeshare agreement sold by Company A is null and void. This is because the 
timeshare provides a number of points that could be used towards accommodation for 
holidays with the supplier. They feel because this is a floating week the agreement is 
voidable. I dont agree this is the case or that the timeshare agreement is voidable.
There has been little provided by Mr D and Mrs W or SL which details the agreement with 
Company A. But we have been provided with the membership certificate. This shows that 
Company A is registered in England and is governed by English law. So I dont see why the 
Spanish legislation or caselaw highlighted would have any bearing on this. Ive not seen 
anything to show the approach taken here has been adopted into English law or that a court 
would likely follow this approach.
SL hasnt highlighted where, within the EU Directive referenced, that this gives rise to the 
ability to void the timeshare agreement with Company A. And Ive not been directed to any 
provision with English law either that enacts this EU Directive. So based on what Ive seen 
so far, I dont agree that the legislation or caselaw highlighted would have the effect that 
SL believes it would on the timeshare agreement or related credit agreement with GE 
Money.
I think it is also worth highlighting that in the recent House of Commons Library Briefing 
paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners (5 January 2022), a floating 
week or points based timeshare are referenced as basic timeshare models, not described 
as a problem. And these types of agreement fall within the definition of a timeshare in the 
Timeshare Regulations 2010. So I dont think either the timeshare or related credit 
agreement with GE Money is voidable.
The lending decision
SL also complain that GE Money was irresponsible to provide the loan as proper credit 
checks werent completed at the time. The loan was taken out in September 2006, but our 
service didnt get jurisdiction to consider complaints about decisions to lend in these 
circumstances until April 2007. So I am not able to consider this part of the complaint as the 
decision to lend was made at a time which, falls outside of the time in which I can consider 
complaints about lending.
Overall, I dont think GE Money has acted unfairly when handling Mr Ds and Mrs Ws claim
under the CCA and I dont plan on asking it to do anything else in relation to this.
I asked all parties to respond with any further comments or arguments by the 11 August. 
Both GE Money and SL have provided their responses early.
GE Money responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
SL, on behalf of Mr D and Mrs W responded to say it disagreed with my proposed outcome. 
It still felt the time limit should be extended via the application of s.14A LA. SL said that It believed Company A failed to comply with the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 
Act) later repealed and replaced by the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 . 
Specifically, it said Company A had failed to provide information about accommodation that 
was accurate. And it failed to provide information about the withdrawal/cancellation period. 
Under the 1992 Act, a failure to provide this information meant Company A couldnt request 
or accept any payment before the withdrawal period had ended. GE Money made payments 
to Company A during the withdrawal period, it  felt this was in breach of the 1992 Act. 
SL says GE Money owed Mr D and Mrs W a duty of care to ensure that it and Company A 
didnt breach the 1992 Act. When this was breached, it failed in its duty of care to them. It 
felt this could be considered negligence.   
SL said Mr D and Mrs W had no knowledge of the breach or negligence until SL was 
engaged to represent them in January 2021. It feels this is the point in time the limitation 
period commenced under s.14A of the LA.
SL made no further comments on the agreement being voidable or provided any further 
response on the lending decision taken by GE Money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of the law, regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and
codes of good industry practice, when making my decision. I also must think about what is
material to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. So although Ive considered everything
thats been provided on this case, Ive only addressed the points I consider relevant to this.
Having reconsidered all the evidence on this complaint and the new information provided, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
The s.75 and s.140A CCA claim
As I explained previously, I believe both the claim made under s.75 and s.140A of the CCA 
were made to late. I believe GE Money has acted fairly when applying and relying on the 
time limitations contained within the LA. I see no reason to depart from, or repeat my 
provisional findings set out above.
Could the limitation be extended?
SL have highlighted how it feels the actions of GE Money providing the loan to Company A 
in payment of the timeshare when it did amounts to a breach of the duty of care it owed Mr D 
and Mrs W. It feels this constitutes negligence which extends the limitation period under 
s.14A LA.
Ive thought about what SL has said about this, but Im not convinced the actions taken 
would amount to a breach of the requirements. But even if I did, Id first need to be satisfied 
that Mr D and Mrs W have a cause in negligence against GE Money  so did it owe a duty of 
care to them which gives rise to such a claim. 
I said previously that I dont think GE Money had such a duty. But Ive thought whether it did 
have a duty to protect its customers from buying timeshare products that may have been non-compliant with the 1992 Act with credit. So was it required to undertake due diligence 
into the sale process of Company A.
Ive not been provided with anything to persuade me that such a duty of care would exist or 
that it can be established. So in the absence of this, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision on this point.
Is the timeshare and loan agreement voidable? 
Neither party has provided anything further on this point, so I see no reason to depart from 
the provisional findings set out above.
The lending decision 
As with the above, neither party has provided any further points on this. So I see no reason 
to depart from the provisional findings set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman