DRN-3739961
The complaint
Mrs U complains Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave her a loan 
which she couldnt afford to repay due to having other outstanding loans at the time. 
What happened
Mrs U was advanced one instalment from Shelby on 23 July 2021. She was advanced 
£1,000 and she was contracted to make nine monthly repayments of £216.98. 
Mrs U has had some problems repaying her loan and as of April 2022 an outstanding 
balance remained due. 
Following Mrs Us complaint Shelby wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold her 
complaint because it carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mrs U would be in a 
position to afford her loan repayments. 
Mrs U, unhappy with this response, referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said the information 
Shelby gathered from Mrs U (income and expenditure) showed she was able to afford the 
loan and he couldnt see anything within the checks which may have indicated Mrs U 
couldnt sustainably make her repayments.  
Shelby didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mrs U didnt agree with the proposed outcome because she applied for other loans (from 
other lender(s)) around this time and her complaints about those loans have been upheld, 
So, she wasnt sure why the complaint about her Shelby loan wasnt upheld too. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mrs U could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Us 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs U. These factors include:
Mrs U having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs U having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs U coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs U.
Shelby was required to establish whether Mrs U could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs U was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Us complaint.
For this loan Mrs U declared she had a monthly income of £1,984 and she declared monthly 
outgoings of £480. This left, Mrs U with £1,504 of monthly disposable income to be able to 
afford the contractual repayments. 
However, as part of Shelbys checks it used Mrs Us  income and expenditure 
accordingly, where appropriate we have overlaid some data with figures provided as 
guidance from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) and your credit file
Having done that, Shelby increased Mrs Us outgoings to £1,244 per month. Using these 
figures for its affordability assessment, Shelby believed Mrs U had around £740 of 
disposable income to afford her repayments. 
Regardless of which income and expenditure information is considered  the amounts 
declared by Mrs U as part of her application or the figures used by Shelby following its 
further checks, I think it was reasonable for it to have believed that Mrs U would be able to 
afford the repayments of around £216 a month. 
Shelby has also said, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the results that it received from the credit reference agency. 
It is worth saying that there was no requirement within the regulations at the time to have 
carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. The data that Shelby 
received may also not be the same as the information Mrs U can see on her credit report 
which she can obtain. There are a number of reasons for this, for examples, delays by other 
lenders in reporting information to the credit reference agencies. But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning 
information that it may have seen. But it is entitled to rely on the information it received from 
the credit reference agency. 
Looking at the summary provided by Shelby, Im satisfied that there wasnt anything that 
wouldve prompted Shelby to carry out further checks. There had been no defaults recorded 
within the last 12 months and there doesnt appear to have been any other delinquent 
markers recorded in this time either. There also, in my view, no other indicators that Mrs U 
was having difficulties, for example there is no evidence of her taking lots of new credit or 
having any outstanding payday loans. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
Shelby to have relied on the information Mrs U provided. This along with the income and
expenditure figures showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments 
she was committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mrs Us complaint 
about this loan.
Ive thought about the comments Mrs U has provided but they dont change my view of the 
case. For example, Mrs U may have had complaints about other loans upheld around the 
time of this Shelby loan. But a number of factors would have played a part in any decision to 
uphold a complaint. Including, but not limited to, the value of the loan, what any lender found 
out about Mrs U and how many loans Mrs U had taken from that company. In the individual 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied based on everything Ive seen that Shelby carried 
out a proportionate check before lending to her. 
Due to an outstanding balance remaining (according to the most recent information I have) I 
would encourage both parties to discuss the outstanding debt that is due and I would remind 
Shelby of its obligation to treat Mrs U fairly and with forbearance with discussing away 
forward. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Us complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman