DRN-1069150
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decline of his travel insurance claim and its 
service.  
What happened
Mr M took a four day trip to Europe in February 2019. Mr M says that on the morning of his 
flight home he realised one of his bags was missing from his hotel room. He told us he 
spoke to the hotel reception about the bag, left the hotel to catch his flight and emailed the 
hotel about the bag when he arrived home. The bag wasnt found and Mr M claimed on his 
travel insurance policy for items worth over £1,700.
AXA declined the claim. It said Mr M hadnt reported the theft to the police, as the policy 
required. The hotel told AXA that it didnt have any record of Mr M reporting the theft. AXA 
was also concerned that Mr M had made a similar claim in November 2018.
Mr M complains that AXA indirectly said the claim was fraudulent, which he said there was 
no evidence for. He says AXA ignored his email exchange with the hotel reporting the bag 
had been lost. He also complains about AXAs service; that it delayed, was rude to him and 
brought his character into disrepute. He wants AXA to pay the claim, pay £750 
compensation for the stress and depression he says it caused him, and to give a written 
apology. AXA doesnt accept it gave poor service.
Our investigator thought AXA fairly declined the claim and gave reasonable service.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said AXA accepted a police report 
wasnt needed. He sent us two final response letters from AXA which he thought supported 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive seen the information Mr M sent us which he says shows AXA has poor customer 
reviews on how it deals with claims. But I have to decide whether AXA fairly declined Mr Ms 
claim and gave reasonable service in the circumstances of his claim, and I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
The policy is clear that before making a claim:
1) You must report any theft to the police in the country where the theft occurred as soon as 
possible and get a crime reference number or incident report2) You must report any loss, theft or damage while in the care of a carrier, transport 
company, authority, hotel or accommodation provider and get a written record of the event.
Mr M didnt report the theft to the police. From the information he gave AXA about when he 
last saw the bag I think there would have been time for him to have reported the theft to the 
police. But AXA didn't just rely on the lack of a police report to decline the claim.
AXAs final response letter to Mr M about the claim didnt say it wouldnt take into account 
that there was no police report. It said as he hadnt reported the theft to the police it had 
considered other evidence, which I think was fair to do. 
Ive seen the exchange of emails Mr M said was between him and the hotel about the 
missing bag. But I've also seen evidence that the hotel told AXA, in a call and in writing, that 
it had no record of the bag being reported as lost or stolen. Given the hotels direct evidence 
I think AXA had reasonable concerns about the validity of the emails Mr M said were 
between him and the hotel.
Overall Im satisfied AXA fairly declined the claim.
I dont think AXA gave Mr M poor service or spoke to him rudely. AXA had reasonable 
concerns about the claim particularly given that Mr M had made a similar claim a couple of 
months before. 
Insurance companies have a responsibility to investigate claims to prevent fraud and AXA 
acted fairly in asking Mr M about the previous claim as part of assessing this claim. In the 
interview call AXAs representative asked Mr M questions in an appropriate manner.
AXA didnt unnecessarily delay in declining the claim. Given its concerns it made additional 
reasonable enquires which inevitably took time. 
The rules under which we operate say a business has eight weeks to issue a final response 
letter after a consumer complains. AXAs final response letter to Mr M about how it dealt with 
his complaint doesnt accept it gave poor service. Even if the letter was slightly outside the 
eight weeks timescale that didnt disadvantage Mr M as once the time had passed he could 
complain to us. 
Theres no basis for me to say AXA should pay any compensation to Mr M for any distress 
and inconvenience he had.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman