DRN-3179060
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mrs T and Mr T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around December 2016, Mrs T and Mr T were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs T and Mr T decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In September 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mrs T and Mr Ts behalf under section 75 of 
the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs T and Mr T to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system wouldnt cost them anything and would provide a substantial income 
over the lifespan of the system  which is generally 25 years; and
additional energy savings would be made from other items supplied such as a 
voltage optimiser; and
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by saving made on energy bills and 
the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments; and
the salesperson used pressurised sales tactics to induce Mrs T and Mr T to purchase 
the system; and
Mrs T and Mr T were told the system wouldnt need maintenance over its 25-year 
lifespan; and
the system isnt performing as expected.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mrs T, Mr T and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs T and Mr T or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs T and Mr T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. It questioned the length of time taken for 
the loan to be repaid when compared to the suggested time before the system pays for itself 
from energy savings and FIT payments. It also questioned why Mrs T and Mr T would 
purchase a product for which they would receive no benefit.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs T and Mr T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs T and Mr T could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs T, Mr 
T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement,
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement,
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs T and Mr Ts recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Mrs T and Mr T have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and energy savings. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P and whether this supports what Mrs T and Mr T have said.
FIT payments
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs T and Mr T could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs T and Mr T could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £163.68.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs T and Mr T could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £291.14 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by Mrs T and Mr T, the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £606.02. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs T and Mr T entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £90.82. For each year of the 15-year loan, it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £90.82 to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs T and Mr T could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. While I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs T and Mr T that the system would self-funding when 
including the expected energy savings.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs T and Mr T were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by year 17 the overall benefits that Mrs T and Mr T could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs T and Mr T that the system would pay for 
itself by year 17 as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs T and Mr T. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,534.50 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs T and Mr Ts FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,737.88 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs T and Mr 
T couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs T and Mr T entered into 
the contract.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Sales pressure
Concerns have been raised that as part of Ps sales process, pressure was exerted upon 
Mrs T and Mr T to enter into the agreement to purchase the system. Im aware of previous 
allegations which were investigated and addressed by Trading Standards. These relate to 
circumstances predating the sales process and purchase in Mrs T and Mr Ts case. This 
service has been provided with assurances that those concerns were addressed and 
remedied, in co-operation with Trading Standards, prior to Ps sale to Mrs T and Mr T.
Im also satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve been 
discussed with Mrs T and Mr T, which the original complaint supports, and so Ive not been persuaded that the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been 
contradicted by the quote. To support this, Im satisfied that the Mrs T and Mr T were sent 
the quote, had time to consider it and to raise any issues prior to installation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs T and Mr 
T to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman