DRN-4110612
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the surveys they arranged through Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Colleys were misleading as to the boundaries of the property they went on to purchase.
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs C applied for a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. During the mortgage 
process, Colleys (Bank of Scotlands in-house surveyor at the time) undertook a property 
valuation and a Homebuyers survey. 
The Homebuyers survey and valuation report included a description of what appeared to be 
the boundaries of the property and the surveyors commentary on the condition of the land to 
the front and side of the property.
Some years after purchasing the property, Mr and Mrs C received a letter from their local 
council saying that they were encroaching on council land. It transpired that the propertys 
Title Deeds showed that the land to the front and side of the property (including the driveway 
theyd been using) were not part of the property.
Mr and Mrs C purchased the land in dispute from the council at a cost of around £10,000. 
They say they had already committed to selling the property and to moving area, so they 
needed to sort the issue out quickly.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Bank of Scotland and said that the survey was misleading as to 
the propertys boundaries and that they wouldnt have bought the property if they had known 
the front garden and driveway werent included in the purchase.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the complaint  it said the surveyor would have assessed the 
condition of the property as it was presented but wouldnt be responsible for checking the 
boundaries. It said it was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor to conduct legal 
searches on the property and flag any issues.
When Mr and Mrs C complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
In summary they said that Bank of Scotland had used a suitably qualified surveyor and that 
they werent required to check the Title Deeds or legal boundaries of the property as part of 
the survey.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, they didnt think a professional surveyor should have made 
assumptions when writing their report. And that the surveyors error reinforced their belief 
that the land was included in the propertys boundaries. 
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
For completeness, Im considering this complaint on the basis that in the 
circumstances the surveys here are ancillary to the lending activity. This is because 
both surveys were arranged by (including fees paid to) Bank of Scotland, with the 
report also carried out by Bank of Scotland in connection to Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage. I understand this isnt in dispute. 
Bank of Scotland used a suitably qualified surveyor who was a member of The Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)  this is a well-recognised professional body. 
RICSs provide guidance on mandatory and good practice standards, neither of which 
required a surveyor to confirm the boundaries of the property against the Title Deeds 
as part of a valuation or Homebuyers report. 
The purpose of the valuation was to satisfy Bank of Scotland that the property was 
suitable security for the lending. 
When it came to the Homebuyers survey, the surveyors role was limited to a visual 
inspection of the property. The expectation was for the surveyor to highlight the 
condition of the property and any potential issues identified as part of that visual 
inspection. So, I dont think it was wrong for the surveyor to comment on the 
condition of what they saw, for example the condition of fencing etc. It was not the 
surveyors role to confirm the legal boundaries of the property.
I appreciate that in the context of the property advert (which Mr and Mrs C have said 
was inaccurate) and how the previous owner was using the property, Mr and Mrs C 
were under the impression that the land to the front and side of the property was 
included in their purchase. But I dont think it would be fair to hold Bank of Scotland 
responsible for this misunderstanding, as ultimately it was not the surveyors role to 
confirm the property boundaries. 
During the purchase of a property it is the responsibility of the buyers solicitor/ 
conveyancer to carry out relevant searches and check the Title Deeds on their 
customers behalf to identify any legal issues. I understand here that there is a 
dispute between Mr and Mrs C and their solicitor about whether the boundary 
highlighted on the copy of the title deeds was clear (and in colour) on the copy sent 
to them, but this is a separate matter.
So, for the reasons explained I dont think it would be fair to hold Bank of Scotland 
responsible for the additional costs Mr and Mrs C incurred as a result of the boundary 
dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman