DRN-4371355
The complaint
Mr H says NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card in September 2019. It was approved with a limit of £450. In 
February 2022 this was increased to £1,450.
Mr H says NewDay should never have increased his limit as he was already struggling to 
make regular repayments. He wasnt in regular work in 2022 and he says NewDay did not 
complete proper checks at this time. This has all impacted his mental health.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said NewDay ought to have rechecked 
Mr Hs income in February 2022 but as Mr H had not sent in the information he had 
requested he could not conclude NewDay had made an unfair lending decision. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he was 
unemployed by February 2022 so how could the increase have been reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit it was giving to Mr H was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Mr H, how much he had to repay
(Including interest and charges) each month, his borrowing history with it and what it knew
about his circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
Mr H has complained specifically about the limit increase but as the steps NewDay took 
when he applied have bearing on what it then did when it increased his limit I will comment 
here on both lending decisions. This service has an inquisitorial remit which allows me to 
consider the subject matter of a complaint as a whole. And NewDay has submitted 
information on both lending decisions.
This means to reach my conclusion I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Mr Hs card application and limit increase; if so, did it make a fair 
lending decision based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would 
most likely have shown.
 
When Mr H applied for the credit card NewDay asked about his gross annual income. It 
carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and existing credit commitments. 
I think these checks were proportionate given the limit NewDay allocated. And NewDay has 
shared the results of these checks and I cant see they showed anything that ought to have 
concerned the lender.
When NewDay increased Mr Hs limit it used his account history and again reviewed his 
external credit management. But I cant see it did anything to check his income, or broader 
financial circumstances  and it was over two years since he had applied. The limit increase 
was also substantial  it was giving over three times the amount of credit. And I am not 
persuaded reviewing solely how Mr H had managed a lower limit to date gave the required 
assurances that he could sustainably afford a higher limit. I do note there was nothing in the 
credit checks it did complete that indicated Mr H was under financial pressure  he had no 
accounts in arrears or on reduced payment plans and was up-to-date and within limit on his 
Aqua card. However, in the round, I dont think the checks for the limit increase were 
proportionate.
In such circumstances we look at bank statements from the months prior to the increase to 
build a picture of the customers financial circumstances at the time. I am not saying 
NewDay had to do exactly this but it is a reliable was for me to understand what better 
checks would have most likely shown the lender. However, Mr H has been unable to provide 
us with this information. This means I cannot fairly conclude that better checks would have 
led NewDay to make a different lending decision.
It follows, based on the available evidence, I cannot conclude NewDay was wrong to 
increase Mr Hs credit limit.
Did NewDay act unfairly towards Mr H in some other way?
Mr H is unhappy NewDay sent him a default notice in October 2022. I can see Mr H 
contacted NewDay in August 2022 as he was no longer working and was having financial 
difficulties. It says at this time it offered breathing space and placed his account on hold until 
it then closed it on 7 November 2022. Mr H agreed a payment plan with its internal recovery 
team in February 2023. I think its actions were reasonable  typically we think it wouldnt be 
fair if the lender didnt send a notice of default by the point its clear the borrower wasnt able 
to make their contractual payments.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman