DRN-1724346
The complaint
Mr T complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) has unfairly declined his claim for subsidence damage to his driveway and 
concrete slab. 
What happened
Mr T made an insurance claim with NFU for subsidence in July 2018 after discovering 
various areas of damage around his property. NFU sent its experts to investigate and 
produce a report on the damage and its likely cause. It found the cause was likely to be two 
nearby trees, that were drawing moisture from the soil and causing subsidence. Mr T 
arranged to remove the trees himself and negotiated a cash settlement for the repairs to the 
property. 
Mr T had some concerns around NFUs experts not assessing all the damage and felt it 
hadnt inspected damage to his driveway and concrete paved area near the property. He 
arranged for a third-party expert to produce an independent report in September 2018. This 
concluded that his driveway, the concrete slab and his conservatory were being affected by 
subsidence and should be re-assessed by NFU. 
NFU carried out some further investigations after considering this report but declined to take 
any further action. It said there was no evidence of ongoing subsidence affecting the 
conservatory, this was historic. It also said that the damage to the driveway and concrete 
slab were excluded under the policy terms. 
Mr T complained to NFU. He accepted what itd said about his conservatory but felt that the 
concrete slab and his driveway should be covered. 
NFU didnt uphold his complaint. It said the damage to the driveway and concrete slab was 
not caused by the same trees that had caused the damage to the home, and a policy 
exclusion applied. However, it did accept that there had been delays of around two months 
in communicating this to Mr T. It offered £250 in recognition of the poor service, which he 
accepted.  
An investigator at this service looked at the complaint about the areas of the claim that had 
been declined but didnt uphold it. He felt the NFU had applied the exclusion correctly, in that 
the cause of the subsidence affecting the property was different to that of the slab and 
driveway. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said that the policy wording was ambiguous and had been unfairly 
interpreted in a way that benefited the insurer. And hes since provided some further reports 
from his experts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most home insurance policies, Mr Ts policy provides cover for damage to his property 
caused by subsidence. His policy booklet confirms and provides the specific terms. Its also 
confirmed within the booklet that the policy excludes any damage to walls, gates, fences, 
hedges, swimming pools, glasshouses, terraces, tennis hard courts, drives unless the home 
has been damaged at the same time by the same cause. 
The crux of the dispute is whether NFU should be covering the subsidence damage to Mr 
Bs driveway and concrete slab. NFU says no because the damage hasnt been caused by 
the same event as that which caused damage to the home. Mr T says the policy wording is 
ambiguous and so the wording should be interpreted in his favour as the non-drafting party.
The first step is to consider the basis of the insurance agreement as stated in the policy 
documentation terms and conditions. There is a specific what is not insured section to 
subsidence cover for drives unless the home has been damaged at the same time by the 
same cause.  
The initial investigative reports indicated that two trees were likely causing the damage to the 
house. It was recommended that these be removed, and Mr T did this. But because of their 
location, NFU didnt think it likely these could be the cause of the damage to the driveway 
and slab as these are a considerable distance away. Indeed, Mr Ts own appointed expert 
accepted as such, and considered the cause was related to clay shrinkage exacerbated by 
vegetation. Some bushes on a neighbouring property were thought to be the most likely 
cause of this damage. 
And since our investigator had been involved, Mr Ts third-party expert forwarded on some 
additional reports. I can see that their reports confirmed the subsidence to the driveway is 
from a different source - the nearby bushes as opposed to the trees that were damaging the 
main property. 
Mr Ts experts have said they feel that the policy wording isnt clear enough, as the cause of 
the subsidence was the same for both areas  it was caused by vegetation drawing water 
from the soil. They accept it wasnt the same vegetation, but the underlying process in which 
the subsidence occurred was the same. And, as the policy wording didnt clearly state the 
same proximate cause, it was ambiguous and could be interpreted either way.  
Interpreting the contract is to be done objectively and based on the contract as a whole. I 
think the logical and common-sense interpretation of the policy terms is that subsidence 
damage to a driveway is only covered if the home itself also suffers damage at the same 
time from the same cause. In Mr Ts case there are two independent causes of subsidence 
affecting different and individual areas. The driveway and concrete slab are not linked or 
related to the damage caused by fruit trees that affected the house. So, as the cause of the 
damage to the driveway and concrete slab are not a result of the identified tree root induced 
damage to the house, Im satisfied Mr Ts policy doesnt cover him in this instance.
I do appreciate this will be upsetting for Mr T, as I know the quotation for the damage to the 
driveway is substantial. But based on everything Ive seen Im not persuaded that NFU has 
acted unfairly in declining this claim based on the terms of the home insurance policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman