DRN-2607744
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined a claim and cancelled his 
home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr R contacted Amtrust to make a claim for a fire and theft at a property he used to live in 
and now rented out. When Amtrust investigated the claim, it declined the part related to the 
theft and cancelled Mr Rs policy. Amtrust said that part of the claim was fraudulent and that 
it was deliberate and intended to deceive.
Mr R complained to Amtrust. When Amtrust replied, it maintained its decision to decline that 
part of the claim and cancel the policy on the basis of fraud. So, Mr R complained to this 
service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that Amtrust hadnt done enough to 
investigate the circumstances around the TV. As a result, she said Amtrust should reinstate 
the policy and continue its enquiries. It should also remove the fraud marker from internal 
and external databases and pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
As Amtrust did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When noting that a policyholder has breached the fraud condition of their policy, Amtrust 
need to show it was more likely than not that the policyholder was dishonestly attempting to 
gain something they were not entitled to. So, Ive considered the information Amtrust used to 
make its decision, to decide whether this was reasonable based on the evidence.
Mr R made an insurance claim for a fire in a separate garage that formed part of the rental 
property and for the theft of a TV and playstation that he said were stolen from the house 
itself. Amtrust declined the theft part of the claim and cancelled the policy on the basis of 
fraud, as it said there wasnt evidence to show that the TV was present at the property or 
stolen from it. This was because the TV Mr R said was stolen had only been bought a month 
before the incident. Mr R said he had bought the TV to replace a TV already at the property 
that had broken. He said hed had to replace the broken TV because it formed part of the 
tenancy agreement.
Ive looked at Amtrusts investigation and Mr Rs explanation of what happened. Ive seen a 
receipt, dated a month before the incident at Mr Rs home, for a TV matching the description 
of the one that was stolen. The receipt was in someone elses name. Mr R said that it was in 
his brothers name because he was able to get a discount on the TV. Amtrusts investigators 
timeline of the events listed a date two days after the TV was purchased and said Purchase 
value of Toshiba television debited from the Insured's bank account. I havent seen that 
evidence, but it seems that Amtrusts investigator did. But, I think that Amtrust saw evidence 
that Mr R paid for the TV and that this more likely than not suggested that he was the owner 
of it, even if the receipt wasnt in his name.
So, the issue is whether Amtrust has done enough for it reasonably to decide that the TV 
wasnt stolen from the rental property.
Mr R said that he used to live in the house and that he had left most of his property there 
when he rented it out, as there wasnt room for it where he moved to. When the tenant who 
lived there at the time of the fire moved in, Mr R said it was agreed that most of the property 
would be moved to the garage as the tenant had his own possessions. But, the tenant 
wanted to use Mr Rs TV and playstation, so these remained in the house. Mr R said that 
this was why the tenant paid additional money for the property being furnished.
Amtrust asked Mr R for a tenancy agreement and an inventory from when the tenant moved 
in. Mr R provided the tenancy agreement, but said there was no inventory. The tenancy 
agreement showed the rent amount and a separate figure of £75 for fully furnished. The 
tenancy agreement didnt give any details of any items in the house or what the property 
being fully furnished meant. Mr R said that the payment for the property being fully furnished 
was for the TV and playstation. 
I understand that Amtrust had some issues with contacting the tenant. This seems to have 
caused issues with Amtrust confirming some of the details of what happened and what was 
in the property. However, when Amtrust briefly spoke to the tenant, he confirmed that the TV 
had been in the house and that he wasnt there when the house was broken into.  
Amtrust seemed to put some weight on the fact that there was a small low table in the living 
room that it didnt think would be big enough for the size of the TV. Mr R said the TV was on 
the floor and the playstation was on the table. Amtrust didnt seem to find this credible. 
However, this is the type of information that could have been checked with the tenant and I 
cant see that it was Mr Rs fault if Amtrust didnt check this or was unable to do so. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the tenants lack of cooperation was down to the actions of Mr R. 
Amtrust obtained both the police and fire service reports. Neither of these included any 
reference to a break in or items being stolen. Mr R said it was the fire service that found the 
break in and secured the house. However, the report was about the arson and the 
circumstances of that. It isnt clear to me whether Amtrust investigated if the fire service 
would record information about replacing a lock on a house if the fire was located elsewhere, 
in this instance in a separate garage.
Looking at the police report, it seems the police attended at the request of the fire service 
because it thought the fire was malicious. The police report didnt include a statement from 
Mr R, but does say that there were no other offences linked to the incident. I also havent 
seen anything to show that Amtrust investigated whether the police would necessarily have 
been aware of a break in at the house when they attended about the fire or that it properly 
established why Mr R didnt seem to report it to the police afterwards. 
So, thinking about the above, I dont think Amtrust did enough to show that the claim for the 
TV was fraudulent. I think that Amtrusts investigation showed that the TV could have been 
at the property. I think that Amtrust also failed to properly establish whether the fire service 
and police reports lack of reference to a break in at the property and items being stolen 
meant that there was no break in or whether there were other reasons why it might not have 
been recorded in the paperwork. Without Amtrust further investigating what did or didnt 
happen and why, I dont think it was reasonable for it to decline the claim or cancel the policy 
on the basis of fraud.
Im aware that Mr R has also said that Amtrust should pay his claim. I havent made a finding 
on this because Amtrust doesnt seem to have considered whether the claim would have 
been accepted if it hadnt declined it on the basis of fraud. I think Amtrust should have the opportunity to consider the claim further before this service potentially looks at this. It would 
need to be brought to this service as a new complaint.
As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint. I also intend to require Amtrust to 
consider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy and to remove fraud markers from 
all internal and external databases. Amtrust should pay £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by what happened in this case. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 17 February 2021.
Mr R didnt provide any comments.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision to uphold this complaint 
and for the reasons previously given.
  
Putting things right
As a result, Amtrust should consider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy, 
remove fraud markers from all internal and external databases and pay Mr R £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Consider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy
Remove fraud markers from all internal and external databases
Pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman