DRN-1937203
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C have complained about a mortgage application they made to Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Money) that was declined.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Bank of Ireland dealt with this application in line with its normal process. Its 
made a commercial decision to only underwrite applications once all the information is in; 
including the valuation report and any subsequent reports the surveyor asks for. Were not 
the regulator and weve no power to tell a business to change how it chooses to work.
Ive reviewed Bank of Irelands lending policy and Im satisfied it didnt act unfairly in 
declining this application. Whilst that may have been unwelcome to Mrs and Mr C, and they 
say they werent happy with having their integrity questioned, it would be highly inappropriate 
for me to interfere with that lending decision. 
However, I do think Bank of Irelands explanation for the decline could have been clearer as 
it was fairly clumsy which led to Mrs and Mr C feeling they were being accused of lying. 
Bank of Ireland has since provided a clearer explanation to this service and I think had it 
provided that same explanation to Mrs and Mr C at the outset then this complaint may not 
have gone as far as it has. For that Im satisfied the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is fair and reasonable.
For completeness that explanation is that Bank of Ireland defines a Pied-et-Terre as a 
property which is intended to be used as a secondary accommodation, and its requirements 
for that is a property that will be lived in by the applicants as regularly as their first residential 
property, which wasnt the case here. Instead Mrs and Mr C intended to use the property as 
a holiday home for them to visit and that doesnt fit the banks lending criteria. 
The easiest way I can think of to illustrate what I understand would meet the criteria is where 
the first residential property is a rural home where both parties live every weekend, and they 
want to buy a city crash pad near work for one or both parties to live in during the week.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay £100 compensation 
to Mrs and Mr C. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman