DRN-1590575
 
The complaint
Mr Zs complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim for theft of his car 
and cancelled his motor insurance policy because they didnt believe his account of events.
What happened
Mr Z bought his car in early 2017.  He bought it new from a dealer. He part exchanged a 
previous car and paid the balance in cash. He changed the registration of the car for a 
personal one. And he bought return to invoice GAP insurance.
In September 2019 Mr Z left his house on a Sunday morning and found his car was missing. 
He said hed not used it since the previous Friday night. And that the car had been parked in 
his street, but not directly in front of his house. He still had both keys.
Mr Z checked a mobile application he had that was connected to his car. And this said the 
car had been driven in the early hours of the Saturday morning. Mr Z said this wasnt him. 
So he reported that the car had been stolen to the police and to UKI. 
UKI started an investigation into the circumstances of the theft. That took a couple of 
months. UKI then declined Mr Zs claim and cancelled his policy. This was because they 
werent satisfied the theft had happened as Mr Z had described, if at all. UKI thought Mr Z 
had been trying to gain financially from his policy  when he wasnt entitled to. It listed some 
of the reasons it thought this was the case. It said Mr Z:
hadnt given them accurate information about how hed paid for the car, in an attempt 
to mislead them; 
had started trying to get his private plate removed two days after the theft, because 
he knew the car wasnt going to be found; 
wasnt clear about where he kept the car keys; 
hadnt been truthful about who drove the car; 
hadnt reported that the car had been damaged previously in an accident. UKI said it 
could tell that warning lights had been flashing up on the car. And these looked to 
have been the type of thing that would have happened if the car had been in an 
impact; 
hadnt noticed the car was missing for over 24 hours, even though it was parked in 
his road; and 
thered been several motor trade searches on the car, as if Mr Z was looking to sell 
the car before the theft.
Mr Z complained to our service about UKIs decision. He said hed co-operated with UKIs 
investigation and had given them the information theyd asked for. And that hed been 
truthful in what hed told them, but UKI hadnt accepted what hed said.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but she didnt think UKI should have done 
anything differently. She said that UKI had done a thorough investigation and had found 
some conflicting information. So it wasnt unreasonable theyd rejected Mr Zs claim.
Mr Z didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint.  Ill explain why.
UKI can decline a claim if they think a condition of the policy have been breached. In this 
case, UKI feel that, based on the evidence they have, its likely Mr Z did breach the fraud 
condition of his policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to this, 
and they say:
9 Fraud
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts
to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
 your policy may be cancelled;
 we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims;
 we may keep any premium you have paid.
What happens if we discover fraud
We have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share 
information about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud.
We may also involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal
proceedings. If a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim has been made under any
other policy you hold with us, we may cancel this policy.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, UKI are 
entitled to decline any claim made and cancel the insurance policy. It isnt for us to decide 
whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Rather, I need to decide if UKI acted 
reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has. 
So, Ive looked at what UKI have taken into account, and whether I think this was fair. 
Ive seen UKIs response to Mr Zs complaint. It gives a lot of reasons why UKI declined the 
claim. And I think it was fair for UKI to explore these, and to decline the claim when they felt 
the answers Mr Z provided werent satisfactory.  
UKI received calls about Mr Z before and after he reported his car was stolen. The caller told 
UKI that Mr Z was likely to make a fraudulent claim for loss in relation to his car, before the 
GAP insurance he had in place ended. 
Ive thought carefully about these calls. They were anonymous. And they didnt just make an 
allegation about Mr Z. They gave specific details about his circumstances - for example, that 
he had GAP insurance in place and when that would expire. I can see why UKI would be 
concerned about this and would take what was said seriously. And I can see why they would 
have taken the calls into account when they decided to decline Mr Zs claim.And UKIs decision to decline Mr Zs claim and cancel his policy was based on a number of 
reasons - which they identified after a detailed and thorough investigation of all the 
circumstances surrounding the reported theft. UKI gave Mr Z the opportunity to respond to 
what their investigators found  for example, the multiple fault codes found when the cars 
keys were examined. Mr Z didnt offer any alternative explanation for UKI to consider  so I 
dont think it was unreasonable for them to draw the conclusion they did.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable  putting all their concerns together  for UKI to decide 
the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. And, having reached that conclusion, 
they were entitled to decline his claim and cancel his policy.
 
I understand Mr Zs upset about the decision UKI made.  But Im satisfied the actions UKI 
took when looking into the claim were fair. And I dont think they should have done anything 
differently  or that they should have reached a different conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint about UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman