DRN-3994584
The complaint
Ms D complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, unfairly terminated her 
income protection claim, when she was still too unwell to work.
Ms Ds complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party, but for ease I will refer to all 
representations as having been made by Ms D.
What happened
Ms D is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme, underwritten by 
L&G. Ms D suffers with Myalgic Encephalomyelitis / Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS); 
L&G had previously accepted a claim and had been paying income protection benefits for 
several years.
The relevant policy terms in this case are as follows. 
Definition of Disabled member
means an insured member who at any time,
(i) in our opinion, meets the incapacity definition, and
(ii) is not engaged in any other occupation []
Definition of incapacity
Own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately 
before the start of the deferred period.
Termination of benefit  
We will immediately end payment of benefit if:
if the insured member ceases to be a disabled member, []
L&G arranged for Ms D to be reviewed by one of its rehabilitation consultants in February 
2020. It was noted Ms D had not seen her GP in the past six months, and was being signed 
off work for three months at a time without a consultation. The reported stated Ms D was not 
taking any prescribed medication or receiving any treatment. Ms D had said her fatigue had 
improved, but she sometimes needed rest in afternoons. Also that her concentration and 
joint and muscle pain were better. She also said she was able to do households chores, 
shopping, driving and socialising. The consultant also noted in the report that the meeting 
with Ms D was face to face, for over an hour and noted no issues with her concentration or 
pain / discomfort. They concluded Ms D may be fit to return to work in some capacity, with 
reasonable adjustments. And said Ms D was keen to return to work and would discuss this 
with her manager.
Following a further review by L&Gs rehabilitation consultant in July 2020, it was 
recommended Ms D begin a phased return to work over a period of 8 weeks, gradually 
increasing to her full-time hours. Ms D began the phased return to work in October 2020, 
once her employer had facilitated her working from home. However she followed a different 
return plan with a slower build up over a longer period, as recommended by an occupational 
health consultant appointed by her employer. 
L&G said it would pay partial benefits over the phased returned period. And terminated Ms 
Ds claim and stopped paying the benefits at the end of November 2020, when Ms Ds 
original phased return to work plan, recommended by L&Gs rehabilitation consultant, was 
expected to end. 
Ms D complained to L&G about the termination of her claim. She said she hadnt been able 
to return to work within the timescales set out by L&G and was still unable to work her full 
hours. 
L&G said it had reviewed its decision, and had referred the case to one of its Medical 
Officers (MO). The MO said they thought the evidence showed Ms D was fit to begin a return 
to work from February 2020, and there was no medical reason that this had been delayed 
until October 2020. They said a meaningful phased return in the circumstances would be 
over 8  12 weeks, and they thought there was no medical rationale for the extended 18 - 26 
week plan implemented by Ms Ds employer. 
L&G said it thought had been right to terminate the claim when it did, and it maintained its 
position. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Ms D brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. And said they didnt think L&G had unfairly terminated 
the claim.
L&G made no comment on the investigators view. However Ms D disagreed. In summary 
she questioned whether the rehabilitation consultant and L&Gs MO were suitably qualified / 
experienced in the area of ME/CFS. And said she hadnt been able to reach her full-time 
hours, so could not carry out the material and substantial duties of her occupation. Ms D also 
provided several articles and resources relating to treatment and management of ME/CFS.
Ms D asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules say L&G has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive carefully considered if L&G has treated Ms D 
fairly.  
Firstly I should set out, if I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this 
doesnt mean I havent considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, 
but instead Im concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended 
by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.To fairly terminate Ms Ds claim, it was for L&G to show that she no longer met the policy 
definition of incapacity. And Im satisfied by the medical evidence Ive seen, including the 
commentary on improvements in Ms Ds symptoms and abilities within the rehabilitation 
consultant reports and the lack of active medical intervention into Ms Ds condition, that it 
wasnt unfair for L&G to determine that she no longer met the incapacity definition. 
Ms D has raised several points about ME/CFS and supplied various resources about the 
condition. However I think its important to note the distinction between the insurers role in 
assessing Ms Ds ongoing incapacity and her fitness for a return to work, with medical 
intervention into her condition. Had Ms D been under the care of a specialist, I would have 
expected L&G to have requested a report from them, or their input into the return to work 
plan. But the evidence shows there was no specialist monitoring Ms Ds condition and no 
active treatment plan in place. And I dont think L&G needed to arrange for any further 
assessment, as Ms D had confirmed improvements in her symptoms and abilities during the 
rehabilitation consultation meetings.
Ms D has questioned whether or not the rehabilitation consultant and MO are specialists in 
ME/CFS. However both are qualified in occupational health, and Im not persuaded a 
specific specialism in ME/CFS is necessary for the purpose of reviewing medical evidence 
for the purpose of the claim. I also dont think L&Gs MO needed to meet with Ms D in 
person. The purpose of the referral to the MO is to review the available medical evidence 
and actions taken, and to give an opinion. 
Ive thought about the differing opinions on the format of the phased return to work. The 
rehabilitation consultant recommended an 8  9 week return to work plan, combined with 
reasonable adjustments. However Ms Ds employer had an internal process involving a 
referral to an occupational health consultant, who recommended a phased approach over a 
much longer period of 18  26 weeks. 
After Ms D complained, L&G referred the case to their medical officer, who said he thought a 
phased return over a minimum of eight weeks was appropriate in the circumstances. And 
that there was no medical justification for the longer plan recommended in the occupational 
health report.
If Ms D had said she had been unable to commence any form of return to work at all, I would 
have expected more investigation by the insurer, and an independent medical examination 
or functional capacity assessment may have been appropriate. However, this wasnt the 
case here, as reflected in Ms Ds comments during the rehabilitation review meetings. 
Although the assessment arranged by Ms Ds employer resulted in a recommendation of a 
further extended return to work plan, I dont think it unreasonable that L&G placed more 
weight on the opinion of the rehabilitation consultant and its medical officer. In particular I 
say this considering its background knowledge of the claim and the earlier reports reflecting 
improvements in Ms Ds condition and symptoms from February 2020 onwards, and the lack 
of any specialist medical evidence to the contrary. L&Gs MO has said Ms D was able to 
commence a return to work much sooner than October 2020. And I think this is fair, as the 
rehabilitation consultant report in February 2020 indicates various improvements Ms D had 
advised of in her symptoms and her functional capacity for everyday tasks. Ive noted Ms D 
was willing to begin the return sooner, and there were delays in her employer setting up the 
facilities for her to work from home, but I dont think that makes a difference to L&Gs 
assessment of the evidence. 
The resources Ms D has provided about ME/CFS havent persuaded me that the 8 week 
return to work plan was unsuitable, as these talk about the condition in general and are not 
specific to Ms Ds own symptoms and functionality around the start of the phased return or 
when the claim was terminated. In December 2020, L&G arranged a further review meeting with the rehabilitation consultant. 
Ms D reported she had only built up to working 8 hours per week spread over three days, 
and was experiencing pain and tiredness. I think L&G could have asked for more information 
about this at the time in order to investigate further. However, I havent seen that there is any 
further medical evidence from that time to explain why Ms D was unable to meet L&Gs 
original return to work plan. And I note Ms D didnt attempt the original plan, in favour of the 
plan recommended by the employers occupational health consultant. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms D and her employer confirmed the return to work was unsuccessful, 
Im not satisfied that this is sufficient evidence. I think its reasonable that L&G would have 
needed medical evidence of the barriers to the return, in order to reconsider the continuation 
of the claim. It told Ms Ds employer as the policyholder, that medical evidence would be 
required if she could not meet the plan. And Im not persuaded the evidence provided is 
objective medical evidence, which demonstrates and details that the failure of the return to 
work was directly due to Ms Ds medical condition and symptoms of ME/CFS.
Based on the overall evidence Ive seen; I dont think L&Gs assessment that Ms Ds 
condition no longer met the definition of incapacity was unfair or unreasonable and I think it 
was entitled to stop paying her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman