DRN-3012775
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Azzurro Associates Limited purchased a debt which had already 
been settled under an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
This complaint is about a secured loan, which was settled in an IVA in 2015, but then sold to 
Azzurro in 2020.
Azzurro wrote to Mr B to let him know theyd bought the account. Mr B told them about the 
IVA, and Azzurro looked into the matter. Azzurro explained theyd not been told about the 
IVA by the original creditor and had bought the debt in good faith. They apologised, passed 
the account back to the original creditor, and assured Mr B they wouldnt contact him about it 
anymore.
Meanwhile, the original creditor accepted this was their error and paid compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt think Azzurro needed to do 
anything further here. They found that this was really the original creditors fault for selling 
the account to Azzurro, and thought Azzurro had acted reasonably in looking into the matter, 
apologising, and returning the account within a reasonable time.
Mr B didnt agree. He felt that Azzurro should have done further checks first, and that they 
were at fault in addition to the original creditor. He asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand why Mr B complained. It would have been stressful enough 
sorting out this account through an IVA in the first place, and I can appreciate the shock he 
must have felt when he then heard from Azzurro.
Here, the original creditor has accepted that this was their responsibility, and explained they 
made the error. Ive looked at the information that was given to Azzurro, and I cant see that 
it mentioned the IVA. So I dont think this situation came about by an error on Azzurros part.
I can understand why Mr B feels that Azzurro bears some further responsibility for what 
happened here. But Azzurro are not required to check every single account they buy in the 
depth that Mr B has suggested. If Azzurro then get told theres an issue with an account, 
then of course I would expect them to look into this and deal with the matter appropriately. 
But here, I can see that Azzurro did look into the matter, apologised, returned the account to 
the seller, and assured Mr B they wouldnt contact him about it anymore. And they did this 
within the time they were supposed to. So broadly speaking, theyve done what I would have 
expected them to do. And were not here to punish or fine businesses.
So while I do understand the basis of Mr Bs complaint, I dont require Azzurro to do anything 
further in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman