DRN-2875200
The complaint
Mr C and Mr M complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr C and Mr M have the benefit of travel insurance as part of a building society account. The 
cover is for trips up to 31 days and for certain longer trips, a trip extension upgrade may be 
purchased.
In May 2019, Mr C and Mr M booked fights to the place of residence of their surrogate 
for the birth of their twins. Their initial plan was to leave the UK on 25 September 2019 
and return with their twins on 1 November 2019 (the flight would depart on 31 October 
2019). I understand that the 40-week due date was 4 November 2019, but Mr C and   
Mr M were told to expect the birth at approximately the end of September 2019.
Mr C and Mr M say that they decided to change their UK departure date and spend time 
exploring their destination before the birth of their twins. On 12 August 2019, Mr C phoned 
UKI in order to arrange a trip extension. In that call, Mr C gave intended outward and 
return travel dates of 17 August 2019 and 11 November 2019 respectively. Mr C paid an 
additional premium of £108.
Mr C and Mr M left the UK on 21 August 2019. Their twins were born on
23 August 2019, at 29 weeks gestation. One of the twins was still in hospital on 31 
October 2019, so Mr C and Mr M couldnt return home as planned. The airline
refunded the return flight costs, less a cancellation fee. Mr C and Mr M returned home with 
their twins on 11 November 2019.
Mr C and Mr M claimed against the policy for various items amounting to over £4,000, 
including extra accommodation costs, flight cancellation fee for their planned flight home, the 
cost of an internal flight for a trip theyd planned, daily hospital benefit for the twins,
travel expenses for hospital visits and pharmacy costs.
 
UKI declined the claim on the basis that the twins were not UK residents. It considered 
the matter further and changed its reason for declining the claim. UKI said that this was 
an Anticipated event and therefore excluded under the policy.
Mr C and Mr M say that they did not know the twins would arrive early  theres no history 
of early birth in their families and no reason to suspect it would happen, so this wasnt an 
anticipated event. They say that UKI came to the wrong decision in declining their claim. 
Mr C and Mr M also say that UKI has discriminated against them based on gender, as it 
made several discriminatory statements in phone calls.
In response to Mr C and Mr Ms complaint, UKI paid them compensation amounting to
£600 for the delay in confirming the correct reasons for the decline of the claim and the 
confusion and upset caused. Mr C and Mr M remained unhappy and pursued their 
complaint. They want UKI to settle their claim, pay compensation and provide a written 
apology for the initial denial of their claim, discriminating against them as a family and for 
delay in dealing with their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mr C and Mr M unfairly in declining the claim on the basis that what happened was 
an anticipated event and therefore excluded under the policy. The investigator thought 
that the compensation of £600 UKI had already paid in relation to the time taken to assess 
the claim and its handling of one of Mr Cs calls was fair.
Mr C and Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. Mr C responded to say that prematurity 
isnt to be expected and that what happened to them was incredibly unusual and certainly 
not something they anticipated. He said that UKI have no evidence that they knew their 
twins would be born early.
My provisional decision
On 10 May 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr C and Mr Ms complaint but for different reasons than had 
been mentioned before. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
Who is covered
This policy provides cover for:
The account holder.
The account holders partner.
Any dependent child of the account holder.
You can extend the cover to include any guests travelling with you on a trip by buying a 
Guest Upgrade.
Residency
To be covered under this policy, you must be registered with a UK doctor and be a resident 
of the UK. This means you must spend at least 6 months of any 12 month period in the UK.
We will only cover trips that start and end in the UK.
Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure
This section provides cover if:
[]
You are unable to return to the UK on your planned return date.
[]
Delayed Return
We will pay up to £500 for any extra car parking, kennel, cattery, or professional pet sitter 
costs if for reasons outside your control, you cant return to the UK on your planned 
return date.
[]You are not covered for 
We wont pay for:
[]
8. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations): 
[]
Anticipated events
[]
The policy defines an Anticipated event as:
Any event that you knew would happen or could reasonably have expected to happen at 
the time you became an insured person, the date when you booked your trip or when 
buying an upgrade, whichever is later.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont intend to uphold Mr C and Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, as UKI does here, 
it must show that it applies in the particular circumstances that led to the claim. 
Ive considered this matter very carefully and, on balance, I dont think that UKI 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the Anticipated events 
exclusion.
Mr C says that he and Mr M dont have any medical records or summary medical 
information relating to the pregnancy for the months leading up to the early delivery 
of their twins. Such records or information would likely show what was known and 
when about the risk of early delivery. Mr C and Mr M have been asked to provide 
that information but say that its not available as they dont have access to the 
surrogates medical records. I appreciate the difficulties that Mr C and Mr M say 
that they have in getting such information, but I think its likely they would be able 
to access some information about the circumstances of the birth, particularly as it 
relates to their childrens own personal medical history. So, Im not persuaded by 
their explanation about the absence of medical information based on the evidence 
Ive seen.
In the absence of medical information, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in concluding that when Mr C purchased the trip 
extension on 12 August 2019, he knew or could reasonably expect that 
events may lead to a claim against the policy. Thats because pregnancy, 
delivery and post-natal care for new-borns are inherently uncertain 
events. The uncertainty is, of course, greater in a multiple pregnancy.
In addition, the transcript of Mr Cs call with UKI on 26 November 2019, records 
that Mr C said that the surrogate was admitted to hospital the week before the 
twins were born. That would be week commencing 12 August 2019, the same date 
that Mr C purchased the trip extension. On balance, it seems more likely than not 
that Mr C received some information about the pregnancy and changed the trip 
dates. So, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that 
when Mr C bought the upgrade, he knew about or could reasonably expect events 
which may lead to a claim against the policy.In response to the investigators view, Mr C said that if they had known on             
12 August 2019 that the birth was imminent, they wouldnt have delayed their 
departure until 21 August 2019. There may be a number of reasons why Mr C and 
Mr M didnt depart earlier, including their perception of the likelihood of an early 
delivery and their availability. I dont think that Mr C and Mr M knew when their 
children would be born  these matters are inherently uncertain. But I think its fair 
to say that when Mr C purchased the trip extension he could reasonably expect 
some disruption to their trip because of the pregnancy.
When Mr C purchased the trip extension, he said that their travel dates were        
17 August 2019 to 11 November 2019. Mr C says that those were not their actual 
travel dates and he decided to add a buffer either side of their trip dates to ensure 
cover. I can appreciate why Mr C did that when the outcome of events is uncertain. 
At the time Mr C bought the trip extension, I dont think that Mr C or Mr M could 
know exactly when they would be ready to fly home, but I think its safe to say that 
Mr C and Mr M knew or could reasonably expect some disruption to their trip.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that and decided that UKI couldnt 
rely on the Anticipated events exclusion, I dont think that UKI is obliged to settle 
Mr C and Mr Ms claim. The policy doesnt cover everything that might happen on a 
trip or every loss incurred. The policy provides that UKI will pay up to £500 for extra 
car parking or certain pet costs if, for reasons outside their control, Mr C and Mr M 
cant return to the UK on their planned return date. The policy doesnt cover the 
costs claimed by Mr C and Mr M.
Mr C and Mr M have claimed hospital benefit and pharmacy costs for the twins. 
The twins were not insured under this policy. Thats because the policy only covers 
individuals who are registered with a UK doctor and residents of the UK. And it only 
covers trips that start and end in the UK. At the time of the events that led to the 
claim, the twins were unlikely to be registered with a UK doctor and were not yet 
residents of the UK. And their trip didnt start and end in the UK. I appreciate that 
the discussions on this point caused Mr C and Mr M distress  and I can 
understand why - but I dont think the twins were covered under the policy due to 
the circumstances in this case.
Mr C and Mr M have complained about how their claim was handled. The 
transcripts of the relevant calls suggest that UKI was trying to be helpful and to 
clarify the claim. I can understand why Mr C and Mr M were concerned that their 
claim was declined and that UKI changed its reason for declining the claim. But, 
ultimately, I think that it applied the policy terms fairly.
Mr C and Mr M say the comments made by UKIs representative during the call on      
29 November 2019 were discriminatory. They say Mr C was told that had he been a 
female policyholder, the claim would have been covered. So, they feel 
discriminated against on the grounds of their sex. When considering whether UKI 
has acted fairly and reasonably, Im required to consider a number of things 
including relevant law and regulations. And as its relevant to the concerns Mr C 
and Mr M have raised, Ive taken into account the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA). But 
its not for our Service to make any finding about whether UKI has breached the 
EqA  thats the role of the courts. I dont think it was helpful to discuss what might 
happen in different circumstances, as UKI had to deal with the claim that was 
made, not a claim that may be made by others in different circumstances. But Ive 
seen nothing to say that a woman in comparable circumstances to Mr C and Mr M 
wouldve had her claim accepted by UKI.In the particular circumstances of this case, I think that the compensation 
amounting to £600 UKI has already paid in relation to Mr C and Mr Ms distress and 
inconvenience is fair. UKI acknowledges that it took too long to decline the claim 
and caused upset in trying to explain its position in the call of 29 November 2019.
Mr C and Mr M asked that UKI apologise to them for certain matters. I dont think 
thats necessary in the circumstances of this case as UKI has apologised for the 
time it took to decline the claim and for the upset it caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C said that he had no further comments. UKI didnt provide a substantive response.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or comment, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think that UKI was at fault in declining Mr C and Mr Ms claim. And I think that the 
compensation UKI has already paid in relation to Mr C and Mr Ms distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr C and Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman