DRN-3654231
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) asked
her to pay their success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she
hadnt authorised them to make. And for which shed already paid another claims
management company (CMC) their success fee.
What happened
Mrs S said shed used the services of a CMC, and after her claim was successful she paid
them their success fee. But in early 2021 she said FTR, another CMC asked her to pay their
fee for the same successful claim. Mrs S said she spoke to FTR who said shed authorised
them to act for her, and as her claim with L was successful their fee was justified. She
complained to FTR.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in June 2019 and theyd submitted this
to Mrs S lenders to pursue mis-sold PPI claims for her based on the information shed
provided to them in her application. In August 2019, FTR said theyd updated Mrs S when
PPI had been found and asked her to complete a PPI questionnaire. They said she hadnt
returned the PPI questionnaire, but this wasnt a necessity for her claim to progress. They
said L had told them Mrs S had PPI and this showed L had accepted the claim they sent.
And as her claim with L was successful they asked her to pay their success fee.
Mrs S wasnt happy with FTRs response, she said shed never signed anything for FTR to
act for her as shed authorised another CMC whod shed paid for her successful claim. She
said FTR had bombarded her with messages and threats of legal action which had caused
her considerable distress.
Our investigator said L had told FTR theyd received several claims from CMCs saying
they were acting for Mrs S. And that FTRs records showed theyd cancelled all her claims
with them in November 2019. She said FTR should waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree. They said L had acknowledged their submission of Mrs Ss LoA and that
theyd investigate her mis-sold PPI claim. They said this showed their submitted claim was
received first by L and so their success fee was justified. They asked for an ombudsman to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S disputes that she signed FTRs LoA in June 2019 as they werent the CMC she said
shed authorised to make her mis-sold PPI claims. FTR feel strongly that theyd been
authorised as Mrs S had agreed to their terms and conditions. And that it was their
submission of the LoA that meant Mrs S mis-sold PPI claim was successful.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information
were given. Mrs S has said the signature on FTRs LoA isnt hers. But its not our role to
validate a signature, we arent handwriting experts and its not for us to validate a signature.
In making my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than not Mrs S had
or hadnt authorised FTR to act on her behalf. If I consider she has, whether FTR knew she
no longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether FTR has acted fairly and
reasonably in their actions with her.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many CMCs amended their
terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. And reflected that
lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. Any further information
such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen the claim that the
PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a
claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the 
missold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. But for
others they didnt accept the digital signature on the LoA in these cases the lender asked for
a wet signature and for the PPI questionnaire to be completed. Any claim received after the
29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were
exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So Ive looked at what has happened. FTR has shown an online enquiry was made about 
missold PPI for Mrs S on 23 June 2019 and a LoA was submitted with Mrs S details. The
personal details supplied match those Mrs S has given us.
FTR has said Mrs S would have needed to agree to their terms and conditions for the LoA to
be generated. And that the LoA could only be submitted when a signature was added. FTRs
terms and conditions said:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
In July 2019 FTRs records show that theyd confirmation that Mrs S had PPI. And that they
sent her notification of this in August 2019. I can see the notification gave a FTR customer to 
follow four steps to progress her claim, one of which was to complete the PPI
questionnaire. And that on receipt of the signed PPI questionnaire a letter of complaint would
be sent to her lender. FTR said Mrs S didnt complete the PPI questionnaire, and I havent
seen a letter of complaint submitted by FTR to L.
PPI being found didnt automatically mean Mrs S claim was successful as it needed to be
considered by L whether the PPI had been mis-sold to her. At the end of October 2019, L
told FTR that another CMC was also acting for Mrs S. L said theyd check with Mrs S and
wouldnt discuss the claim further with FTR until theyd her instructions. So, I dont consider
FTR would have had the authority to continue acting for Mrs S at this time without
confirmation from her as to which CMC she wanted to progress her mis-sold PPI claim.
I havent seen any further communication between L and FTR from then. But L did tell
Mrs S, in November 2019 that her claim was successful and asked Mrs S to confirm which
CMC she authorised to act for her. I can see from FTRs notes that in the same month they
cancelled all of Mrs S claims with them:Cancel ALL cases after free check.
I can see it wasnt until February 2021 that FTR updated Mrs S about what L had told them
and they asked her to withdraw her authority from the other CMC and to let L know. FTR
told Mrs S theyd continue to progress her claim. But Mrs S had already several months
before had her compensation as outlined above and had paid the other CMC, in July 2020
their success fee.
I havent seen any evidence from August 2019 until February 2021 that FTR asked Mrs S for
her authority for them to act on her behalf or updated her about what they were doing. FTRs
records dont show any contact with or from Mrs S or L after August 2019 and before her
claim was successful. And I cant see they asked Mrs S if shed removed her authority for
the other CMC to act for her or ask her to complete a LoA for them to act for her. It wasnt
until February 2021, some 15 months after L had told Mrs S her claim was successful that
they again got in touch with Mrs S.
So, taking all of the above into account I think L had accepted Mrs S had authorised
another CMC to act on her behalf, and her claim was successful with them. And this is
supported by Mrs S paying the other CMC their success fee. As I dont think FTR were
authorised to act for Mrs S I dont think FTR can charge their fee.
We will award compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused where we think
something has gone wrong. But such compensation is just that; its not awarded to punish
the business, rather it is given to try to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I think this has been a very distressing time for Mrs S. She told FTR that shed already paid
a fee for her claim. She also told them shed suffered several recent bereavements and
during one call Mrs S told FTR that shed recently been burgled.
Ive seen the letters sent by FTR throughout 2021 that tell Mrs S that they consider their fee
is due to them and that unless she pays it they will start legal action. But as detailed above,
FTRs records show that another CMC was involved, Mrs S hadnt returned the requested
forms they said were needed for her claim to progress. And because she hadnt returned a
signed PPI questionnaire, I havent seen any evidence of a letter of complaint being
submitted to L. The lender had also stopped dealing with FTR as I think they didnt
consider theyd Mrs S authority. As Mrs S has experienced distress and inconvenience 
because of the actions taken by FTR that I dont think were fair or reasonable I intend to ask
them to also pay her £250 for the distress this has caused to her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S hasnt asked for any further evidence or comments to be considered.
FTR didnt agree with the distress and inconvenience award and asked for several points to 
be considered. Ive summarised my understanding of these below.
The lender had told FTR that theyd found Mrs S had PPI with them. FTR said this 
showed that it was FTR whod first submitted Mrs S claim to the lender. And as the 
claim was successful their fee is justified;
Mrs S hadnt made FTR aware that shed withdrawn her authority or asked to cancel 
the agreement shed with them;
As L had auto converted Mrs S claim there wasnt a need to send a letter of 
complaint;Mrs S had told them shed been burgled during a call and theyd arranged to call her 
back but she didnt respond to the arranged call. She also didnt respond to the 
subsequent calls that were made despite being made aware of the importance of the 
call, and
Mrs S hadnt made them aware of any recent bereavements at the time of the 
complaint. 
Having considered the above Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered the letter sent by FTR dated 21 August 2019. It clearly says that for Mrs S 
claim to progress she needed to complete all four steps, and this included the completion 
and return of the PPI questionnaire. And that on receipt of the completed  PPI questionnaire 
FTR would send a letter of complaint to Mrs S lender. While I accept the lender didnt 
require the PPI questionnaire to investigate Mrs S claim, hence FTR didnt send the letter of 
complaint, this wouldnt have been known by Mrs S. And by not returning the said 
documents she would I think have understood from FTRs letter that this would mean her 
claim wouldnt be progressed by them.
In October 2019 L told FTR that Mrs S had more than one CMC working for her. And the 
following month as I outlined in my provisional decision, FTRs notes show that all Mrs S 
claims with several named lenders including L were cancelled after the free PPI check. So, 
I consider FTR had accepted that Mrs S claim wouldnt be taken forward by them. 
CMCOB  6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at 
least once every six months
I dont think FTR were progressing Mrs S claim as she hadnt returned the PPI 
questionnaire to them. Which is why I think FTR didnt provide an update after October 2019. 
And it was only in February 2021 after they became aware Mrs S claim had been successful 
that they got back in touch with her. Mrs S was told by L her claim was successful in 
November 2019 and she paid another CMC for the successful claim.  I think this shows she 
didnt consider FTR had been instructed to act for her. And from FTRs records I think theyd 
looked to cancel all her claims as well. So, I dont think FTR can justify their fee.
I can see Mrs S has been going through some difficult times. While FTR say they didnt 
know about all her circumstances at the time. I think being told that legal proceedings were 
being taken against you for a claim you hadnt heard anything about for over 12 months is 
distressing. Especially as Mrs S had already paid a success fee for this claim to another 
CMC.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim to:
waive their fee for Mrs S PPI claim with L; and
pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman