DRN-3980316
The complaint
Mr E complains Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) reviewed and closed his accounts, including 
an investment holding one, with immediate effect and without explanation. 
Mr E says Citibank caused significant delay in returning his funds and with transferring his 
investment holding. This led to substantive financial losses, distress and inconvenience and 
embarrassment. To put things right, Mr E wants Citibank to compensate him for this.   
What happened
In June 2021, Citibank placed Mr Es accounts under review and blocked his accounts. It 
asked him for a letter from his attorney about the lawfulness of his business activity. Mr E 
says he gave this to Citibank around a week later. 
On 9 July 2021, Citibank informed Mr E it had decided to close his account with immediate 
effect. It offered to transfer out his funds to his nominated account, including to transfer his 
investment holdings to another service provider. 
Later in July 2021, Mr Es funds from his three cash accounts were transferred to his 
nominated account(s). Mr Es investment holdings were not transferred to another provider 
until December 2021. 
Unhappy with Citibanks actions, Mr E complained. Citibank did not uphold Mr Es complaint, 
and in short said it acted in line with the terms of the account when deciding to close the 
accounts immediately after conducting a KYC (Know Your Customer) review. Citibank also 
said it had not caused unnecessary delays in its review. 
Mr E then referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into his 
complaint. In summary they found: 
- Citibank acted in line with its obligations and terms of account when reviewing Mr Es 
accounts and it doesnt need to explain its actions
- The review was carried out promptly and without undue delay 
- Citibank are under no obligation to give reasons for why it decided to close Mr Es 
accounts, and it was entitled to close the accounts which was in line with their terms 
and conditions   
- Citibank do not need to compensate Mr E for any loss as it had done nothing wrong 
in reviewing and blocking the accounts 
- Without further evidence, they couldnt make a finding on whether Citibank had 
caused a six-month delay to his investment holdings being transferred or whether it 
was the receiving organisations fault  
Mr E accepted Citibank doesnt need to give a reason for its actions. But he didnt agree with 
several of our Investigators findings. Some of the key points he made were: 
- 39 days was an unreasonable time for Citibank to have blocked access to his funds 
and carry out its review 
- No reference was made to Citibanks terms and conditions, nor how it was 
determined it acted in a timely manner 
- At the end of the review no fault was found on Mr Es part 
- He did not accept the finding on the six-month delay to his investment holdings being 
transferred. He was constantly chasing Citibank who were unresponsive and gave 
false information  whereas the organisation he was looking to transfer the holdings 
to were responsive 
Our Investigator then asked for more information relating to the delay in transferring the 
investment holdings from Mr E, Citibank, and the third-party service provider where the 
funds were being attempted for transfer. 
They then sent Mr E their further findings on his complaint, whilst he was waiting for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. In summary, our Investigator explained that: 
- Citibank said the delays to transferring Mr Es investment holdings were because of 
the new provider not responding. Citibank have provided evidence of it sending 
multiple chasers and getting no response
- Based on this evidence, Citibank were actively trying to make the transfer happen 
and it appears the recipient business was not responding 
- The recipient firm were unable to find any historic notes of the investment transfer  
Our Investigator gave Mr E a deadline to make any further representations which has now 
passed. Because of that, Mr Es complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Es complaint. I note he feels strongly about 
his complaint, so Ill explain why. 
Account review and blocks 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Citibanks reasons for reviewing and blocking Mr Es account, Im satisfied 
it acted fairly and in line with obligations imposed upon it. Mr E is aware Citibank were 
carrying out a KYC review on his accounts - this is part of a multitude of legal and regulatory 
obligations it must fulfil. 
Account closures 
Citibank is entitled to close an account just as Mr E could close an account with it. But before 
a it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts, which Citibank and Mr E had to comply with, say 
it could close the account by giving him at least two-months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Citibank, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the accounts in the way that it has done. Citibank had sent Mr E and email to explain its 
actions on 9 July 2021, which said written correspondence would also be sent imminently 
notifying him of the decision to close the accounts. 
At this point its important to note that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Citibank has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential.
Im also not aware of any obligation under which I or Citibank must give Mr E reason for why 
his accounts were closed. But having carefully considered the information Citibank have 
given me, Im satisfied that it acted in line with its obligations, and fairly applied its terms of 
account when closing Mr Es accounts  including his investment holdings.
Ive noted Mr E says this matter has caused him substantive financial loss. In the main he 
says he needed to make alternative arrangements for purchasing a house by having to sell 
investments, and his business suffered losses due to having reduced working capital. 
Mr E adds the matter caused severe strain in his relationship with his partner, and he felt 
humiliated as he needed to borrow money from friends and family. So Mr E feels Citibank 
ought to compensate him for this.   
I do appreciate this matter wouldve caused Mr E difficulty. But having looked at whats 
happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Citibank given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures, or follow 
obligations imposed upon it, when closing Mr Es accounts in the way it did. 
So Im not going to ask Citibank to compensate Mr E for any financial loss or trouble and 
upset this may have caused.
Delays 
Ive looked at the actions Citibank took when reviewing Mr Es accounts. In terms of his cash 
accounts, Im satisfied Citibank did not cause any avoidable delay by restricting the account 
for around 39 days before transferring the funds out to Mr Es nominated account(s). 
I note Mr E feels strongly that 39 days was an unreasonable time, and that an explanation 
wasnt given as to why 39 days was deemed timely. For the same reasons Ive said above 
about not having to give Mr E an explanation for the review or closure, I dont need to set out 
here what Citibank was doing in detail with its review.
But having looked at everything Citibank did as part of its review, Im satisfied it didnt cause 
undue delay with sending the money held in the three cash accounts to Mr E. So I dont think 
Citibank has done anything wrong here. 
Lastly, Ive looked at the evidence I have relating to the transfer of Mr Es investment 
holdings account with Citibank. Our Investigator has set out in detail the evidence they received from Mr E and Citibank regards why the transfer took around six months  so I 
dont need to reiterate it here. 
Its unfortunate of course the recipient bank, the funds were ultimately sent to in 
December 2021, dont have any records. 
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Es investment holdings, and I note there 
doesnt appear to be any obligation for it to transfer the holdings in the way it offered after 
deciding to close an account with immediate effect. So it appears Citibank couldve cashed 
the investment holdings, and sent the money to Mr E.    
But that aside, the information Ive seen from Citibanks internal systems shows that it made 
more than adequate information requests and chasers throughout July, August, September, 
October and November 2021 to Mr Es nominated bank, and it wasnt responding. 
So based on the information I have, Im persuaded its most likely Citibank didnt do anything 
wrong and did not cause delay to Mr Es investment holdings being transferred much sooner 
then they were. 
For the sake of completeness, I note Mr E says no fault was found on his part by Citibank. 
My decision has considered whether Citibank have acted properly when deciding to review, 
restrict and close Mr Es accounts  and whether it acted in a timely way. For the reasons 
above, I dont think Citibank has done anything wrong in respect to this.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman