DRN-3099385
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC did not reimburse money she was tricked into 
transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
Mrs C, a sole trader, was looking to purchase a car online for her business from a well-
known car retailer  something shed done before. However, on this occasion a fraudster 
appears to have gained access to her email account and was monitoring her 
correspondence with the retailer.  
Mrs C received an invoice from the genuine retailer instructing her to pay a deposit for the 
car she wished to purchase. A few days later she decided against purchasing that particular 
vehicle, instead opting for an alternative. 
This time the fraudster sent an invoice  designed to look like it had come from the genuine 
retailer but instructing her to pay a different account  one which was presumably controlled 
by the fraudster. 
Mrs C made the payment of £1,199 on 23 February 2021.  The scam came to light after 
Mrs C called to arrange collection, but the retailer said they hadnt received the deposit. She 
reported the matter to Metro but they were unable to recover any of her money from the 
bank that received it. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro says that one of those 
exceptions applies here  that Mrs C made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
belief. However, it was of the view that it hadnt provided Mrs C with an Effective Warning 
so, under the provisions of the CRM Code it agreed to refund 50% of her loss. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint. They thought that the email correspondence 
received from the fraudster looked very convincing and, as this was a payment Mrs C was 
expecting to make, shed have no reason to think that she was the victim of a scam.
Metro disagreed, it said that Mrs C did have concerns about the account details shed been 
provided with and expressed those concerns to her husband. At that point, it argued, she 
should have carried out further checks. It also pointed to the various differences between the 
genuine and fraudulent correspondence which, it said, ought to have given Mrs C concerns. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro should have refunded the money Mrs C 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
The money was taken from Mrs Cs business current account. It is not clear how the 
business would have used the money if Metro had refunded it when it should have 
done, so it should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date it declined Mrs Cs claim to the date of settlement. 
I have carefully considered Metros representations about whether Mrs C had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine, but they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mrs C failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Metro to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Its first important to say that, given the nature of the scam, there wouldnt be anything to 
concern Mrs C about the purpose of the payment or the request itself. It was a payment she 
was expecting to make for a legitimate purpose. 
So, Metro needs to show that the way the request was communicated, or the contents of 
that request were so concerning that Mrs C, taking into account her characteristics, didnt 
hold a reasonable basis for believing the recipient to be legitimate. Im not persuaded Metro 
has done this and Ill explain why.
Its relevant here that Mrs C says she wasnt aware of this particular type of scam and, 
considering Metro did not provide a warning, Ive seen nothing to suggest otherwise. It 
follows that she would be unlikely to be on the lookout for signs that the emails werent 
legitimate or be aware of the steps she could take to protect herself.
As Metro have pointed out  there were some differences between the genuine and 
fraudulent correspondence (most noticeably, perhaps, the lack of prominent branding on the 
fraudulent emails). The account details were also different to those which had been provided 
for the vehicle Mrs C was initially considering. The account was held at a bank Mrs C was 
unfamiliar with and was in the name of an individual, rather than the retailer. 
But the differences in the correspondence are reasonably slight and, I think, would have only 
been apparent if the genuine and fraudulent emails were compared, something Mrs C, who 
doesnt appear to have suspected fraud, would have had little reason to do at the time. The 
account details and sales order were also presented in an almost identical format by the 
retailer and the fraudster. 
Metro argue that Mrs C was in fact concerned about the change. They appear to be relying 
on a single line in their notes which reads: customer did show her husband and did say it 
doesnt look like a bank she had heard of. Mrs C told our investigator the conversation was 
about her unfamiliarity with the receiving bank, rather than a worry that she might be the 
victim of fraud. And, I think thats consistent with Metros notes. She says her husband 
reassured her, based on his past experience, that the use of that particular bank and the fact 
the payment was going to a different account wasnt unusual. 
I think Mrs C was reasonable to be reassured based on the conversation with her husband. 
There was nothing that he said that was obviously incorrect or concerning. And, I think her 
lack of familiarity with scams of this nature made her much more likely to attribute any inconsistencies in the correspondence to reasons other than fraud. For example, by putting 
the reason for the change of account details down to the fact she was purchasing a different 
car. 
So, I dont think the conversation is evidence that she foresaw the risk of fraud and 
proceeded regardless. While I accept there are steps she could have taken to verify the 
contents of the email, given the nature of her concerns, I dont think she was unreasonable 
not to have taken them.
All things considered, this was a very convincing scam and Im not persuaded Mrs C acted 
unreasonably in making the payment.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Metro Bank PLC and instruct it to:
- Refund the remaining 50% of the money lost - £599.50
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date it declined Mrs Cs 
claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman