DRN-3174487
The complaint
Mr L had motor insurance underwritten by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas). He complains 
about how Ageas dealt with things following an accident. References to Ageas includes 
other organisations. 
What happened
A cyclist ran into Mr Ls car. There was no claim from either party. Mr L reported the incident 
to Ageas and Ageas recorded it as no fault by Mr L. However when Mr L looked to renew 
his insurance he says some insurers took the incident into account and increased the price 
quoted to him. Mr L complained to Ageas. He says that Ageas took so long to deal with his 
complaint that he was forced to renew with Ageas as there wasnt time to shop around. Mr L 
also complained that Ageas held a record that he had 9 years no claim discount (NCD) when 
actually it was 20 years. 
In response, Ageas said it asks to be informed of all incidents, and this information is 
recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Ageas said the incident was 
recorded as a notification only claim, but that some insurers might still take it into account. 
Ageas also said it had contacted Mr Ls previous insurer and confirmed that he had 20 years 
NCD. Ageas said 9 years is the maximum record it holds but if Mr L left Ageas it would send 
him written confirmation of the full amount.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She said she didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr L says a 
lack of efficiency from Ageas has inconvenienced him badly and potentially been to his 
detriment in possibly being able to deal with a cheaper company. He wants compensation 
for the time hes had to put into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls insurance documents for his policy with Ageas stated
Important Notes
2. Insurers pass information to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange, run by Insurance 
Database Services Ltd (IDS Ltd)and other databasesUnder the conditions of your 
policy, you must tell us about any incident (such as accident or theft) which may or may not 
give rise to a claim. When you tell us about an incident, we will pass information relating to it 
to the Registers.
CUE is a database of motor, home, personal injury and travel insurance claims/incidents. 
Not all insurers are signed up to CUE, but the majority are. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, 
it will make a record of any incident its made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. 
Insurers can view the information on CUE when considering offering a policy to a consumer. 
So Mr L did the right thing by informing Ageas of the incident and Ageas passed this 
information on as it said it would. 
Ageas say the incident was originally recorded as open but following receipt of further 
information it was recorded as non-fault and closed. This was about a month before Mr Ls 
policy was due to end. Ageas wrote to Mr L with updated documents, which recorded the 
accident in the section About the drivers insurance history. Ageas said there would be no 
increase in the cost of Mr Ls insurance policy for that year.
Mr L says he was told by Ageas in a phone call that things were resolved to his satisfaction. 
However he says it was only when shopping around for a new policy that he discovered 
some other insurers were increasing the price quoted because of the non-fault incident. Mr L 
says this made it much more time consuming to shop around for a new policy, because the 
price quoted online on price comparison sites might not have taken the incident into account, 
and he could only know the actual price by phoning each insurance company. Mr Ls 
insurance policy with Ageas didnt automatically renew. He says by the time he received the 
final response to his complaint from Ageas, the policy had ended, so there was no time to 
shop around. So Mr L says he was forced into taking out a new policy with Ageas.
Ageas did send its final response letter to Mr L shortly after his policy ended. However I dont 
think anything would have been different if Ageas had responded earlier, as the incident was 
correctly recorded on the CUE database and it is up to different insurers how they treat a 
previous no-fault claim. Ageas responded to Mr Ls complaint within the eight weeks allowed 
by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr L says he was misled by the phone call with Ageas. He says the fine print in a letter he 
may or may not have received doesnt undermine this. He says he wasnt told his status with 
other insurers might have changed. 
I dont agree that Ageas misled Mr L. It was clear from his insurance documents that he 
needed to tell Ageas about the incident and that Ageas would pass this information on to 
various databases. Ageas has no control over how other insurers might treat this 
information. The claim was originally recorded as open, but then following further information 
was correctly recorded as non-fault. I think Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in doing this.
It was open to Mr L to shop around for new insurance before or after he received the 
response to his complaint from Ageas. So I cant agree that he was forced into taking out a 
new policy with Ageas.
Mr L also complained about how Ageas has recorded his NCD. I think Ageas has made a 
fair and reasonable response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint, so I wont be asking Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay any compensation to him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman