DRN-2962639
The complaint
Mr L complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly rejected a claim he made 
for storm damage under a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L says there was a storm in June 2020 where his home is situated. He believes this 
caused some damage to his roof as the following day water was found to be leaking into an 
upstairs bedroom. He called Acromas to make a claim but says this was quickly rejected on 
the basis that there were no storm conditions. Although Acromas offered to arrange an 
investigator to visit his home, Mr L said he needed to get the roof fixed quickly to prevent 
further damage and did so. 
Mr Ls position now is that the roof was originally damaged during a storm in February 2020 
which lifted some tiles allowing water to enter the roof and damage certain batons over the 
following months. The storm in June caused the damaged batons to give way leading to the 
collapse of roof tiles. Other than that, the roof was considered to be in overall good 
condition. This position, Mr L says, is what he was told by the company owner that arranged 
the repair. However, it appears that the owner gleaned this information from contractors he 
used to carry out the repair. There is no written report or photographs in support.
Our investigator considered there were storm conditions. She said damaged batons enabling 
the collapse of roof tiles could be consistent with damage caused by a storm. But in line with 
our usual approach to storm damage claims, she didnt think the weather conditions in June 
2020 were the main cause of damage. The investigator explained that Mr L said his builder 
had suggested batons in a particular area of the roof weakened by water damage had been 
ongoing for several months. And apparently, he thought roof tiles were lifted in the February 
storm, which allowed water to enter the roof and damage those batons. So, for the damage 
found in June the investigator concluded that the June storm wasnt the main cause of 
damage.  
The investigator went on to consider whether the February storm should lead to cover under 
the policy. But she didnt think there was cover because the storm didnt directly damage the 
batons, at best the roof tiles may have lifted. She also thought about whether damage was 
covered under different sections but wasnt so satisfied. 
Mr L disagreed and provided several replies on his interpretation of what happened and 
cited parts of our online publications. The basis though is that there was a storm, the 
damage was consistent with a storm and the weakened batons couldnt be said to be wear 
and tear due to the short period between February and June 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator outlined our usual approach to storm damage complaints. In summary, we 
usually ask ourselves three main questions, which if all answered in the affirmative were 
likely to require the insurer to cover the claim. Those questions are as follows, and its the 
third question that the investigator wasnt persuaded could be answered affirmatively;
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
occurred?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The issue of whether there was a storm or not is usually the first question to answer. I 
disagree with the investigator in some respects. The weather station reading from a 
nationally recognised database of recorded weather observations shows wind gusts well 
below that considered to be capable of causing structural damage. And while sometimes we 
may consider rainfall alone may constitute storm conditions, the rainfall recorded by the 
weather station wasnt exceptionally high. Although that station is situated around 17 miles 
from Mr Ls home.
Mr L has sent various links to online articles about the weather conditions at the time in 
June, but these arent specific to his postcode area and are not persuasive of a storm where 
his house is situated. But even if I accepted there were storm conditions, that alone is not 
enough to demonstrate damage was caused by the storm to his roof. And its this issue Ill 
explore in more detail.
What is apparent in Mr Ls complaint is that there is little evidence of the damage to the roof. 
Acromas offered to send an expert to look at the damage but Mr L went ahead with the 
repairs quickly. If, as Mr L says, water was leaking through the roof, I can understand why 
hed want to repair the damage quickly. That being said, Ive not seen any photos or 
contemporaneous report from the contractors who carried out the repair. 
The main evidence Mr L provides about the damage is from the roofing company owner who 
relayed information he apparently obtained from the contractors hed instructed to carry out 
the repair. But thats not written down and is from his recollection of what he was apparently 
told. And Mr L says this about the information from that person on the issue of whether storm 
was the main cause of the damage;
that is his opinion based on looking up from the ground. He used another group of men to 
fix my roof and I did not ask him to provide an opinion until after the work was done which he 
did not supervise. Now I am not at all saying he is wrong, he may be right, but I have no real 
evidence to the state of my roof that confirms his analysis is the correct one. Maybe the 
storms in Feb did cause water damage to batons and that June was the final straw. Maybe 
that was not the cause?
Based on what Mr L has provided, including the italicised part above, I dont find it at all 
persuasive about the damage or the cause. Its second and third-hand information and 
doesnt satisfy me as to its reliability or accuracy on the issue of the extent of damage or the 
cause. 
What this means is that Im not satisfied the storm in February can reasonably be linked 
evidentially to any damage found in June. There was no inspection of the roof in February 
and theres no first-hand evidence about the damage found in June. The only people who 
apparently saw the damage are the contractors instructed by the roofing company owner 
and theyve not provided anything first-hand. And even if there was something from these 
contractors there is a major evidential issue in linking anything to February. So, I wouldnt be satisfied Acromas would be liable for anything from February given the lack of persuasive 
evidence.
So, what about the June incident? A roof in good condition usually withstands heavy rainfall 
and at its height the evidence may suggest batons were weakened by water over a period of 
time. While Mr L suggests this was from February that simply isnt evidenced by anything 
provided and is to a large extent mere conjecture. It may or may not be correct. Water could 
have been affecting the batons for much longer than Mr L asserts (February to June). There 
is simply no evidence either way to indicate how long the batons had been deteriorating.
It is for Mr L to demonstrate that he has a valid insurance claim - he needs to provide 
evidence that storm was the main cause of damage. He had the opportunity to do that when 
having the roof repaired through a report from the repairers and / or photographs of the 
damage. He seeks to blame Acromas for not telling him to get photographs. But as he knew 
he was making or intending to make an insurance claim, it is remiss not to have any 
contemporaneous evidence to support his claim from those who apparently saw and 
repaired the damage.
The fact that Acromas didnt consider there to have been a storm didnt affect Mr Ls ability 
to get information to demonstrate a valid claim. And in the absence of evidence Im not 
persuaded storm conditions have, on the balance of probabilities, been shown to be the 
main cause of damage to the roof.
I know Mr L has also expressed dissatisfaction that Acromas didnt do something 
immediately when he told them his roof was leaking. His policy schedule shows he hadnt 
taken out the option for Home Emergency cover which could have been useful for him in 
the situation. And the policy does provide some assistance in emergency situations;
Emergency Repair Helpline
If you have an urgent repair and need help finding a suitable tradesman like a plumber, 
electrician, locksmith or glazier, we will put you in touch with a suitable, qualified repairer.
This isnt though a contractual duty on Acromas to instruct its own agents to assist rather, if 
asked, to provide details of a qualified repairer.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman