DRN-3411792
The complaint
Ms M complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) for the way it has 
offered to settle her insurance claims. She wants RSA to increase its offer of settlement to 
match the quotes she has received from her preferred contractors.
What happened
In 2021, Ms M experienced two escapes of water at her home. One was in the bathroom 
upstairs and the other was in the kitchen below.
Ms M submitted claims to RSA. 
A surveyor appointed for RSA attended Ms Ms home. He made comments about the work 
required and did not stay for a long assessment of the damage. 
He prepared schedules of work for both claims. These totalled around £7000 worth of work 
for the damage caused by the bathroom leak and around £1100 for the damage caused by 
the leak in the kitchen.
Ms M was unhappy with the assessment of the kitchen damage. RSA appointed a new 
agent to reassess the damage. They considered that it would cost around £2000 for the 
kitchen leak. 
RSA offered for its agents to undertake the repair work, or to cash settle the claims based on 
those assessments of cost. 
Ms M does not want RSAs agents to undertake the work. She wants her own contractors to 
manage the repairs. She has obtained quotes from them at a higher cost. 
Ms M contacted us. She complained that she thought RSAs surveyor was unprofessional 
when attending her home and she did not feel that he had taken into account all damage 
caused by the leaks. She was upset that he had not removed fittings to inspect the damage, 
and that his assessment did not include a full kitchen and bathroom replacement. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was 
that he upheld Ms Ms complaint about unprofessional comments made by the surveyor. He 
did not, however, consider that RSA had acted unfairly in its assessment of the damage 
caused by the leaks, or in how much it would cash settle for the repairs, if Ms M chose not to 
have RSAs agents do the repair work. The investigator noted the policy did not provide for 
full replacement of matching items (such as kitchen units or a bathroom suite) and would 
only replace damaged items. He recommended that RSA pay Ms M £100 compensation to 
reflect the unprofessional comments made by the surveyor, but did not recommend that the 
complaint otherwise be upheld.
Ms M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. Ms M has queried the 
qualifications of both the investigator and me, and has queried whether we are competent to 
assess claims about an escape of water without specialist expertise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Ms upset following her first meeting with the surveyor. She has explained 
that she has caring responsibilities for others in the house and that she is unwilling to allow 
contactors into the home if she does not trust them. 
The surveyors initial comments, relating to the quotes she had received from her preferred 
contractors, made her lose trust and feel exposed. 
I appreciate that she does not trust the surveyor engaged by RSA, but our role is to look at 
whether RSA has acted reasonably and fairly, in line with the policy terms. 
My colleague has previously explained the role of our service, and that we review the way 
that financial businesses have acted. If there has been unfairness, we can direct that 
businesses put matters right, but our role is not to punish businesses, or to dictate the way 
they should carry out their business.  
Ms M has expressed concerns about my, and the investigators, experience in assessing 
escapes of water. She has looked into our professional backgrounds and is concerned that 
we do not have expertise on assessing damage. 
I should make clear that I am not a surveyor, and I have made no attempt to assess the 
damage that was sustained at Ms Ms home. Our role is to not to review professional 
judgements about damage, but to look at how the business has handled the claim, and 
whether it has done so in line with the policy terms. 
In this instance, I note that Ms M is not happy with the valuation that RSA has put on the 
work, and she thinks that RSA should settle her claim at the valuation quoted by her chosen 
contractors. It is not for me to assess the damage, nor to decide how much it would cost to 
repair it. I am looking at what the policy covered, and whether the business has acted fairly 
and reasonably in its consideration of Ms Ms claims. 
Here, RSA has surveyed the property and calculated what repairs it considers are required, 
as consequences of the leaks. RSA has offered to undertake the work to put the property 
back in the condition it was in before the leak, taking into account that the policy does not 
cover replacement of undamaged items in a set (such as undamaged kitchen units). 
Ms Ms policy documentation explains how claims should be settled. It explains that the 
business may carry out repairs or it may elect to cash settle the claim. The policy states that, 
if it is cash settling, it will only pay out the amount it would have cost the business to carry 
out the repairs itself. 
Ms M agreed to be bound by those terms when she took out her policy. 
Insurers are obliged to indemnify consumers who suffer an insured incident, and they have 
to put them back in the position they were in before the loss (subject to any excess or any 
policy term about decrease in value or  as here  not replacing entire matching sets). If the 
business decides not to carry out the work itself then we would expect the business to 
ensure that the consumer is able to have repairs carried out for the settlement sum. In that 
case we would expect the business to match the market rate achievable by the consumer.  
When, however, the business is offering to carry out the repairs itself, and the consumer wishes to cash settle instead, the business is entitled to assess how much it would have cost 
it to do the repairs, and only settle for that amount, as set out in the policy.
I have made enquiries with RSA and RSA has explained that if Ms M allowed it to carry out 
the repairs, it would provide 12 month guarantees on all work and materials. It also 
explained that if, in the course of the work being done, further damage that had been caused 
by the leaks came to light then RSA would be notified, would carry out a further assessment, 
and that RSA could then authorise additional repairs. For example, when the tiled floor in the 
kitchen is lifted, if it became clear that there was damage to joists caused by the leak, then 
RSAs contractors would seek authorisation to increase the scope of the repairs.  
Ms M considers that RSA should pay the amount she has been quoted by other contractors, 
but these quotes include items not provided for in the scope of works, and they include a full 
replacement bathroom suite and full replacement kitchen, and some investigations into 
possible further damage. 
This is not what is provided for by Ms Ms policy and so I do not think it would be reasonable 
to require RSA to pay the costs Ms Ms contractors have quoted. 
I appreciate that Ms M does not wish to use RSAs contractors, but I think that RSA has 
made a reasonable offer to settle the claim. If Ms M were willing to allow RSA to conduct the 
work she would be entitled to have the repairs carried out to a good standard, she would be 
able to raise any concerns she had with the contractors, and if there were issues with the 
repairs she would be able to make a further complaint to RSA. 
If she does not wish to use RSAs contractors she does not have to, but if she elects to cash 
settle instead, RSA is entitled to calculate settlement by reference to what it would have cost 
RSA to do the work itself. 
It appears that it has done this, and I agree with my colleagues view that RSA has acted 
fairly. 
I understand that Ms M felt that the original surveyor was unprofessional in his comments, 
and that my colleague recommended that RSA pay Ms M £100 compensation to reflect this. 
I agree with this, and also I consider that if Ms M now decides to allow RSA to carry out the 
repairs, RSA should make every effort to ensure that the surveyor who Ms M initially met is 
not involved further in the work. 
Putting things right
I therefore agree that in order to put matters right, RSA should pay to Ms M £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience in relation to the surveyors unprofessional 
comments. 
RSA should also ensure that, if Ms M decides to have RSA carry out the repairs, that the 
surveyor is not involved further. 
If Ms M maintains her decision to cash settle rather than for RSA to carry out the repairs, I 
do not criticise the calculation of settlement it has reached.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to pay £100 compensation to Ms M. I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint about the amount of settlement offered, and do not ask 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything further in this regard. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman