DRN-3837085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about how Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) dealt 
with a claim under their home insurance policy for a lost watch. 
The complaint has been brought to us by Mr and Mrs Rs insurance broker on their behalf, 
but I will refer to Mr and Mrs R for ease. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had home insurance with Highway from January 2018 to January 2021. They 
then took out a home insurance policy with an insurer who I will refer to as S, starting on 3 
January 2021. 
In December 2021 Mrs R discovered she had lost her watch and so they reported it to their 
insurance broker. Mr and Mrs R say they werent aware the watch was lost when they took 
out the policy with S. They told the broker they last saw the watch around 12 to 18 months 
prior. 
The watch was kept in the bedside table and not worn regularly. Mr and Mrs R say there was 
no evidence of a break in during this period. They said the watch must have been taken by 
someone they let into the house such as contractors. The missing watch wasnt reported to 
police. 
The claim was declined on the basis Highway said Mr and Mrs R have a duty to prove they 
have suffered a loss which is covered under the policy. And since there is no evidence to 
support that the loss occurred while the policy was in force, Highway would not consider the 
claim. Highway suggested Mr and Mrs R should refer the claim to their previous insurer, S. 
Mr and Mrs R say S declined the claim because the timeframe for the watch being lost was 
outside the period of insurance. However as a gesture of goodwill S offered to pay 50% of 
the claim. Mr and Mrs R approached Highway to pay the remaining 50% of the claim but it 
refused. It said it wouldnt have insured an item which wasnt in the possession of the 
customer at inception of the policy, and so the loss wasnt covered by the policy. 
And so Mr R referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for 
him. She didnt uphold the complaint. She said Highway wasnt the insurer at the time the 
watch was noticed as missing and there is nothing to say when the loss happened. On that 
basis the investigator said it wouldnt be fair to hold Highway responsible for any of the costs 
involved in replacing the watch. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators outcome. They said asking each insurer to 
pay a 50% share is a sensible resolution otherwise they will be substantially out of pocket. 
Highway didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im genuinely sorry that Mr and Mrs R suffered this loss. I cant imagine how upsetting 
it wouldve been for Mrs R to find that her watch was missing. 
My role here is to look at whether Highways declination of the claim was fair and in line with 
the terms of the policy. I have read the policy terms to understand the cover provided. 
The policy says, we will cover you for all risks of physical loss or damage to your contents 
during the period of insurance as a result of a sudden and unforeseen event. It goes on to 
say it provides cover, if an unspecified item of jewellery and watches is lost or damaged 
beyond repair following an insured event. 
An insured event is described as, a circumstance arising during the period of insurance 
which results in loss, damage or liability. 
I have considered whether there was an insured event which would be covered under the 
policy. In doing so Ive started from the general principle that where a policyholder makes a 
claim for loss, the onus in the first instance is for them to show theres been an insured 
event.
On looking at the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs R Im not persuaded they have shown 
an insured event has occurred. They noticed the watch was missing in 2021 and estimate it 
was last seen 18 months previously. But there is nothing to substantiate that. It isnt 
definitively known if the watch was stolen, by whom, or when this happened. And in the 
absence of any evidence I cant say its fair to ask Highway to pay the claim. And I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Highway to decline the claim on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs R asked if Highway would accept a settlement to cover 50% of the loss. But it 
didnt agree based on the reasons it had already given. Insurance policies dont cover every 
eventuality. The insurer is free to decide what cover its prepared to offer and ultimately what 
risks it is willing to accept. We expect the cover provided to be clearly explained. And having 
considered the policy documentation I think Highways view is reasonable. 
I have to decide if Highway has unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I dont think, taking 
all the evidence into account, that it has. Its not the responsibility of the insurer to prove an 
insured event didnt take place. Rather its up to the insured to prove it did. I dont think it 
would be fair, in the circumstances, to conclude that Mr and Mrs R have shown this to an 
acceptable level such that Highways decision to decline the claim was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman