DRN-3767544
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt do enough to protect her 
when she fell victim to a scam and hasnt recovered or reimbursed her losses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Mrs K has told us that she fell victim to a scam. She made payments of over £7,000 
(including fees) to a company, via an intermediary. She believed she was paying a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, and that payments were being made from there 
to a cryptocurrency trading platform. But Mrs K later questioned whether shed 
actually paid the legitimate cryptocurrency exchange  as she didnt recognise the 
way it appeared on her statements. 
Based on what Ive seen, it does appear that the payments were being made to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. But its not clear whether or not the 
cryptocurrency trading platform the payments were sent on to is legitimate. So I dont 
know if Mrs K has been the victim of a scam. While I know she lost money, that could 
have been the result of losses from genuine trading. And I note that Mrs K was able 
to recover around £1,500  which might suggest that this wasnt a scam as returning 
funds means less gain for the scammer. However, Im going to proceed on the basis 
that this was a scam for completeness as the overall outcome is the same, in that I 
wont be asking Tesco to take any further action. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs K authorised the disputed payments made using her Tesco 
credit card. So the starting position would be that shed be liable for these payments. 
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant law, regulations and good industry practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before making the payment. If Tesco failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
I appreciate that, overall, Mrs K lost a significant sum of money. But the amount 
wasnt paid in a single large or out of character transaction. It was spread over 13 
separate, smaller increments. The first payments, made on the same day, appear to 
have been for £299.98 and £225.86. I dont consider these payments to be significant 
enough that they should have flagged with Tescos fraud systems.
Payments continued to be made over the next three weeks. The highest amount was 
for £2,081.14. While a more substantial sum, I dont consider this to be significant 
enough to have alerted Tesco to an issue. And by this point, the payments would 
have become a pattern of spending, which means they wouldnt have appeared 
unusual to Tesco.  
So, having considered the payments Mrs K made to the cryptocurrency exchange, 
Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered 
Tescos fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated she was in the 
process of being scammed.  
Ive also thought about whether Tesco could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mrs K reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a credit 
card can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute, or under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card providers such as Visa and 
Mastercard. That process is subject to the rules of the scheme and we wouldnt 
expect a bank to pursue matters to final arbitration if there was no prospect of 
success. 
In these circumstances, Mrs K used her credit card to pay a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange platform before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the potential 
scammer. So, she wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these 
circumstances because the service would be considered provided (i.e. the purchase 
of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Tesco have acted unreasonably by 
failing to pursue a chargeback claim in these circumstances. 
In order to have a valid claim against Tesco under S75, there needs to be a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Mrs K was trading with the cryptocurrency 
trading platform but her funds didnt go directly here  rather they went via the 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange before being forwarded on. Im afraid this means 
there is an additional party in the chain which mean there isnt a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. So there isnt a valid S75 claim here.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman