DRN-4530583
The complaint
The estates of Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has failed to 
refund money taken by a third party from their bank accounts following their deaths.
This complaint is brought by the executor of Mr and Mrs Cs estates (Mr A). For ease of 
reference, I will refer to Mr A as the complainant throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C both passed away in June 2018. Mr A, as the executor of their estates, paid 
for their funerals on 2 July 2018. However, he said it wasnt until 2020 that he discovered an 
unauthorised third party (Mr As niece) had closed Mr and Mrs Cs accounts and also 
claimed to have paid for their funerals, which led to Barclays wrongfully paying money out of 
the account to the funeral director and to his niece, which Mr A says the bank had no 
authority to do. 
Barclays explained that, following Mr and Mrs Cs death, it was approached by Mr As niece 
who reported the deaths and provided the relevant documentation, closure forms and ID to 
have the funerals paid for and estate proceeds released. Barclays said it was unaware that 
Mr A was the executor of the estate at the time as it didnt have a grant of probate. By the 
time it received the grant of probate showing Mr A as the rightful executor, Barclays had 
already paid the estate proceeds to the funeral directors and the balance of the accounts, 
totalling £779.54, to Mr As niece.
Mr A complained as he was told to obtain a grant of probate, and that upon submitting this 
he would receive the total amount held in Mr and Mrs Cs accounts at the time of their 
deaths, which totalled £25,980.46. However, Mr A complained when he discovered that 
Barclays had already released the estate proceeds without his authorisation. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong, as it had paid the funeral costs in line with its 
bereavement process as it had received sufficient documentation from a family member 
claiming to be Mr and Mrs Cs representative, and it wouldnt have known an executor had 
been appointed. Unhappy with this, Mr A referred the matter to our service.
Following the involvement of our service, Barclays agreed that the residual amounts 
remaining in Mr and Mrs Cs accounts should have been paid to Mr A as the executor. And it 
also came to light that £3,150 had been withdrawn from the accounts after their deaths by 
someone other than Mr A. So, Barclays offered to pay Mr A a total of £3,929.54, consisting 
of the original residual balance of £779.54 left in the accounts, plus the £3,150 that had been 
withdrawn by the unauthorised third party. 
Our investigator considered the matter and thought that Barclays settlement offer was fair. 
She didnt think it had acted incorrectly by paying the funeral invoice based on the 
documentation it had received, but she said the balance of Mr and Mrs Cs accounts should 
have been paid to Mr A as the rightful executor, which is what Barclays was now offering to 
do. So, she didnt think Barclays would need to pay anything over and above this to the 
estates. Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as Im satisfied 
Barclays offer to put things right is fair in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
As Ive outlined above, Barclays has now offered to pay the balance remaining in Mr and 
Mrs Cs accounts after the funeral invoice was paid. So, its no longer in dispute that this 
amount is owed to the estate, as Barclays has conceded that Mr As niece was not the 
rightful recipient. Ive therefore considered whether it acted correctly by paying the funeral 
costs (amounting to £21,865) to the funeral director.
Mr A submits that Barclays had no proper authority to pay the funeral invoice as the 
instruction did not come from him as the executor. However, Im satisfied it received enough 
information and documentation to pay the invoice. Barclays wouldnt have known that Mr As 
niece was not acting as a representative for Mr and Mrs C following their passing. Indeed, 
she signed a form stating that she was: 
I am entitled, either solely or with others, to the balance(s) in the deceaseds 
account with the Barclays group 
I give this indemnity both in my personal capacity and as the Deceaseds personal 
representative.
And in light of the amount of money left in Mr and Mrs Cs accounts when they died, I dont 
think it was necessary for Barclays to insist on a grant of probate at that stage. Its common 
practice for banks to release the funds of a deceased persons account without requiring 
such formal documentation as a grant of probate, to assist with expenses such as funeral 
costs, so long as they have received sufficient documentation to be satisfied that the person 
requesting the funds has authority to receive them. Indeed, Barclays bereavement guide on 
its website also sets this out:
Funeral and Tax payments
If theres a funeral bill or an inheritance tax invoice to pay, we can pay them using 
money in the account of the person whos passed away  so long as theres enough 
to cover the costs. 
I can see that Mr As niece provided all the required documentation to have the funeral costs 
paid. This included the account closure forms, death certificate, identification, and funeral 
invoice. This sort of documentation would not typically be in the possession of someone who 
was not acting on behalf of the estate or organising the funeral. So, I dont consider Barclays 
has acted unreasonably by paying the funeral costs in line with this, as there was nothing to 
suggest that any of the documentation provided had been submitted fraudulently, nor that 
Mr As niece had no authority to request payment of the invoice. 
I appreciate this means Mr A is now out of pocket of the funeral expenses he already paid, 
and that he is now unable to recoup the money Barclays paid to the funeral director, as it 
has since been passed on by the funeral directors to Mr As niece, who now wont return the 
money to the estate. But Im afraid this is something Mr A will need to pursue with the funeral 
directors or his family member directly, as I dont consider Barclays acted unreasonably by 
paying the funeral invoice based on the information it had been provided. So, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair for Barclays to pay this money again to the estates, as Mr A can seek to recover the money taken by his niece through the appropriate legal channels if she 
has wrongly taken receipt of the estates money from the funeral director. Given this is a civil 
matter between these parties, it is not something I would expect Barclays to become 
involved in or assist with either.  
Therefore, while I fully appreciate why Mr A thinks Barclays should pay the £25,980.46 he 
was expecting, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask the bank to do this, as 
it has effectively already paid this money to the estate when it paid the funeral costs for both 
Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr A is also unhappy that Barclays asked him to obtain a grant of probate after he claimed to 
be the executor and rightful recipient of the funds. I appreciate that the total value of Mr and 
Mrs Cs accounts would not typically require a grant of probate in order to claim whatever 
money was remaining. However, in this instance, there was a dispute over who was rightfully 
entitled to the proceeds of the accounts, as someone else had already signed forms saying 
they were the deceaseds personal representative. Therefore, I dont think it was 
unreasonable in such circumstances for Barclays to request a grant of probate after Mr A 
claimed to be the executor, as this would definitively show who the courts deem to have the 
role of administering the estates. And it is because Mr A was able to produce a grant of 
probate that Barclays is now paying the residual amounts left in the account to him after it 
had already been paid to his niece. 
I also understand that Mr A is unhappy about being told he would receive the total proceeds 
of the estate (£25,980.46) upon obtaining the grant of probate. However, Barclays has now 
offered to pay the residual amount remaining in the estate (taking account of the funeral 
costs it has paid). I understand it is not the full amount Mr A was told to expect, but Ive 
already set out the reasons why I dont think Barclays needs to pay this total amount to him, 
as he will need to seek to recover the remaining funds from his family member. 
I appreciate Mr A wants this service to request copies of the phone calls he had with 
Barclays to show that it told him he would be paid £25,980.46. But I dont consider it 
necessary to listen to these calls to fairly determine this complaint. I say this because, even 
if Barclays did mistakenly tell Mr A that he would receive the full £25,980.46 upon providing 
the grant of probate, it doesnt mean it would be bound to pay it, and I dont consider it would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to expect Barclays to pay it either, 
given Im not persuaded it made a mistake by paying the funeral costs in the first place. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and I understand his strength 
of feeling about his complaint. However, much of the issues raised here seem to ultimately 
be connected to the conduct of his family member in wrongly taking the money from the 
funeral director, rather than any wrongful act that Barclays can fairly or reasonably be held 
responsible for.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has made an offer to pay the residual amounts remaining in Mr and 
Mrs Cs accounts to their estates (taking account of the unauthorised cash withdrawals), less 
the amount Barclays paid to the funeral director  totalling £3,929.54.
I conclude that this settlement offer is fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
Barclays should pay this amount to the estates of Mr and Mrs C (if it has not done so 
already, within 28 days of receiving Mr As acceptance of this decision.
Mr A should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, it will purely be a matter between Mr A and Barclays as to whether the £3,929.54 offer 
still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror 
after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of 
Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman