DRN-3623836
The complaint
Mr P complaints about the amount of time it took Standard Life Assurance Limited to transfer 
his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to a different provider AB.
He feels that as a result of the delay he has lost out financially.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr P decided that he wanted to transfer his SIPP from Standard Life to AB. 
Mr Ps SIPP contained both crystallised and uncrystallised funds, and two suspended Arch 
Cru funds.
On 29 June, Standard Life acknowledged his request, and on 30 July 2020, Received a 
request from AB. The request asked that cash and assets were transferred in-specie but 
excluded the two Arch Cru funds. As AB would not accept the suspended funds, this meant 
that the transfer would need to be done as a partial transfer  leaving the Arc Cru funds with 
Standard Life.
Standard Life only agree to a partial transfer if a concession was agreed first  although it 
was not obliged to agree to this. This needed to be made between Mr Ps IFA, and Standard 
Life.
Mr Ps IFA applied for a concession on 13 August 2020. The request was for a partial 
transfer of crystalised funds on an in-specie basis. It also appears that at this point, Mr Ps 
IFA thought that all of Mr Ps funds were crystalised  however about 10% of the fund was 
uncrystallised. Standard Life granted the concession on 15 September 2020.
It later became apparent that the concession granted could not be actioned by the Standard 
Life transfer team. This was because the concession granted wouldve broken HMRC rules if 
it had been allowed to proceed.
A member of Standard Lifes transfer team then had a conversation with Mr Ps IFA to 
discuss what could be done. Initially it was suggested that Mr P sell all of the crystalised 
assets to cash, and then transfer the cash to AB. However, this wouldve meant leaving the 
uncrystallised funds within the Standard Life SIPP.
Standard Life suggested a better potential solution to the problem. It suggested that Mr P 
sell the crystalised and uncrystallised funds to cash  and then complete a two-stage cash 
transfer to AB. Mr P would also need to leave three years worth of cash in the Standard Life 
SIPP to cover fees as it was already known that AB would not accept the Arch Cru funds 
which would have to remain in the Standard Life SIPP. It explained that by selling down to 
cash, HMRC rules would be followed  and that by doing a two-stage transfer, Mr P could 
allocate the funds to the new SIPP to AB while keeping the same proportion of crystalised 
and uncrystallised funds. However, it also explained that Mr Ps funds would be out of the 
market for a period of time while the transaction was made. 
This second concession was requested by Mr Ps IFA on 5 October 2020 and agreed by 
Standard Life on 8 October 2020, and the transfer was completed on 7 December 2020.
In December 2020, Mr P complained to Standard Life. He said that it caused unnecessary 
delays to his SIPP transfer to AB, and that this had caused him a financial loss of 
approximately £30,000. 
Standard Life didnt agree  but offered Mr P £200 in recognition of the time it took to agree 
the concession. Dissatisfied, Mr P brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint, and thought that Standard Life had done 
something wrong  and needed to take steps to putt things right for Mr P.
In summary, our Investigator said:
While the transfer was admittedly complex and may not have been able to be done 
as quickly as Mr P wouldve liked, it still shouldnt have taken as long as it did.
They acknowledged that Standard Life was under no obligation to grant a concession 
to facilitate the transfer.
While they wouldve expected Mr Ps IFA to know about the crystalised and 
uncrystallised funds, this wasnt what ultimately caused the delay as even if Mr Ps 
IFA had requested a concession an in-specie transfer on all of the SIPP apart from 
the suspended Arch Cru funds, this would not have been possible under HMRC 
rules.
In the call between Mr Ps IFA and Standard Life on 2 October 2020, Standard Life 
clearly explained what was wrong with the request for the concession  this couldve 
been explained back when the request was originally made  and this is what has 
caused the delay.
Standard Life disagreed with this. In summary, it said that:
Given the complexity of the transfer, and using the receiving schemes (ABs) guide it 
explains that it is important that a clients expectations should be set on how long a 
transfer may take  and that this may be up to six months.
As it didnt need to agree to this transfer, and was only trying to help, it doesnt agree 
that the time taken to complete was excessive, especially when it was within the six 
months set out in ABs guide.
Mr Ps IFA shouldve been aware of what assets Mr P had, and that the original 
concession request wouldve gone against HMRC rules.
It wasnt Standard Lifes responsibility to tell the IFA what was required  and it 
couldve provided support if hed asked  it was up to the IFA to ensure the 
recommendation they were making could actually be processed.
It feels that a remediation starting point of 30 July 2020 is unfair as the transfer could 
never have taken place at this time.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their view  and explained this to Standard 
Life. It still didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld, and Standard Life 
should take steps to put things right for him. Ive previously written to Mr P and Standard Life 
explaining that while I agreed with the outcome our Investigator had reached, I didnt agree 
with the dates the Investigator had used when setting out how to put things right, and 
explained why. Mr P and Standard Life have both acknowledged the changes I suggested, 
and Mr P has raised no objections, and Standard Life hasnt added anything further, so I will 
now formalise this in my final decision.
Firstly, I feel it is important to acknowledge that I agree that the request to transfer Mr Ps 
SIPP was not straightforward  and I dont think that it wouldve been realistic for it to have 
been completed as quickly as Mr P suggests that it should. I can also see that Mr P 
suggests in his original complaint that Standard Life blocked the transfer. But I dont agree 
that this was the case.
As Ive said above, Mr Ps request was made more complex by the fact that his SIPP held 
two Arch Cru funds  so a concession was required  complicating the matter. Im also 
aware that Standard Life was under no obligation to grant a concession  and that it agreed 
to do so in order to assist Mr P with his request. Standard Life says that it shouldnt be 
penalised for doing so, but the fact is Standard Life did agree to assist Mr P, so I think it is 
reasonable to consider whether it is responsible for any delays that arose whilst it assisted.
While I agree that Mr Ps IFA should have been aware of the structure of Mr Ps SIPP as 
held with Standard Life, this isnt this error that caused the delay to the transfer. The mistake 
which led to the delay was, in my view, caused by Standard Life agreeing to a concession 
that wouldve broken HMRC rules. I think Standard Life should have set out at the earliest 
possible opportunity the correct course of action for Mr P to achieve what he wanted.
Standard Life says that Mr Ps IFA shouldve known that the request he was making would 
break HMRCs rules, but it is also clear that Standard Life shouldve known this too. And 
overall I think that it did, given it was able to set out a working solution for Mr P when his IFA 
contacted it after it became known that the initial request could not proceed and the second 
concession request was made.
Had Standard Life provided the right information at the date of the original request, I think 
that the transfer couldve taken place much sooner, and that this is what has caused the 
delay and potential financial loss to Mr P. However, I dont think that the process couldve 
been started before 26 August 2020. I say this because a concession would always have 
needed to be agreed with Standard Life following the request from AB to transfer everything 
except the Arch Cru funds. This was requested on 12 August 2020, and I think a reasonable 
time to respond wouldve been by 26 August 2020. During this time, I would have expected 
Standard Life to have clarified the basis on which the transfer could go ahead and explained 
this to Mr Ps IFA. Im satisfied Mr Ps IFA wouldve acted on this immediately. So, assuming 
the correct request was made on 26 August 2020, the transfer ought to have been 
completed 46 working days on 30 October 2020.
I do agree with Standard Life that once the second concession request was made, things 
progressed as I would expect  and I do not think that there was any further delay after this 
point.
So, taking everything into account, I uphold Mr Ps complaint, and Standard Life should put 
things right as set out below.Putting things right
Its not possible to know how long the initial transfer request wouldve taken had everything 
gone as it should. So I need to think about what would be a reasonable timescale to apply in 
order to put Mr P back to, or as close as possible to, the position he wouldve been in had 
things gone right from the date of the first request.
I think that a reasonable timescale would be to base this on how long the second request 
took to be actioned  which was 46 working days. As Ive explained above, I think the correct 
request ought to have been made on 26 August 2020, so the transfer ought to have been 
completed 46 working days on 30 October 2020.
I also agree with our investigator that Standard Life has caused Mr P a deal of distress and 
inconvenience in this matter, and that it should pay Mr P £300 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset it has caused.
Standard Life should:
Assume that the funds were transferred to AB on 30 October 2020.
Establish what date the existing funds would have needed to be sold to cash to meet 
the 30 October transfer date and use the value on that date as the transfer value.
Assume that the transferred funds would have gone into the same investments and 
in the same proportions in the AB SIPP as they did on 7 December 2020.
Compare the current value of the AB SIPP with the fair value, assuming the funds 
had been invested on 30 October 2020.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If there is a loss, Standard Life should pay into Mr P's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Standard Life shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Standard Life is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.In addition, you should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered whilst trying to resolve this matter.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Standard Life consider that it is required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how
much it has taken off. Standard Life should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SLAL Only AB SIPP 30 
OctoberSettlement N/A
SIPP suspended 2020 date
Arch Cru
investments
still held,
together
with cash to
cover
charges
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it been invested into
the AB SIPP on 30 October 2020 instead of 7 December 2020.
Any withdrawal from the AB SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and Standard Life Assurance Limited should put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman