DRN-2183365
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc didnt remove a default notice on his credit file having 
been directed to do so by an ombudsman. He also complains that it unfairly defaulted a 
second account.
What happened
Mr B had a complaint investigated by this service after TSB defaulted his current account. In 
March 2016, the ombudsman deciding the case upheld the complaint, and directed that TSB 
was to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file, show the account as satisfied and pay him 
compensation. 
When Mr B checked his credit file early in 2020 he found he had two defaults recorded  one 
was the original one which the ombudsman had directed to be removed, and the second 
was from a student account that he said he didnt recognise, so didnt think the debt was his.
He complained to TSB. In their final response letter, TSB apologised that the default had not 
been removed as it should have been. They offered Mr B £250 in compensation and said it 
would ensure the default record was removed from his credit file. But it said the second 
account was his, (account number 007**360) and he had opened it shortly after his first one 
was closed. And it had been correctly defaulted as it was in debt, and he hadnt made any 
effort to reduce or clear this debt. But TSB agreed to refund the interest and charges that 
had accrued on the account as it hadnt sent Mr B any statements detailing these.
Mr B didnt accept TSBs decision or offer of compensation and complained to our service.
Mr B told our investigator he had not seen any statements for the account, and it was so 
long ago he couldnt be sure the debt was his. He also explained how TSB not removing the 
default marker had caused him significant stress and upset. And he was anxious about 
applying for credit as a result. 
TSB told our investigator the second default had been applied correctly to his second 
account. It said Mr B opened this account shortly after the original one was closed in 2014. It 
was a student account, so had an interest-free arranged overdraft of £500. It said Mr B spent 
up to this limit and then stopped using the account in November 2015, but the £500 overdraft 
remained. TSB converted the account into a classic account, and in September 2019 it 
started accruing interest and charges, and as Mr B had not made any effort to clear the debt 
and had not responded to its formal demand for payment, it defaulted the account. But as 
part of its investigation, TSB did find that it had not sent Mr B any statements for this account 
from when it began accruing interest and charges. So, TSB refunded the interest and 
charges applied, reducing the debt back to £500.
Our investigators view was that Mr Bs complaints should be upheld. She thought it would 
be fair and reasonable for TSB to remove the default from the second account (007**360) 
and pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. 
TSB didnt agree with the view. It said although it agreed with the £500 compensation and 
confirmed the first default had been removed from Mr Bs credit file, it maintained the default 
to his second account had been applied fairly and should not be removed. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no argument that TSB didnt remove the original default as it was directed to do, 
and Im glad that this has now been done. It has also been agreed that TSB will pay Mr B 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. All that remains 
for me to decide is whether TSB fairly applied a default to Mr Bs second account. And I 
dont think it did. Ill explain why.
This second account (007**360) was opened in 2014  Mr B cant remember doing this, but 
having seen the account statements and payments going into and out of it, to and from other 
accounts held by him, Im satisfied that it was his account. And as this was a student 
account, it had an agreed interest-free and charges-free overdraft of £500.
As I said, Ive seen statements from when the account was opened until April 2018, and can 
see debits and credits until November 2015. At this point the balance is in overdraft up to the 
limit of £500 and there is no further activity. So, Im satisfied that there is a debt of £500, and 
Mr B is responsible for this.
TSB has said the student account was converted into a classic account, which meant the 
overdraft then began accruing charges and interest. But Ive not seen anything which shows 
Mr B was informed of this, and indeed, TSB has said that an error meant it did not send Mr B 
any statements showing the interest and charges being applied. So, although I accept Mr B 
opened the account, and is responsible for the debt accrued, given the lack of activity on it 
over such a long period, on balance I think its probably likely that Mr B forgot about it. 
TSB said that it wrote to Mr B in October 2019, and again in November and December, 
telling him he needed to clear the overdraft from his account. But I dont think it told him 
about the impending changes to the account, and it didnt send any associated statements 
for the account. I think these, had they been sent, would have made it much clearer to Mr B 
what the letters meant. 
Mr B did call TSB in relation to the letters in January 2020 and questioned the origin of the 
account and the amount owed. There was also confusion relating to the previous complaint 
resolution. Given the confusion, and his questions about the status of the account and the 
lack of statements, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for TSB to put the default 
process on hold at this point, until a full investigation was completed.  But it didnt, and the 
account was defaulted in February 2020.
Ive not seen anything which would lead me to believe Mr B was unable to clear the debt 
from his account when it was changed from a student, to a classic account, nor when TSB 
wrote to him in October 2019. And had he been sent statements along with the collections 
letters, these would have clarified the nature of the debt, and I think, on balance, its likely 
that he would have cleared it. But he wasnt, and as a result Im satisfied that TSB applied a default to the account without fully explaining why and knowing there were questions over 
the origins of the debt. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied it was unfair of TSB to apply the default to Mr Bs account in February 2020, so 
this default should be removed from the account and his credit file altered to reflect this. 
Im also satisfied that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience TSB have caused him. Mr B has told our investigator that he would be willing 
for the compensation to be used to clear the debt he owes TSB, and I think that is a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require TSB Bank plc to do the following:
Remove the default from Mr Bs account number 007**360
Arrange for details of this default to be removed from Mr Bs credit file
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman