DRN-3936510
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs T complain that Dixipay Limited didnt do enough to prevent them losing
money to a scam.
Some of the money lost to the scam came from a joint account between Mr C and Mrs T. But
for ease of reading and as hes done the majority of the correspondence on the complaint, Ill
mostly just refer to Mr C where I mean both him and Mrs T.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I will keep my
summary of the background brief and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr C says he made payments to an account held with Dixipay. At the time he believed these
to be funding a legitimate investment with a firm Ill refer to as B. Mr C says he later learned
that B were operating a scam when he was unable to withdraw his funds. In April 2020 he
asked his banks to recall the payments hed sent  no money was recovered. Mr C
complained to Dixipay. He doesnt think they did enough to prevent his loss as theyd
allowed scammers to open and operate an account. He also doesnt think they responded
adequately to concerns raised by victims of the same or similar scams.
Ultimately Dixipay didnt offer any redress as they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
The matter was considered by our service and our Investigator didnt recommend it should
be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to agree with our Investigators outcome, and for essentially
the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, so Ill explain why. And as Im 
providing a greater level of detail, Im issuing this provisional decision to give both parties a
further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Whilst Mr C believed he was paying B, his payments actually went to an account in the
name of another business G. In the circumstances here Dixipay were providing their
customer G with a payment service. G then had its own customers or clients. Dixipay arent
responsible for decisions or actions taken by G.
Dixipay have evidenced that they correctly followed their process when opening Gs account.
I dont think they reasonably could have known (at that time) that the account they were
opening would later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think
Dixipay reasonably could have prevented Mr Cs loss in relation to its opening of the
account.
Ive also reviewed the activity on the account both before and soon after the arrival and
spending of Mr Cs funds. Given the previous account history, I dont think there was
anything so unusual in the account activity where Id have expected Dixipay to have
intervened or to have otherwise done more. So, again, I dont think it failed to appropriately
monitor the account.
Mr C has evidenced that another victim had contacted Dixipay in July 2019 reporting a
series of payments theyd made to the same account, as fraud. Dixipay have explained that
when they receive a notification alleging fraud they pass it on to G. G would then provide a
response directly to the client and share information with Dixipay. This is broadly what Id
expect in these circumstances and doesnt change my opinion as to whether Dixipay
appropriately monitored the account. In the course of any business relationship there may be
disputes and I dont think it was unreasonable for Dixipay to accept the evidence G provided
showing a link between them and the party raising the dispute.
When Mr C reported his payments to Dixipay, documents were provided by G evidencing a
link between them and Mr C. This included some of the identification documents Mr C had
provided as well as a declaration of deposit evidencing that the payment had been
authorised. And in any case, Im satisfied that by that point, all his funds had already been
removed from the account, so there would have been nothing to return, even if Dixipay ought
to have done more at that time.
Mr C has highlighted two other victims of the same scam, who he says have received
redress from Dixipay and he questions why he hasnt been treated the same. This complaint
is about the loss to Mr C. And what he is asking about here is a potential complaint from
another party. He is also making assumptions as to where the funds for the other partys
redress came from. I can only comment on Dixipays actions as they relate to Mr Cs
complaint. And in that context, Im satisfied that his funds had been sent on from the account
by the time Dixipay became aware there was a problem with his payments. And Dixipay
choosing to refund other victims is not a basis upon which I can fairly and reasonably ask
them to refund Mr C.
Mr C has made much of the fact that Dixipay ended their business relationship with G and
sent them a letter of termination on 22 February 2020. He believes Dixipay are at fault for
allowing his payments to credit and be spent from the account (after the relationship had
ended). Ive seen the letter of termination from Dixipay to G. And Im satisfied the reason
given for termination wasnt because Dixipay believed G to be operating a fraud or scam
(and that this isnt something they should reasonably have concluded). So due to this, I dont
think it was wrong for Dixipay to follow their usual process of allowing payments to continue
during a notice period following the notice of termination.
Mr C also says that G were linked to other businesses about whom there were warnings
online and that Dixipay had previously ended their relationship with these other companies.
He believes this means that Dixipay ought to have ended their relationship with G sooner. Id
generally expect Dixipay to monitor each of their customer accounts on an individual basis. I
appreciate that G shared what appears to be the same serviced offices with the other
companies. But each of these businesses is a distinct legal entity. And I dont think sharing
the same offices was enough of a reason to expect Dixipay to also close Gs account. I dont
think Dixipays decision to end their relationship with G at the time they did was
unreasonable. Ive not seen anything that persuades me that they reasonably ought to have
acted sooner in relation to the account that received Mr Cs funds (which was the one held
by G).
I sympathise with Mr C being the victim of a scam. But as Im not persuaded his loss is as a
result of failings by Dixipay, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to domore to resolve this complaint.
Dixipay didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr C provided a response which Ill 
address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is clearly unhappy with the outcome of my provisional decision. And some of his 
comments relate to how he feels about the Financial Ombudsman Service. He says that any 
evidence seems to have gone into the bin and that the outcome is predetermined to be in 
Dixipays favour. He has also highlighted his intention to pursue Dixipay in court if the 
provisional decision isnt overturned. 
Mr C has also questioned the reasons why Dixipay ended their relationship with B and 
another business. Similarly Mr C wants our service to share information about who was 
behind these other accounts. He wants to know if B and G and another business had the 
same owners / directors. It seems there may be some misunderstanding as to the role of our 
service. We investigate individual complaints. We arent here to investigate the wider 
activities and operations of Dixipay, that is the role of the regulator. Im also not here to 
provide a means of disclosure for Mr C for the court action he later intends to take. I can only 
comment about the actions of Dixipay that arise from matters relevant to him having paid Gs 
account and alleging that was as a result of a scam. And many of the points / questions Mr C 
has raised go beyond this and arent something that I can help with or comment on. 
Naturally, when deciding a dispute there is almost always going to be one disappointed 
party. And if Mr C doesnt accept my final decision, it wont be legally binding, and he is free 
to continue his dispute through other avenues as hes indicated he intends to. Id like to 
reassure Mr C that I have considered all the available evidence, even though the 
conclusions Ive reached differ to what he thinks. 
Some of Mr Cs submissions point out what he says are inconsistencies in what Dixipay 
have said. Presumably this is to question my reliance on the information theyve provided to 
our service. Ive considered this but I dont think that Dixipays information (much of which is 
backed up with documentation from the time) should be treated as unreliable such that it 
impacts the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr C reiterated his point about another person reporting a scam to Dixipay in July 2019. Ive 
addressed this in my provisional decision above and dont have anything further to add on 
this point. 
Mr C also said that he never had a relationship with G. He believed that he was paying B 
and that is who he dealt with throughout. I acknowledged this in my provisional decision. I 
also acknowledge that B did for a time have an account with Dixipay. But Mr C can only 
complain through our service about the account that he paid, which Im satisfied was Gs. 
I accept Mr Cs testimony that he sent his identification documents and declarations of 
deposits to B and not to G. But this isnt something I think Dixipay reasonably could have 
known when G presented the same documents to them. Again, I cant hold Dixipay liable for 
the actions of G. And I think it was reasonable for Dixipay to accept that documentation at 
the time. Mr C has questioned why I havent shared the specific reasons given by Dixipay for 
terminating their relationship with G. Just as a customer can choose with whom to have an 
account a business can make a decision as to whether to provide an account. And in the 
circumstances here Im satisfied Dixipay exercised their commercial discretion when ending 
their relationship with G. The reasons for them doing so arent something Im going to share 
directly with Mr C beyond saying that I confirm that the reasons Dixipay provided werent 
because they believed G to be operating a scam. Mr C says that the scammers clearly used 
multiple accounts with Dixipay, moving on to the next as each was closed. I accept it is 
possible this was the case. But Ive seen nothing that persuades me it was unreasonable for 
Dixipay to end their relationship with G at the time they did or that they should have done so 
sooner and that this would have impacted on the loss Mr C suffered. 
Mr C again points out that he paid Dixipay after theyd terminated their relationship with G. 
He wants to know how long the notice period was following the termination letter. This is 
information about Dixipays processes and not something I think is relevant to the outcome 
of this complaint. I remain satisfied that when Mr C made his payments to Gs account, it 
was still within the applicable notice period. 
Ive considered all Mr C has said but nothing has persuaded me to deviate from the outcome 
explained in my provisional decision. Im sorry Mr C has an outstanding loss and Ive no 
doubt he will remain dissatisfied with my decision. But as (within the context of my 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint) I dont think Dixipay are responsible for Mr Cs loss, 
Im not going to direct them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman