DRN-3212241
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy HSBC Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) hasnt reimbursed her after she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs Ms partner was contacted claiming to be from the fraud department of 
Bank A. They said his money was at risk and he wouldnt be protected unless he moved his 
money immediately. Mrs M also had an account with Bank A. Mrs M has said they were 
sceptical about the legitimacy of the call and asked the scammer to verify where they were 
calling from. The scammer gave them a mobile number they could call back on with a name 
and a password.
Mrs M spoke to the scammers the following day and they convinced Mrs M and her partner 
that they were calling from Bank As fraud team. They said corrupt staff at Bank A were 
accessing their accounts. They persuaded Mrs M during these calls, which took place over 
three days, that her First Direct account was also at risk.
Mrs M was told she could help by transferring money from her account into the corrupt staff 
members accounts, so the fraud team could monitor the activity. She was told she would get 
this money back within a week and policeman would be visiting her home to assist.
On 28 January 2021, around three days after the scammer initially contacted her and her 
partner, Mrs M sent payments of £3,000 and £4,000 from her First Direct account to two 
different accounts that belonged to the scammers. Mrs M instructed the payments online and 
says that when warnings appeared the scammers told her to ignore them as they didnt 
apply to her. 
The payments didnt arrive in the scammers account immediately so under the scammers 
instruction Mrs M called First Direct to ask what was happening. She was told the payment 
would take two hours to appear. Two hours later she contacted it again when the payment 
hadnt appeared in the scammers account to ask when the money would be moved. Shed 
been coached by the scammers to provide cover stories around the payments so First 
Direct, believing what shed told it, allowed the payments to go through.
Mrs M later realised shed been the victim of a scam. She reported the matter to First Direct 
but it didnt think it was at fault. Mrs M was unhappy with its response and brought the 
complaint to our service to consider.
Our investigator concluded First Direct should reimburse Mrs M for 50% of her loss as it 
shared some liability under the relevant regulations. They didnt feel First Direct had 
provided sufficient warnings to Mrs M when she made the payments as it was required to. 
First Direct didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
First Direct has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for First Direct to establish that a 
customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one or more of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mrs M ignore effective warnings?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The code sets out that an effective warning should enable a 
customer to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the 
consequences of not doing so. As a minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective 
warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. First Direct feels it 
gave Mrs M effective warnings in this case. It says these were given both when she 
instructed the payment online and then again when she called it to try and rush the payment 
through.
Ive listened to a recording of the call in which First Direct says it gave Mrs M an effective 
warning and I dont think the conversation it had with her was clear or impactful enough to be 
an effective warning in these circumstances. 
First Direct asked if Mrs M had been contacted out of the blue by someone asking her to 
make the payment and asked her to move money to a safe account. But it didnt explain 
more about safe account scams and how they tend to be perpetrated or that scammers 
pretend to be from customers own banks or that they claim to be trying to catch corrupt staff 
members. It also didnt explain any steps Mrs M could take to avoid falling victim to this kind 
of scam, such as calling her bank back on a legitimate number to check what she was being 
told. Whilst I accept Mrs M wasnt honest with First Direct about what the payment was for  she 
said she was making a payment to her nephew  I dont think its uncommon for victims to 
be coached into giving cover stories. I think it ought to have seemed unusual to First Direct 
that she was phoning to try and rush the payment through. And whilst she said the payment 
was for her nephew I dont think she provided a plausible explanation as to why the payment 
needed to be immediate or why she was so worried about the two hour delay. This kind of 
pressure is something Id expect First Direct to be on the look out for as an indication 
someone might be the victim of a scam.
First Direct has also said Mrs M ignored the effective warnings it gave when she instructed 
the payments online. Mrs M has told this service that she remembers seeing the warnings 
but the scammer was walking her through the payment instruction. And when the warnings 
started to appear they instructed her to ignore them.
Ive considered the warnings First Direct provided, and its subsequent submissions around 
why it feels they were effective in line with the requirements of the CRM code. But I dont 
consider the warnings were effective, so I dont agree First Direct has met its obligations 
under the code. 
The warning does say Mrs M should put the phone down if anyone asks her to move money 
and If someone calls you and asks you to move money  dont, even if its another account 
you already have. Remember, well never ask you to send money to a safe account or to 
another bank. But again, I dont think this brings to life what a scam of this nature looks like 
or the sophisticated nature of the scam  so it lacks impact. 
And it provides little detail about how safe account scams might work or how fraudsters 
impersonate bank staff and the kind of cover stories they provide. I dont think it effectively 
warned Mrs M to the extent she could apply any knowledge to her own situation which was 
slightly different to the one alluded to in the warning. 
Overall I havent found that Mrs M ignored effective warnings when making the payments to 
the scammers. 
Did Mrs M have a reasonable basis for believing what she was told by scammers?
Having considered what Mrs M has said about what she was told by scammers very 
carefully, overall, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing what she was told. In 
reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into account:
Scammers initially called Mrs Ms partner, not Mrs M. And they dont appear to have 
had any personal information about Mrs M or her accounts that she might reasonably 
have expected her bank to have. They appear only to have involved her, and told her 
that her account was at risk because she started speaking to them on her partners 
behalf.
Mrs M says she was immediately suspicious and that shed heard of safe account 
scams. She told the scammer about her suspicions and in order to convince her, the 
scammer gave her a number to call back on. It doesnt appear the scammer claimed 
this number could be looked up online or otherwise verified as an official Bank A 
number and was actually a mobile number. So its not clear why Mrs A felt this was 
persuasive or offered any assurance this meant they were calling from Bank A.
I dont think Mrs M has been able to explain why she was convinced she thought 
corrupt staff at Bank A would be able to access her account with First Direct. Whilst I 
understand why she thought they might know about the account if shed transferred 
money between them, I dont think this explains how she thought they would be able 
to access this account when they work for a different bank.Whilst I dont think the warnings given to Mrs M were effective as defined by the 
CRM code, I do think some of the things she was told, both online and when she 
spoke to First Direct on the phone, ought to have given her cause to think about 
things more carefully. And I would note that shed also spoken to Bank A during this 
period, which had also given her information about this type of scam that was 
relevant to her situation. 
I understand Mrs M has said she felt under a lot of pressure and she was worried 
about losing her money. But its also clear the scam, which involved her partner and 
several accounts, took place over three days. So although I do accept scammers are 
skilled in applying pressure, I think its clear there was time in between interactions 
with the scammers where Mrs M could try and verify some of what she was told.
Its also not clear why, given the alleged urgency of the situation, Mrs M accepted 
that her money would be safe while the scam was ongoing. For example it seems the 
scammers told them the money would be safe overnight after the initial call when 
arranging to call back the next day but its not clear why they would know this if the 
accounts were under attack from fraudsters.
Overall, I dont think Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing the payments she was 
making were genuine so she is partially liable for her loss.
Could First Direct have done more to recover Mrs Ms money?
First Direct has said that Mrs M contacted it on 28 January 2021 at 6.26pm to report she 
thought shed been the victim of fraud. I think First Direct needed to act immediately, not the 
next day as First Direct has suggested, in contacting the beneficiaries accounts to try and 
recover the funds shed lost. First Direct confirmed it didnt do this so it hasnt acted as I 
wouldve expected in this case.
But, when considering whether appropriate action on First Directs part wouldve resulted in 
the successful recovery of the funds, I have to consider the receiving banks actions too. 
This is because First Direct wouldve been relying on the receiving banks to respond to its 
requests. First Direct didnt contact the beneficiary banks until 11 February 2021  long after 
the scam was reported to it and it shouldve taken action. Weve independently contacted the 
receiving banks to find out when the money was removed from the accounts and whether, 
had First Direct acted immediately, this likely wouldve resulted in the return of the funds. 
In the case of one receiving bank, it responded the day First Direct contacted it and asked 
for further evidence relating to the scam, which First Direct provided the same day. So its 
clear it needed to investigate things before it was able to return the funds. This bank has 
sent us evidence that the money was moved from the account the same day it was credited, 
and given it always wouldve needed to investigate things before responding to First Direct, 
overall I think its unlikely the delay caused by First Direct prevented the return of any funds 
sent to this account.
The other receiving bank asked for more time to investigate the matter. It responded on 24 
February 2021 to confirm the funds couldnt be retrieved. Weve contacted this bank for 
more information about what mightve happened had the scam been reported immediately 
as it shouldve been. And the information its provided show the transactions that resulted in 
the funds leaving the account were all carried out before Mrs M reported the scam on 28 
January 2021. So the money was effectively already gone before First Direct couldve 
contacted it.
Overall, First Directs delay in contacting the receiving banks hasnt caused a loss in this 
case.Redress
As First Direct didnt provide Mrs M with effective warnings, under the CRM code, it needs to 
reimburse her for 50% of her loss.
As the money came from Mrs Ms current account and shes deprived of the use of the 
funds, simple interest should be added to this amount from 5 March 2021 (when First Direct 
concluded its investigation) until the date of settlement at a rate of 8%.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC Bank Plc to pay Mrs M the settlement outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman