DRN-1886898
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC treated him when his interest only 
mortgage matured.
What happened
Mr M had an interest-only mortgage with Barclays after taking out a loan in November 1991 
for £75,761.00 for 25 Years. Mr M told our investigator that the property was worth nearly 
£500,000.00. The term matured in November 2016. When the property was sold in October 
2019, the amount due to Barclays was about £88,000.00, Mr M sold the property and the 
mortgage was redeemed in October 2019. Mr M has suffered from a medical condition for a 
lengthy period and, as a result has been unable to work. Most, but not all, of the interest on 
Mr Ms mortgage payments was paid by the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP). Mr 
M had a history of arrears on his account and arrears charges were added, Barclays then 
did a remediation process in 2016, refunding those charges.
Because of his MS, Mr M had done some adaptions to the property including additional 
banisters, stairs and bath apparatus. Mr M felt that Barclays hadnt taken his personal 
circumstances into account and had put pressure on him to sell his property. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that Barclays 
had acted reasonably following the maturity of the term of his mortgage. Mr M disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a serious health issue which I am sorry to hear about. This has affected his ability 
to work and earn an income. In addition, I understand that the property was adapted in some 
measure to meet Mr Ms needs. The file discloses that Mr M has had a difficult relationship 
with Barclays. Mr M has been in arrears for some time and I believe that most of the difficulty 
in the relationship may have been caused by this. Barclays added arrears charges to the 
account, which were refunded after a remediation process. The file refers to a refund of 
£1,520 in early 2016. Mr M has been unhappy because he said that Barclays werent 
informing him in a timely manner of the shortfall in DWP payments on the account. 
This complaint relates to how Barclays dealt with Mr M when the account matured. Mr M had 
no repayment vehicle in place, other than sale of the house, and we would expect Barclays 
to look to assist Mr M in that situation to see what could be achievable. When the account 
matured in 2016, Barclays notes acknowledge Mr Ms disability, the resulting adaptations to 
his property and that his daughters were completing their A levels in a local school. In May 
2017 a housing charity became involved on Mr Ms behalf which made sense given the 
difficult relationship that Mr M had with Barclays. Discussions continued throughout the 
summer of 2017. I noted that Barclays ruled out a further interest only mortgage. Then, in 
the spring of 2017, the housing charity suggested a repayment mortgage based on 
payments of £587.64 per month over 23 years but this was refused by Barclays. I 
questioned Barclays and asked why this was and they said it was unsustainable although, 
on the face of it, the figures suggest it could be affordable. I note that Mr M told Barclays that 
the income/expenditure information he provided wasnt accurate, but he never provided 
updated information so its difficult to come to a conclusion as to what he could actually 
afford. 
Ive given some consideration to how Barclays dealt with the request for a further mortgage 
on the property by the housing charity. But the problem was that Mr M was living on benefits 
and had little spare income. If I look at his interest-only mortgage statements during the term 
of the mortgage, they show that the only payments being made were the DWP payments 
and the shortfall each month wasnt being made up by Mr M. Although Mr M complains of 
delays caused by Barclays not telling him about changes to DWP contributions, that simply 
doesnt explain why in the mortgage statements Ive seen over different periods of time, no 
payments were made by Mr M towards the shortfall. A reasonable explanation is that Mr M 
required all his income for his everyday needs and there was no spare income for the 
mortgage. 
So, if Mr M were to be offered a new mortgage, that situation wasnt going to change, and Mr 
M would be likely to fall into arrears again which would cut into the equity in his property and 
limit his available options.  Barclays would then likely look to recover those arrears and Mr M 
would fall into a further cycle of having to deal with Barclays about the arrears which he was 
clearly uncomfortable with. So, I cant see that being in his best interests. Ive also looked at 
whether it would be in Mr Ms best interests to extend the mortgage on an interest only 
basis. The problem with that is that Mr M, as he had no other repayment vehicle, would 
inevitably have to put the property on the market for sale at some time and look for another 
property. That may be more difficult in the future should his health deteriorate or the housing 
market fall.  I In those circumstances, I cant fairly say that Barclays was wrong to refuse a 
new mortgage. 
I then noted that in July 2018, Barclays raised with Mr M the possibility of equity release or 
downsizing and then these possibilities were raised again in August. These calls were 
difficult. Mr M was reluctant to look at equity release or downsizing and discussions about 
these didnt progress. Mr M was clearly suspicious of Barclays motivations and this is 
reflected in the notes of the calls. It does appear to me that Barclays was attempting to 
engage with Mr M and trying to open a discussion about ways that Mr M could manage to 
deal with his problem, but Mr M simply didnt want to look at those avenues. At the end of 
2018, Barclays considered that it had exhausted any solutions that might be available to Mr 
M and decide to look for a possession order. 
I note that in response in April 2019 Mr M said that he was selling the house and that it 
would be on the market within a month. In May Mr M called back to say that it was on the 
market but when asked by Barclays, Mr M wouldnt say how much the house was on the 
market for and wouldnt agree to send Barclays a letter authorising them to obtain 
information from his estate agent or solicitor. I would have expected Barclays to give Mr M a 
reasonable opportunity to sell the property but in return I would have expected Mr M to be 
open and frank with the lender about how the sale was proceeding. In its letter of 1 May 
2019, Barclays says that it would work with Mr M about the time required to sell the property 
and asked to be updated. But clearly the difficulties in communication between Mr M and 
Barclays continued although I cant say that this was Barclays fault.
This was clearly a difficult time for Mr M, and Im pleased that the equity in the property has 
allowed him to sell and move elsewhere although I see, in the pandemic, hes not been able 
to use his new property. As I said above, our expectation in this type of situation is that   Barclays would assist Mr M at looking at solutions to the problem of his interest-only 
mortgage coming to an end. But some of these might have left Mr M worse off and some, 
such as equity release and downsizing, Mr M was reluctant to consider. This mortgage 
matured in 2016 and my view is that Barclays engaged with Mr M throughout to try and 
assist him. For that reason, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman