DRN-1633438
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Canada Life Limited mis-sold her two annuities. Shes unhappy that it 
wont let her have her money as a lump-sum, which she needs as she is very unwell.
What happened
Mrs S has two annuities with Canada Life. The first she took in 2006, this came from a plan 
she had with an employer. She took her benefits on the open market option and chose 
Canada Life as her pension provider. Mrs S chose to take out a lifetime annuity which she 
chose to guarantee for 10 years. The annuity was setup to pay £787.32 a year.
In documentation that Mrs S signed at the time when agreeing to the annuity, it said 
Warning this contract has no cash in value at any time.
In 2013, Mrs S took out another annuity with Canada Life. This annuity was also setup on 
the open market option, this time coming from another personal pension provider. Mrs S 
chose to take out a lifetime annuity with Canada Life again. This was also guaranteed for 10 
years and the annuity payable was £342.47 a year.
Again, in the documentation there was a warning saying the policy had no cash-in value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I start, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mrs S health and financial problems, I 
can only imagine how hard this must be for her and her family.
Mrs S has clearly spent a lot of time and effort providing us with lots of information and 
points to consider as is her right. And Ive tried as much as possible to provide answers to 
the points shes raised. However, were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a 
free alternative to the courts. In deciding a fair outcome my role is to focus on what I think 
are the main issues, rather than commenting on every point made by both parties. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to Mrs S but reflects the remit of our service.
Having read Mrs S correspondence with us and Canada Life, I think she has become 
confused with a lot of the aspects of her pensions and the rules that apply to them. Pensions 
can be difficult to comprehend for a lay person and whilst I can understand the points Mrs S 
is making and where she is coming from, Im afraid she is mistaken in a lot of her 
understanding of events. Ill explain why below.
Mrs S has made numerous mentions of wanting her money back and Canada Life not 
giving her what is hers. And that it is being cruel considering her situation. As I said I can 
understand where Mrs S is coming from especially as she is in a desperate situation. But its 
my role to be impartial and I can only say that Canada Life should do something differently, if 
I think it has done something wrong or shouldve done more.
The savings Mrs S built up in the pension policies with her employer and Abbey Life were 
used to buy the annuities with Canada Life and converted into the payments she receives 
now. This began a separate contract from that of the pension. These contracts were to pay 
the annuities for the rest of her life.
This means, in effect, that Mrs S sold her pension savings to Canada Life in exchange for an 
income for life. So, this means there is no money in Mrs S name any longer, she used that 
to buy the annuities. So I dont agree that Canada Life is withholding Mrs S money from her. 
She used that money to buy her annuities that pay her £787 and £342 per year respectively.
I can also see the documentation she received at the time made it clear that there would be 
no cash in value at any time. And that these annuities would be paid for life. Mrs S says that 
this wasnt given to her and hidden from her but I dont think this is plausible. 
The warnings are on the forms that she signed to take out the annuities in more than one 
place and the example shown below was right next to her signature on the forms. These 
forms wouldve been part of the retirement pack that included all the relevant key 
information.
 
Mrs S has made the point that Canada Life didnt provide her with any advice or face-to-face 
meetings when it sold her the annuity in 2013. However, Canada Life did not sell Mrs S the 
annuity, she chose to take out an annuity with Canada Life on the open-market option. 
Canada Life wasnt able to make personal recommendations or meet her face to face. Its 
role was just to provide information and administer her instructions. Which is what it did do.
Mrs S says that an individual at Canada Life, initials M.A, who she had emailed a number of 
times, sold her the annuity in 2013. I disagree, Mrs S was asking questions about the quotes 
she received and he answered them in his capacity as an administrator at Canada Life. He 
didnt provide Mrs S with personal advice about her choices. Unfortunately, I think its likely 
that instead Mrs S didnt understand the choices she was making but I cant hold Canada 
Life or anyone else responsible for that. M.A did his best to answer the questions that he 
could and referred her back to her pension provider at the time. He also made her aware 
that she should consider seeking financial advice as he couldnt provide her with advice.
Mrs S says Canada Life didnt take into account her medical conditions at the time of the 
second sale. When Mrs S emailed M.A about her quotes she mentioned unspecified illness 
and he was included in an email to her MP and the Daily Mail where she mentioned illness 
and eyesight problems. But when she asked for quotations and later when selecting her 
annuity, she didnt ask for or select an enhanced annuity.
As she chose not to take financial advice it was Mrs S responsibility to make her own 
choices as to what she wanted. If Mrs S wanted her medical conditions to be considered, 
she wouldve needed to select an enhanced annuity with Canada Life but instead she chose 
to take a Lifetime Annuity as shown below. 
 
I accept that Mrs S was likely confused as to what to select, but Im afraid this isnt 
something I can hold Canada Life responsible for. If Mrs S hadnt understood her options or 
wasnt sure what the best choice to make was, she wouldve needed to seek financial advice 
or asked for clarification. Before taking out her annuity Canada Life wrote to her and sent her 
a retirement pack. In this pack it said:
On retirement, you have the option to choose which provider you take an annuity with. It is 
very important to make the right decision, as you cannot change your mind at a later date. 
You can of course discuss your retirement options with a Professional Adviser If you do not 
have an adviser, you can obtain details of one in your area by visiting the following website 
www unbiased co uk
So I cant say that Canada Life has done anything wrong here as it did give Mrs S all the 
information required to make her choices. It set up her annuities in line with the instructions 
she gave in its forms.
Moving on, Mrs S in the email referred to above sent to her MP and the Daily Mail, seemed 
to understand at the time that she couldnt take her pension all as a lump sum. She says in 
this email she wouldve preferred to put the money towards a property for her children.
Mrs S says Canada Life said at the time, it would allow her to cash in her annuities in the 
future. 
Mrs S argues that the pension was taken out in 2013 on the basis of what she wanted it to 
do in the future but I dont think Canada Life agreed to that. It agreed to pay her what was 
set out on the forms which she signed to set up the annuity contract. Canada Life told her at 
the time her policy couldnt be cashed in at a later date. Ive seen no evidence that prior to 
taking out her annuity, Canada Life agreed that in the future she could cash it in.
Calls between Mrs S and Canada Life occurred in later years regarding the potential change 
in government legislation regarding annuities in payment. Mrs S feels that this was 
ambiguous as the call-hander didnt say she wouldnt be able to use this legislation. 
However, as she is aware, unfortunately the government plans didnt go ahead regarding 
cashing in annuities already in payment. And by this point Mrs S had already taken out her 
annuities, so regardless of what she was told in these calls, it hasnt changed her position.
When Mrs S took out her annuities with Canada Life she didnt have the option to take the 
pension benefits as a lump sum. Due to the pension legislation at the time, her options were 
restricted to taking the funds as an annuity. So I dont think Canada Life did anything wrong 
here. It couldnt pay her the pension as a lump sum.
As the planned legislation around cashing in annuities didnt proceed, the rules generally 
dont allow a customers to cash in an annuity and take a lump sum payment. However, in 
instances where the value of that annuity is less than £10,000, it can be cashed in but only if 
the provider chooses to offer this. So, I can understand why Mrs S would want to do this 
particularly given her health and this being the option shed always wanted from the outset.
However, Canada Life says that it has chosen not to offer this option to its customers. I know 
that Mrs S says other providers wouldve allowed her to do so. But this doesnt reflect what 
weve seen and what the other providers have told us. The majority of providers have 
chosen not to offer this option to their customers. On the occasions it has been offered, a 
commercial decision has been taken for a group of customers or a decision made for an 
individual with a particular set of circumstances.
As the legislation is only enabling, i.e Canada Life has a choice, I cant say its wrong not to 
offer this to all its customers. However, I have considered Mrs S particular circumstances 
and whether Canada Life has been unfair or unreasonable in its stance that they wont allow 
her to cash in the annuities.
As I explained previously, Mrs S plans with Canada Life no longer have a value, this was 
used to buy the two annuities. When Mrs S took out her annuities, Canada Life made its 
offer based on her circumstances, the wider population and the financial markets at the time. 
Annuities, like the basis of all insurance, work on the principle that in each individual contract 
the insurer takes the risk that the customer could be better off and vice versa. But this 
calculation is made within the context of a wider population of customers. This was all taken 
into account when Canada Life offered Mrs S her annuity values. And this was something 
Mrs S accepted when she agreed to the annuity quotes. It was explained then that the policy 
would have no cash in value and would be paid for life. 
Any cash-in value now would be based on what it would cost to buy Mrs S annuity today. 
But instead relating to her circumstances now and using the same wider considerations 
explained above but at todays date. It wouldnt be simply a calculation of how much Mrs S 
has been paid compared to the pension pot value before she took out the annuities. That pot 
value ceased to exist the day she agreed to convert it into annuity payments.
Ive thought carefully about whether Canada Life is being unfair and unreasonable in not 
offering a cash-in value for Mrs S policy. And having done so I dont think it has to do 
anything to put things right. I understand that Mrs S will be very unhappy with this. But Mrs 
S circumstances and the other valuation factors have altered since the time the annuity was 
taken out. 
I think to calculate this now and put a value to Mrs S policy would put Canada Life in an 
unfair and potentially difficult position. As the risk factors involved have fundamentally 
changed.  If they were to do so, I think its quite possible the sum calculated might be a lot 
less than Mrs S would expect and an amount she might find insulting.
Ultimately Canada Life did tell Mrs S when she took out the annuity it couldnt be cashed in 
and legislation states it doesnt have to offer this. Whilst I understand the reasons Mrs S 
would like a lump sum now, because of her ill health any sum calculated would likely be low 
and not as beneficial as she would hope. 
Furthermore, the payments she is receiving yearly, are not so small that she receives no 
benefit from them, they are both of some material value and together amount to over a 
£1,000 a year. Therefore, I dont think Canada Life is being unreasonable in sticking to its 
stance that it will honour the agreement both parties agreed to when the annuities were 
taken out.
Finally, Mrs S also raised a couple of other points that I think might be helpful to discuss. Mrs 
S has asked why Canada Life didnt include a second annuitant, her son, on her policy as 
she asked for. Im not sure that this actually wouldve been possible but in any event Canada 
Life has explained that the quote Mrs S attached to select the annuity was one without her 
son added.Had it been possible to add her son as a second annuitant this would have hugely reduced 
the value of the annuity payments. So, Mrs S wouldnt have chosen this option as her 
annuity wouldve been a lot less than what she is paid now. Mrs S did add her son as a 
beneficiary to receive any money within her 10 year guaranteed period. But this is not the 
same as a second annuitant.
Mrs S also questioned why Canada Life had said her policy had a 10 year guarantee and 
then later said it didnt, Mrs S seems to think it had been removed. The guarantee was not 
removed, the annuities both included a 10 year guarantee. This meant that if Mrs S died 
within ten years of taking out the annuity, it would continue to be paid in full to her selected 
beneficiary (her son). Canada Life did not remove this. What Mrs S refers to is a letter from 
Canada Life before she took out her annuity which was informing her the guarantee period 
had expired. However, this guarantee was something completely different, and referred to 
how long the quotation was guaranteed for, once the guaranteed period finished the 
quotation would have to be drawn up again. 
I know that Mrs S will be very disappointed with my decision but I dont think there are any 
grounds to say that Canada Life need to do more, or have acted unfairly. Im sorry to hear of 
the difficulties Mrs S and her family are facing and I can understand why shed want to cash 
in her annuity. But even if Canada Life agreed, Im not sure that the sums paid would be 
more beneficial than the annuity payments of over £1,000 a year she is already receiving.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs S complaint against Canada Life Limited and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman