DRN-4379456
The complaint
Ms F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the full 
amount of money she lost after she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Ms F is being represented by a third party on this complaint. Any reference I make to Ms F 
also includes that of her representative. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Ms F complains that from September 2022 she made three payments to what she thought 
was a legitimate cryptocurrency trading company from her Halifax account.
20/09/2022 £20,000 Faster payment 
29/09/2022 £25,000 Faster payment 
04/10/2022 £3,000 Faster payment 
Total £48,000  
Ms F says she spotted an advertisement on a social media platform advertising a 
cryptocurrency investment opportunity. Ms F completed an online enquiry form, and she was 
then contacted by someone from the company.
After completing some Identification checks, Ms F sent three payments to the scammer with 
the understanding that she was investing in cryptocurrency. When Ms F couldnt withdraw 
any money from the cryptocurrency account, she realised she had been scammed and 
logged a claim with Halifax. 
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong by allowing the payments to go through, as it 
said it called Ms F on each of the payments to warn her of potential scams and she still 
wanted to make the payments. So, Ms F brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator found Halifax had taken steps to warn Ms F of the potential scam, but Ms F 
ignored the warnings. 
Ms F didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Prevention
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Im satisfied that although Ms F didnt intend for her money to go to a fraudster, she did 
authorise the payments. I understand she wouldnt have authorised the payments if she had 
known this was a scam, but Halifax is expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises or instructs it to make, and that is what it did. The Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), state that payments are authorised if the payer consented to them and, in this case, 
Im satisfied Ms F consented to the payments as at the time, she believed she was making 
payments for the purposes of a legitimate investment.
However, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payments.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Our service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry practice 
at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Its clear the payments looked unusual for the previous spending on Ms Fs account, as 
Halifax flagged them for additional checks. Having listened to the calls and read the transcripts from the calls Ms F had with the 
advisors from Halifax, Im satisfied the advisors asked an adequate number of questions to 
attempt to unearth any financial harm Ms F was subjected to. Im also satisfied with the type 
of questions asked and that following the responses Ms F gave, there was no requirement to 
ask Ms F to visit a branch for further enquiries or stop the payments completely.
On the two calls, as well as some general questions about the payments, the Halifax advisor 
Advised that they had seen similar payments in other circumstances that turned out 
to be scams.
Told Ms F that one of the most common scams is around investments and crypto 
currency.
Asked Ms F if she was being aided by another individual to make the payments.
Asked Ms F if shed been asked to lie.
Advised Ms F to go away for 24 hours and complete more research whilst making 
sure she wanted to make the payments. 
Ms F then called back and said she was happy for the payments to be sent; Ms F also said 
shed been considering moving the money for three months and had done all the necessary 
checks, including checking the company was registered. 
The representative on this case has suggested that it shouldve been obvious to the advisors 
Ms F spoke to that she was vulnerable. Having listened to the calls, Im not convinced that 
any of the responses Ms F gave wouldve highlighted any potential vulnerabilitys to the 
advisors. Ms F spoke confidently and with certainty that she had done enough research and 
wanted to make the payments. 
On both calls, Ms F also said that her best friend had been successful with crypto
investments and that she felt moving her money into this type of investment would get a
better return for her.
Having considered the above, Im satisfied Halifax asked enough questions and highlighted 
the risks to Ms F before processing the payment. Even after blocking the payment for 24 
hours, Ms F still wanted to proceed. I dont feel Halifax couldve reasonably done anything 
more here to prevent Ms F from sending the money to the scammer.
Its worth noting that Ms F also mentioned leaving money in her wallet instead of sending it 
on to invest, to get better returns from the interest it gave. This was something she told the 
advisor and had she done this, the money wouldnt have been sent on to the scammer. So, 
Im not convinced Halifax could have done anything more to prevent these payments. 
Recovery
Ive also looked at whether Halifax took the steps it should have once Ms F contacted them 
to dispute the payments.
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Halifax to have done anything 
further until Ms F told Halifax that she had been scammed. 
As the money was sent to a wallet in Ms Fs name and then sent to the scammer before Ms 
F reported it, Halifax wouldnt have been able recover any of the funds. 
I realise this means Ms F is out of pocket. Im really sorry shes lost this money. However, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can reasonably uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman