DRN-4368937
The complaint
Mr S and Miss D complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
declined a claim for storm damage to their property and cancelled their buildings insurance 
policy due to fraud.
Ill refer to Miss D in my decision for ease. 
What happened
In January 2023 Miss D noticed some damp staining on a chimney breast in her home. She 
thought this mustve resulted from a recent storm and made a claim to Advantage. Damage 
was also caused to Miss Ds front porch. She initially said this had happened during the 
same storm. But later advised it had happened a week earlier. Miss D says she made a 
mistake when communicating this information. 
Miss D says the communication from Advantage was poor. She didnt receive a call back as 
requested. An inspection took place at her property in March 2023. She was subsequently 
told the damage to the roof wasnt covered under her policy, as it was due to a gradual 
cause. The porch had been replaced by the time of the inspection. Advantage told Miss D 
there was no proof of a valid claim as a result. 
Advantage subsequently advised it was cancelling Miss Ds policy for fraud. This is because 
she told it the porch and water ingress via the chimney took place at the same time. 
However, the evidence showed she had bought a replacement porch the week before this 
happened.
Miss D complained to Advantage. It acknowledged poor communication on its part and 
offered £30 compensation. It offered a further £50 in a subsequent response due to a lack of 
explanation for its decline decision. However, it didnt change its decision to decline the 
claim or its decision to cancel the policy. Miss D thought this was unfair and referred the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Ds complaint. She says Advantage was told the porch 
was damaged at the same time the internal water ingress occurred. But this was because 
Miss D had misremembered. Our investigator acknowledged Miss Ds reference to suffering 
from mental health issues and confusion, by way of an explanation. She says this was 
disclosed to Advantage prior to it cancelling her policy. 
Based on this evidence our investigator didnt think Miss D had made a fraudulent claim. But 
rather shed become confused about when the porch was damaged. 
Based on Advantages inspection, our investigator didnt think any of the damage claimed for 
was covered under its policy terms. But she didnt think it had treated Miss D fairly in 
cancelling her policy. She says it should remove any record of the cancellation relating to 
fraud and waive the cancellation fee. In addition, our investigator says Advantage should pay 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss D. This was on top of 
the payment it had offered.   
Advantage didnt accept this outcome. It says Miss D knew shed ordered a replacement 
porch a week before making her claim. It says she acknowledged the porch damage had 
occurred a week earlier in the email she sent in April 2023. It says Miss D could potentially 
have benefitted from this by only paying one policy excess instead of two. And by linking this 
damage to the storm claim, when it was already present. As it disagreed with our 
investigators view Advantage asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint in part. Let me explain.
The records provided by Advantage show the damage caused by water ingress via the 
chimney was reported by Miss D on 12 January 2023. The business says there was no 
mention of a damaged porch. 
In her email to Advantage on 21 April 2023 Miss D says:
To put the record straight (purely for the ombudsman as we expect nothing from your firm
except whatever is in your best interest), the porch was noticed around a week before the
chimney and [Mr S] reached out for quotes to get the work done outside of using our 
insurance to save our premiums going up. After noticing the damp marks on the chimney [Mr 
S] asked me to call [Advantage] to query if this would be covered on our insurance, which I 
did and asked for documents. We then noticed that the porch and the place above our door 
was becoming more damaged and thats why it was included in the claim as it was apparent 
from him that two lots of water damage, at opposite sides of the house, must have been 
because of the same storm event, when you guys are claiming it's bad maintenance and a 
coincidence.
Miss D says the porch damage was noticed first - prior to the chimney damage. However, 
she told Advantage the damage occurred during the same storm. I asked Advantage for call 
recordings from when the claim was first made, and from 19 April 2023 when the 
circumstances of the porch damage were discussed. It provided a call from 12 January. This 
was between Miss D and her insurance broker. 
In the call Miss D explains that she had noticed damp marks on the chimney breast in her 
bedroom. She didnt know what the process was to make a claim, and says shed 
experienced difficulty finding information online regarding her policy. The agent she spoke to 
says Advantage can be difficult to get hold of. He says he will contact the business on Miss 
Ds behalf and arrange for it to call her. Miss D agrees to this and thanks the agent. The call 
then ends.  
Advantage hasnt provided the call recording when it rang Miss D back about her claim. It 
hasnt provided the call recording from 19 April 2023 either. In its response it says it has 
attached the call it was able to find. Presumably the other calls arent available to it. This is 
disappointing. It wouldve been helpful to listen to these calls to get a clearer understanding 
of what was discussed. 
Miss D says she told the surveyor about the damage to the porch when he inspected her 
property in March 2023. It was after this time that Advantage queried when the damage had 
occurred. Miss D then provided the order information for her new porch canopy which was dated 5 January. This was a week prior to the date she made a claim for the chimney 
damage.
I think its reasonable that Advantage had concerns about the information Miss D provided 
about her claim. She didnt mention the porch damage initially. She then asked for the porch 
to be included in the same storm claim as the chimney damage. But the evidence shows 
Miss D was aware of the damaged porch around a week prior to making the chimney claim. 
The implication being it wasnt the same storm event that caused the damage. 
In her email to Advantage in April 2023 and in a further email dated in early May, Miss D 
says there were several storms throughout December 2022 and January 2023. She says her 
policy terms dont require the damage she is claiming to be caused by one storm event. She 
says misremembering isnt a crime, and she was overwhelmed at the time this all happened. 
In her April 2023 email, Miss D explains that she suffers from mental health issues and 
confusion. I note her comment that she remembers the storms and the damage occurring in 
early January. In her later email in May, Miss D says that when she spoke to a male agent 
from Advantage, he told her, clump it into the same claim as it happened [sic] the same 
time. I have no reason to disbelieve Miss Ds recollection of what Advantages agent told 
her. Albeit I havent been provided with a record of this call. 
All insurers expect the information a customer provides to be accurate. I think its clear the 
date Miss D gave for the porch damage wasnt accurate. But I also acknowledge what she 
says about misremembering as opposed to deliberately providing false information. Ive 
looked at Miss Ds policy terms to see how Advantage defines fraud. The terms say:
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. If you, or anyone acting for you:
 Knowingly provide information to us that is not true
 Deliberately mislead your insurer or us in any way in order to get Insurance from us,
obtain more favourable terms or reduce your premium, or gain an improper advantage
from a claim
 Make a claim under the policy knowing it to be false or fraudulently exaggerated in any
respect
 Submit a document in support of a policy or claim knowing the document to be forged or
false in any respect
 Make a claim for any loss or damage caused by your willful act or with your knowledge.
Then, depending on circumstances:
 Your insurer may be entitled to refuse to pay the claim to which the alleged fraud or
falsehood relates. They may also be entitled to cancel or avoid the policy without
refunding your premium. 
The terms make clear that Miss D must not knowingly provide untrue information, or 
deliberately mislead in order to gain an improper advantage from a claim. Ive thought about 
what this means with respect to Advantage cancelling her policy.   
Advantage suggests that Miss D could look to gain an advantage by avoiding paying two 
excess fees, by combining the porch damage with the chimney claim. But Im not persuaded 
by this evidence, and in these circumstances, that Miss D was trying to do this. 
The claim wasnt handled well by Advantage. Miss D wasnt called back as requested, and 
she had difficulty accessing documents via her online account due to an issue with 
Advantages systems. Miss D refers to continuously chasing to try and get the damage assessed, which took around seven weeks. She was also worried about the additional 
damage that could be caused which is why she had the porch repairs completed. I think the 
poor handling of this claim likely contributed to Miss Ds confusion.  
Miss D says she hadnt made a claim before and isnt knowledgeable about how this works. 
Based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that Advantage has done enough to 
demonstrate Miss D deliberately provided inaccurate information when making a claim about 
her porch. Im more persuaded that this was a genuine mistake when reporting the damage. 
Im also mindful of the contributing factor Miss Ds mental health issue may have had here.
For Advantage to fairly cancel Miss Ds policy for reasons of fraud, I need to be persuaded 
that its more likely than not that she committed or intended to commit fraud. For the reasons 
discussed here Im not persuaded that she did. So, I dont think Advantage treated her fairly 
when cancelling her policy for this reason. To put this right it should remove all record of the 
fraud cancellation.
Claim
As our investigator explained, we consider three questions when assessing whether an 
insurer behaved fairly with respect to a storm claim. These are:
1) Were there storm conditions around the time the claim was raised?
2) Is the damage consistent with damage a storm could cause?
3) Was the storm the underlying cause of the damage?
Advantage says it checked the weather data between 11 and 12 January 2023. It found no 
evidence of storm conditions. It refers to its policy terms that define the following criteria for 
storm conditions:
A period of violent weather defined as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, 
equivalent to storm force 10 on the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale), or torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cm) in 24 
hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Ive checked the weather data from a weather station close to Miss Ds home around the 
time she says the storm conditions occurred. I cant see evidence of storm conditions on or 
around 12 January 2023. So, the answer to question one is no. Miss D refers to several 
storms that occurred during the winter. Its not clear when the storms she mentioned took 
place, or if they qualify as storm force. But for completeness Ive considered whether the 
other two questions could apply assuming another storm was responsible for the damage 
claimed.   
Rainwater ingress is something that is consistent with damage a storm can cause. So, I 
accept that the answer to question two is yes. For question three I need to be satisfied that 
the storm was the underlying or main cause of the damage. But I dont think it was here. 
Advantages surveyor reported the following:
..there was no storm damage visible to roof area, no missing tiles or slipped tiles. Chimney 
is of age and pointing is missing between bricks, Chimney has discoloured due to Moss
Growth. When inside the attic we could water stains on breast wall which are of age and not 
from a one off event, Please be advised we believe this to be a maintenance issue on the 
chimney Breast itself. In regard to the porch seeing, as this was replaced this prior to the 
visit, we cannot comment. 
      Miss D had replaced the damaged porch, so it wasnt possible for Advantage to assess 
whether this was covered under its policy. I think its fair that it declined cover for this reason. 
The internal damp was thought to be the result of a gradual cause. Under the section entitled 
Part 1 - Useful Information Miss Ds policy terms say:
Your policy doesnt cover claims arising just from wear and tear or gradual causes. Its your 
responsibility to keep your buildings and contents in a good condition.
  
Based on this evidence I dont think it was unreasonable for Advantage rely on its policy 
terms to decline Miss Ds claim for the reason it gave.
Finally, Ive thought about the impact the poor standard of service had on Miss D. There 
were delays and a lack of communication. Advantage acknowledges this in its complaint 
responses. It offered £80 in total to compensate for this. But in these circumstances I think a 
higher payment is justified. 
I can understand why Advantage was concerned about discrepancies with the information 
Miss D provided. But I dont think its shown that its decision to cancel her policy was fair. 
This has been distressing for Miss D. The standard of communication and claim handling 
could also have been better. Because of this I think Advantage should pay a further £100 
compensation on top of the £80 it originally offered. 
Advantage confirms it didnt charge a cancellation fee and a premium refund was provided. It 
also says it hasnt recorded the circumstances of its fraud cancellation on any external 
databases. However, it should ensure its own records are updated to remove any reference 
to this and confirm this in writing. If Miss D has paid higher insurance premiums as a result 
of declaring the fraud cancellation, she can speak to her insurers to arrange any refund that 
might be due. 
In summary I dont think Advantage treated Miss D fairly when cancelled her policy on the 
grounds of fraud. It should now amend its records accordingly. It should also pay Miss D 
£100 in addition to the £80 compensation it originally offered. But I dont think it treated Miss 
D unfairly when declining to cover her claim for the reasons it gave.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Mr S and Miss D £100 compensation in addition to the £80 it offered for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused; and 
write to Mr S and Miss D to confirm all record of the fraud cancellation has been 
removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman