DRN-1767245
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Lively Loans, is holding 
her liable for a loan she says she didnt take out.
What happened
Mrs P was abroad from 2 February 2019 to 17 February 2019. On 1 February, her bank sent 
her a new debit card because the one she had was due to expire.
Mrs Ps new debit card details were registered to three accounts with two gambling websites 
on 7 and 28 February. Payments were made to the gambling websites on 12 February, 5 
and 12 March. 
On 7 March, Likely Loans received an application in Mrs Ps name for a loan for £2,000. It 
paid the funds directly into Mrs Ps account on 8 March. The money was used to fund the 
payments to the gambling websites. 
Mrs P found out about the loan and betting transactions when she checked her statement. 
She complained to her bank, believing it would also investigate the loan. She raised a fraud 
complaint directly with Likely Loans on 14 May, after receiving a Notice of Arrears.  
Mrs P said she didnt apply for the loan and knew nothing about it. She also said she didnt 
have an account with the gambling websites and didnt make the disputed payments. 
She said she had given a spare set of keys to her neighbours for use in an emergency in 
September 2018. She said no-one would have been in her house while she was abroad 
because her husband worked from 6.30am to 8.30pm and her children were staying with an 
aunt. She said she recognised the mobile phone number, which Likely Loans had. It was her 
neighbours number. She believes the neighbours entered her house, while it was empty, 
and stole the replacement debit card and personal details. 
She asked Likely Loans to stop chasing her for the repayments and to release her from any 
liability.
Likely Loans investigated her complaint but didnt uphold it because neither the police nor 
her bank had contacted it to confirm that she had been the victim of a fraud. It also said she 
hadnt provided the documents which it had requested.
As Mrs P wasnt happy with Likely Loans decision, she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it. He was persuaded this 
was a fraudulent loan application  most likely made by the neighbours. He recommended 
that Likely Loans:
- write off the loan
- remove any adverse information on Mrs P's credit file.
Likely Loans disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said Mrs P wasnt a credible witness 
because: 
she said she had given the keys to a builder. Then she said she had given the keys 
to her neighbours.
She told her bank she didnt know the third parties on the betting accounts. She later 
said she did know them.
The third parties were not her neighbours because they lived on a different street. 
It isnt usual practice to leave house keys with strangers.
There was no need to leave keys with neighbours because her husband was still 
going home.
She didnt pursue a police investigation.
Likely Loans concluded that the third parties must have been family members because they 
shared the same surname. Therefore, it was more likely than not that she allowed them to 
use her account and to take out the loan. 
Likely Loans have asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Mrs P and Likely Loans have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure 
both that Ive read the file, including their comments.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator and for much the same reasons. Im persuaded by the evidence that one or 
more third parties applied for the loan fraudulently in Mrs Ps name.
To reach my decision, Ive considered:
 the application for the loan
 the account the loan monies were paid into
 how the funds were used.
Ive also taken into account Mrs Ps version of events.
Firstly, Ive looked at the evidence of the original application made in Mrs Ps name. The 
application has her name, date of birth, postal address and employment details. However, 
the email address and mobile number are different. They are not Mrs Ps contact details. 
The gambling websites had the same number in three accounts. Those accounts werent in 
Mrs Ps name.  
This meant that Mrs P didnt receive the email and text messages confirming that the loan 
had been approved which is why she didnt respond at the time. This benefited the third 
parties because the risk of being caught early was reduced. And I cant see a reason why 
Mrs P would make an application but change these details.
On 7 March, someone, who said she was Mrs P, called Likely Loans to say she hadnt 
received the funds. Ive listened to that call. Ive also listened to a call with Mrs P. The voices 
are different. Im not convinced that the caller on 7 March was Mrs P.   The notes from Lively Loans also record that the application caller didnt match Mrs P. So, Im satisfied that the 
caller wasnt Mrs P.
Secondly, I can see that the loan was paid into Mrs Ps bank account. So, whoever made 
this application knew they could easily get the money from her account. On the face of it, 
that would be Mrs P. However, the evidence from her bank shows that attempts were made 
to use her card in the UK while she was abroad. Ive seen her travel documents. These 
confirm she was abroad at the time. So, it wasnt her using the card.  There were 
unsuccessful attempts at ATMs because the third party didnt know the PIN. But they didnt 
need the PIN for the betting transactions. All they needed was the card number and security 
number. It was easier to use the card for internet transactions. And this meant they could get 
access to the funds in her account.
The funds were spent on seven online betting transactions across three accounts. As Ive 
already mentioned, these accounts were not opened in Mrs Ps name. The postal address 
on the three accounts was the same. It wasnt her address. The mobile phone number 
matched the number on the loan application. It wasnt Mrs Ps number.
Also, the loan application and six of the betting transactions were made from the same IP 
address. There is no evidence linking Mrs P to that IP address.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that one or more third parties applied for the loan in 
Mrs Ps name and spent the funds. And there isnt really any dispute that this happened. 
Likely Loans position is that Mrs P colluded with the third parties because she knew them, 
and they had her card and personal details. 
Mrs P admits she knew them.  She says they are neighbours and the people whom she 
trusted with her house keys. She has explained how they might gain access to her home 
and personal details. But this isnt proof of fraud by her. And its a giant leap to say this 
means she colluded with them in a fraudulent activity. 
Ive seen her bank account transactions for January 2019 to May 2019. There are no 
gambling transactions. Most transactions are for general shopping. There are a couple of 
high value purchases. The loan and disputed transactions appear unusual and out of 
character for the account. I find it hard to believe that she would allow neighbours to use her 
account for betting, much less apply for a loan.
In fact, I was surprised by some of the assumptions made by Likely Loans. I consider that 
many people think of people who live in their area as neighbours. A neighbour doesnt have 
to be an immediate neighbour. 
Also, I dont think its uncommon to give a trusted neighbour a spare set of keys. It might be 
unwise, but this isnt proof of fraud or collusion. 
I was also astonished by the assumption that because Mrs P and the neighbours shared the 
same surname (a non-English name) and lived close by, they were family members, and this 
meant she consented to the loan. In my opinion, this is a completely unreasonable assertion. 
I note that the investigator has shared data with Likely Loans on how many people share this 
surname.
Lastly, Mrs P is under no compulsion to report the matter to the police. I can see it shows 
good faith but its no bar to a settlement. As it is, she did report the fraud to the police. 
However, its not her responsibility or duty to pursue the investigation. That is a matter for 
the police. So, I dont think its fair for Likely Loans to say it wont cancel loan because the police didnt contact it. And the same arguments apply to her bank not contacting Likely 
Loans.
In summary, I believe theres compelling evidence that one or more third parties made a 
fraudulent loan application in Mrs Ps name. I dont consider theres evidence showing that 
Mrs P knew about the loan or consented to it. And Ive seen no evidence that she benefited 
from the money. Therefore, it isnt fair and reasonable to ask her to repay it. I will now be 
instructing Likely Loans to put things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and I am instructing Oakbrook Finance 
Limited, trading as Lively Loans to: - 
stop pursuing Mrs P for this loan which she didnt apply for
remove any data about this loan from Mrs Ps credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman