DRN-3460785
The complaint
Mr W owns a limited company (G) and on their behalf complains that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) have unfairly refused to release the security they hold against one of its properties. 
What happened
Mr W and his wife own 5 properties, one being their own home and two of which he runs 
through a property investment company G. In 2011 G took a loan (the loan) with Lloyds for 
£135,000 for the purchase and refurbishment of a property I shall refer to as S Rd. As S Rd 
was worth less than the amount G were borrowing, G agreed Lloyds could take security over 
another property it owned in W Street, until the loan to value (LTV) ratio on S Rd improved. 
G and Lloyds never settled or agreed on what that LTV ratio was to be.  
In 2021 G asked if the security over W St could be released as the equity in S Rd was now 
about three times the amount owed under the loan. Lloyds declined, explaining that the 
rental income from S Rd was less than the loan payments. G thought Lloyds were using new 
criteria which wasnt agreed when the loan was taken out and have, through Mr W, said that 
if that had been explained at the time, it wouldnt have agreed to the loan. 
G argues that when the money was borrowed it was done so on the basis of Lloyds risk 
being measured by the LTV ratio, which if it improved would lead to the release of the 
security. As the LTV is now better than 25% G feel the security should be released in 
accordance with their agreement. 
Mr W also argues that he structured Gs loan around his personal income tax situation 
meaning that the loan repayments were always higher than the rental income. He says he 
hasnt ever missed a payment on the loan or fallen into difficulty with it, his and his wifes 
income is in excess of £130,000 a year, and they have four rental properties with small 
mortgages and no mortgage on their own home. All of that Mr W argues, means that he can 
comfortably afford all the mortgages even if there were no tenants.
Mr W wanted to move to a new house and said he couldnt because his refinancing plans 
required Lloyds to release the first charge they have on W St. Lloyds looked at Gs request 
and said they werent in a position to discharge the security on W St because the remaining 
security would not be sufficient to support the remaining borrowing.
G were unhappy with Lloyds final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. G didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Put simply, Mr W argues that Lloyds are now applying a risk profiling which didnt exist when 
he agreed to Lloyds having a first charge over W St. Further that he is easily able to service 
the loan even if he had no tenants in any of his properties, given his level of income and 
sound financial footing. I think as a preliminary point it should be highlighted that it is G and 
not Mr G who gave security over W St. That is important because it is Gs responsibility to 
service the loan and not Mr Gs, even though he owns G.
There is no record of what was agreed when G took out the loan, although it seems Lloyds 
havent specifically challenged the principle that it said it would review the security over W St 
when the LTV changed to an acceptable level for them. And that is the crux of this complaint 
 whether Lloyds have fairly reviewed Gs request to discharge the security.   
Lloyds referred the request to their appropriate team who considered the level of borrowing 
against the security they held and also the serviceability of the loan. Lloyds have their own 
Business Banking Credit Risk Policy (the policy) and when they applied that, concluded that 
the remaining security was insufficient to support the remaining borrowing. 
I do appreciate that Mr W takes a more direct view of this focussing on the fact that he feels 
the loan is very affordable for him, and his history of not ever defaulting, but the assessment 
of risk is much more complicated than that and involves deeper consideration in accordance 
with the policy. And, it is important to understand that Lloyds have a policy partly to ensure 
consistency and fairness in their decision making for all its customers.
It is not my role to carry out an assessment of risk in substitution for Lloyds own assessment, 
rather it is to ensure that Lloyds have treated G fairly in its request to discharge the security. 
Lloyds policy is detailed, and I can see from Lloyds notes that it did consider Gs request 
and concluded, in line with that policy, that the request should be declined. Whilst Mr W may 
disagree with that decision it does not mean that Lloyds are acting unfairly. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments that Lloyds appear to be changing the rules 
regarding risk, but as I have mentioned above, there was no specific agreement as to what 
the criteria was for the security to be discharged, only that Lloyds would review matters 
when the LTV improved. And this it did. I accept that Lloyds risk profiling is different to when 
the loan was taken out, but there was never an agreement that Lloyds would only use the 
risk profiling from that time. I agree that any assessment of risk must take into account the 
current economic conditions and Lloyds are right to update or change their risk profiling from 
time to time as circumstances demand. 
So, although G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. They were asked to review the security and did so applying 
the principles within their policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman