DRN-3827143
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as 
Abacus Associates Financial Services (Tavistock) to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
thinks the advice may have been unsuitable for him and says it caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were 
informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr D wasnt sure what was best for him, so he got in touch with a representative of 
Tavistock. In November 2017, Tavistock gathered information about Mr Ds circumstances 
and objectives. It recorded that Mr D was almost 43, married with two children (one 
dependent). That Mr and Mrs D owned their own home, which was subject to a mortgage of 
£53,000 ending in 2029. And between them they had credit card and loan debt of around 
£14,000. It recorded that Mr and Mrs Ds monthly income covered their expenditure and 
Mr D had personal savings of around £2,000. Tavistock noted Mr D had joined his 
employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme; Mr D and his employer were 
contributing a total of around £7,000 per year. Mrs D was recorded as having her own DB 
pension, projected to provide around £10,400 per year at her normal retirement age of 67.
Tavistock noted Mr and Mrs D hoped to retire early but that they realised they may need to 
continue working until their state pension ages if retiring earlier wasnt affordable. Tavistock 
recorded that Mr D wanted flexibility in how he took his pension and was interested in the 
lump-sum death benefits a transfer offered. It noted he didnt want his DB scheme pension 
to cease on Mrs Ds death and preferred it to pass on to his children. Tavistock completed 
an attitude to risk assessment with Mr D and noted he had a medium attitude to risk.
Tavistock told Mr D that he should join the BSPS2 to protect his position as it wasnt likely to 
be able to finalise its advice before the time to choose deadline expired. So, Mr D did this.
In January 2018 Tavistock produced a suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It advised Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP and invest his 
funds via a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), who would actively manage the invested 
funds on Mr Ds behalf. Mr D accepted this advice and £332,356.20 was transferred from the 
BSPS to a SIPP.
In 2022 Mr D complained to Tavistock about the advice he received, believing it may have 
been unsuitable for him. Tavistock maintained the advice was suitable as transferring would 
give Mr D flexibility of income and would provide death benefits that would be available to his 
family. And the adviser recalled Mr D had lost faith in his employer and its ability to manage 
the BSPS so he wanted to transfer out of it. He said Mr D was also keen to secure the 
enhanced cash equivalent transfer value (CETV'). Tavistock said it had a responsibility to 
take the emotion out of the situation and ultimately made a recommendation that was in 
Mr Ds best interests. It also made sure Mr D was aware of the risks of transferring.
Unhappy with Tavistocks response, Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. He said the advice had resulted in a loss of guaranteed benefits for 
himself and his spouse and hed lost the financial security the scheme provided. Mr D said 
the matter was causing him a great deal of stress, particularly as his pension fund had lost 
around £70,000 since he transferred and continued to drop. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He said the 
advice to transfer was not clearly in Mr Ds best interests given Mr D was so far away from 
his expected retirement and he wasnt likely to know what his needs would be. But on 
balance, he thought Mr D could likely meet his objectives by joining the BSPS2, noting he 
would have a degree of flexibility by virtue of him having joined his employers DC scheme 
and hed potentially build up further retirement provisions over the next 25 years. The 
Investigator didnt think taking advantage of an enhanced CETV, or the potential for higher 
lump sum death benefits was a good enough reason to transfer. He also didnt think 
Tavistock had done enough to allay Mr Ds concerns over his employers influence on the 
pension. The Investigator recommended Mr D should be compensated based on him having 
opted to join the BSPS2 and that Tavistock should pay him £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice.
Tavistock didnt agree  it said the regulator had warned against basing advice on the 
growth rates required to match the DB scheme benefits (the critical yield), and the 
Investigator had placed too much emphasis on this. It had carried out cash flow analysis 
showing Mr D would have a sustainable fund in retirement, whilst also meeting his objectives 
of flexibility and improved death benefits. Tavistock said it also thought Mr D wouldve 
transferred his pension regardless. It questioned whether Mr D had taken any steps to fix his 
income, for example by taking an annuity and if not, this suggested he was happy with his 
existing arrangements, including the flexibility it gave him. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistocks actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave. I've summarised my 
findings below.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable and that a transfer should only be considered suitable if the 
advising firm can clearly demonstrate it is in the consumers best interests. Im also mindful 
that under COBS 9.2.1R Tavistock needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation to Mr D was suitable for him. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied Tavistock took reasonable steps to ensure the advice to transfer 
was suitable for Mr D or that it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
I think it was more likely that Mr D would receive pension benefits of a lower overall value in 
retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme to a SIPP. I say this because:
Tavistock carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the 
regulator, showing how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The TVAS 
showed that the critical yield at age 65 was 6.18% if Mr D took a full pension; if he took 
tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced annual pension it was 5.43%. At age 60, the 
critical yields were 6.95% and 6.03% respectively. The PPF critical yields were slightly 
lower but all still above 5%.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where 
a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
The discount rate was 4.5% for 22 years to retirement at age 65. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. There would be little 
point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But as all of the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the growth Mr D could likely achieve 
given his medium attitude to risk, I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value at retirement.
Tavistock says it carried out cash flow modelling showing that Mr Ds funds would last 
him if he transferred them to a SIPP, even if it assumed modest growth of 3.5% and he 
retired at age 60. But significantly Tavistock also recognised that Mr D could meet his 
income needs, and ensure a higher level of guaranteed income for the rest of his life, if 
he remained in the BSPS2 whether he retired at age 60 or 67. 
I recognise Tavistock based its advice on Mr D and his employer making pension 
contributions to his DC scheme over the next 20+ years. But its clear that those funds 
would be subject to investment risk. So, I think this was a strong reason for 
recommending that Mr D remained in his DB scheme. At the time of the advice, Mr Ds 
BSPS benefits were his only guaranteed retirement provisions, and I dont think he 
really needed to take a risk with these pension funds when his DC scheme would 
already be subject to investment risk.
Overall, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests to transfer out of the BSPS as he was 
likely to receive lower overall benefits at retirement. I also dont think Mr D needed to risk his 
guaranteed pension in this way, given any other pension provisions he would go on to build 
up would be subject to investment risk. So for this reason alone, I dont think Tavistock has 
shown that it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to transfer out of the BSPS.
However, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other 
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable overall, as Tavistock argues here, so Ive 
carefully considered these.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr D needed to transfer out of the BSPS in order to have flexibility in retirement. 
And I think he couldve most likely met his income needs in retirement if he joined the 
BSPS2. This is because:
Mr D was interested in retiring early but recognised it wasnt likely to be affordable, 
though he would keep an eye on things as he got older. So, at the time of the advice, 
the aim was to retire comfortably at age 67. Tavistock says Mr D needed £2,500 per 
month in retirement, but in reality it was too early to say with any certainty what Mr D 
would need.
At age 65 Mr D could take around £96,000 in TFC and a reduced pension of around 
£14,300. So, if Mr D stopped working from age 67, hed have guaranteed income of at 
least £22,300, factoring in his state pension, and a significant amount of TFC to draw 
down. When Mrs D turned 67 the following year, shed be entitled to a state pension of 
around £8,000 per year and an income of around £10,400 from her own DB scheme. 
So, together from Mrs Ds age 67, theyd have guaranteed income of at least £40,000 
per year, well in excess of their income needs. Mr D wouldve also been able to use 
the TFC to supplement whatever additional income they needed. And any funds Mr D 
had built up through his DC scheme could be left untouched so as to pass on to his 
beneficiaries, or it could be used for ad hoc capital or income requirements. So, I think 
being able to draw on the TFC and/or the DC scheme as and when needed gave them 
sufficient flexibility of income from age 67.Its evident Mr D liked the idea of retiring early (at age 60), as most people do. But I 
dont think this was a concrete plan at the time of the advice; it was at least 17 years 
away. So, although having extra flexibility to retire early was likely appealing, it wasnt 
necessary at the time of the advice. And in any event, I dont think that was a decision 
Mr D needed to make at this time  by joining the BSPS2, he retained the option to 
transfer out of the scheme closer to his retirement age if his circumstances required it. 
That a future CETV couldve been lower should not have had an impact on what was 
suitable for his circumstances at the time of the advice.
That said, Im also mindful that Tavistocks own cash flow analysis showed Mr and 
Mrs D could likely retire at age 60 even if Mr D remained in the BSPS2. The suitability 
report says the cash flow model demonstrates that Mr D could bridge the income gap 
between age 60 and 67 by using the TFC from the BSPS2 and taking whatever else 
was needed from his DC scheme. So, it seems to me that Mr D couldve achieved his 
objective of retiring early even if he remained in the BSPS2.
Tavistock says if Mr D hasnt yet purchased an annuity, it suggests hes happy with his 
SIPP and the flexibility it provides. But ultimately Mr D has a SIPP because of the 
advice Tavistock gave him; how he manages this going forwards is not relevant to the 
suitability of the advice Tavistock gave him in 2018.
Overall, I think that Mr D couldve met his income needs in retirement through a combination 
of taking his benefits through the BSPS2 and using whatever funds hed built up in his DC 
scheme flexibly. And this provided him with a higher amount of guaranteed income for life, 
thereby decreasing his overall risk in retirement. So, I dont think it was suitable or in Mr Ds 
best interests for Tavistock to advise him to transfer his DB pension, exposing him to the 
risks of the financial markets, just to have extra flexibility that he didnt really need. 
Death benefits
I dont think Mr D shouldve been encouraged to give up his guaranteed pension in order to 
provide extra death benefits that couldve been achieved in other ways without risking his 
own security in retirement. I say this because:
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved 
ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large 
sum to his family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr D, as it would to 
most people. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, 
Tavistocks role was to advise Mr D on what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme already offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that 
couldve been valuable to his wife in the event of his death. Under the BSPS2, this 
would be based on the pension available to Mr D before he took TFC, it was 
guaranteed and it escalated each year.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, 
but the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. 
As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced 
by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. So, it might not have provided the legacy that 
Mr D thought it would. In any event, if Mr D remained in the BSPS2 and retired closer 
to age 67, he could have a significant sum built up in his DC scheme that he wouldnt 
need to draw on and couldve passed on to any beneficiaries of his choice. So, he 
already had a way of ensuring part of his pension could be passed on to his children.Its evident that Tavistock explored life assurance with Mr D on a term and whole of life 
basis. The whole of life assurance quotes were based on a sum assured of £330,000; 
Tavistock noted this was affordable now, but could become unaffordable in the future. 
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr D. 
Ultimately, Mr D wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which 
would be less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, 
the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to 
leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide.
I can see Tavistock did look into term assurance with a sum assured of £100,000 to 
Mr Ds age 67, which was clearly affordable over the duration of the term. But it 
doesnt appear this solution was recommended. And I think Tavistock ought to have 
formally recommended this as a solution if Mr D genuinely wanted additional protection 
for his family beyond the spouses pension the BSPS2 would provide.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And ultimately Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his own security in retirement.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Tavistock ought to have addressed Mr Ds concerns about his employers influence over the 
DB scheme. Had it done so, I think Mr D wouldve most likely been assured by this.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension in the past and was inclined to transfer for this reason. But it was Tavistocks 
role to objectively address those concerns. As Tavistock said in its final response 
letter, it had to take the emotion out of the situation. But it seems to me that it did the 
opposite; as it said in the suitability report, it considered a transfer met Mr Ds 
emotional requirements at the time.
I think Tavistock ought to have emphasised that the BSPS2 was well-funded. And if 
there were future issues, it would still be covered by the PPF and Mr D still wasnt 
likely to be able to improve on those benefits. So, even if Mr D might have perceived 
there to be risk attached to the BSPS2, I think Tavistock ought to have emphasised 
that he would be taking on greater risk by exposing his pension funds to the volatilities 
of the investment markets. Furthermore, it ought to have reassured Mr D that the 
BSPS2 trustees were in place to act in the best interests of all members, and as such, 
his employer couldnt simply make changes to it without consultation.
I also think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that 
he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. And the recommendation was given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, 
support with his pension by way of ongoing advice and using the service of a DFM. So, 
I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D, it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont think that Mr Ds concerns about his former employer shouldve led to Tavistock 
recommending Mr D transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. And Im mindful hed already 
chosen to join the BSPS2 in the interim, so I think that demonstrates he was prepared to 
stay in the DB scheme if Tavistock considered that to be suitable for him.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received from Tavistock 
was unsuitable for him. As such, Tavistock should calculate redress owed to him on the 
basis that hed joined the BSPS2.
Mr D says that his pension has lost considerable value since he transferred, and that this 
has caused him a lot of stress and worry. Its evident that the redress calculation Im asking 
Tavistock to undertake will compensate Mr D for any financial loss hes experienced as a 
result of transferring his pension. But I also think that Tavistock should pay Mr D £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience the matter has caused him. I think Mr Ds concern over the loss 
to his pension fund, and how this could affect his future retirement, is completely 
understandable. And ultimately if he hadnt been advised by Tavistock to transfer his 
pension, he wouldnt have been impacted by the world events that caused his pension fund 
to drop. So, I think that it is fair for Tavistock to pay Mr D £300 to recognise the personal 
impact of its unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tavistock to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation, together with supporting evidence of what Tavistock based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with 
the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr D accepts Tavistocks offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the calculation, 
even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr D 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice caused him.
 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tavistock Partners 
(UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services to pay Mr D the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services pays Mr D 
the balance. 
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tavistock Partners 
(UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services should 
provide details of its calculations to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman