DRN-3565622
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, 
refused to allow her to pay an outstanding balance she owed them in instalments and 
reported adverse information to her credit account because of that outstanding balance.
What happened
In March 2021, M&S wrote to all their current account customers, of which Miss S was one, 
and advised that theyd be closing all current accounts later that year. The letter also advised 
customers what needed to be done in various scenarios, including where a customer had an 
overdrawn balance on their account, as Miss Ss account did.
In August 2021, Miss S arranged a switch of her current account to another bank. However, 
the other bank didnt provide Miss S with an overdraft facility, which meant that the 
overdrawn balance present on Miss Ss account at the time of the switch, which was 
approximately £690, remained liable for Miss S to pay to M&S.
Miss S then discussed repayment options for the outstanding balance with M&S over the 
next few months. But M&S wouldnt agree to an instalment plan on the outstanding balance 
as Miss S wanted, and Miss S wasnt happy that M&S were making adverse reports to her 
credit file about the outstanding balance. So, she raised a complaint.
M&S looked at Miss Ss complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards 
Miss S in how theyd managed the situation and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S 
wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that M&S had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so it seems evident that M&S did provide Miss S with a significant period of 
notice  approximately five months  that her M&S current account would be closing and 
that therefore Miss S needed to make alternative banking arrangements, including resolving 
any unpaid credit such as an overdrawn balance either by repaying that balance or 
arranging for the debt to be taken on by a new current account provider.
However, although Miss S arranged to switch her current account to another bank, she didnt 
repay the overdrawn balance on her M&S current account and she didnt arrange for her 
new bank to take on the debt. This meant that when the current account did switch to the 
new bank, Miss S continued to owe the previously overdrawn balance of approximately £690 
to M&S, but no longer had any arrangement in place with M&S in regard to that balance.
Under these circumstances I feel it was fair for M&S to make adverse monthly reports to the 
credit reference agencies in regard to this balance. And I say this because M&S, like all 
providers of credit, have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference 
agencies, and because Im satisfied the reports that M&S were making were accurate.
Miss S may contend that she contacted M&S after the current account switch to negotiate a 
payment plan to repay the outstanding balance. But as mentioned, Miss S had had five 
months to make the necessary arrangements for the impending closure of her M&S current 
account, and this notice included being informed by M&S of the possible consequences of 
not repaying any overdrawn balance before switching her current account to another 
provider  including that it might not be possible to close the M&S account if a debt remained 
on that account for her to pay, and that her credit file might be adversely affected as a result. 
It also must be noted that Miss S didnt liaise with M&S in any way before instructing the 
current account switch which left her indebted to M&S with no agreement or arrangement in 
place, but that she only contacted M&S following the current account switch, by which time 
her unauthorised debt to M&S had already been established by her actions.
Miss S spoke with M&S on 17 September 2021 and provided an income and expenditure 
assessment to M&S shortly afterwards. Following the receipt of this assessment, M&S wrote 
to Miss S asking her to contact them, and M&S have also been able to demonstrate to my 
satisfaction that they attempted to contact Miss S themselves by telephone on four separate 
occasions between 2 and 11 October 2021, all without success. M&S then sent a further 
letter to Miss S again asking her to get in touch with them.
On 20 November 2021, nearly twelve weeks after Miss S had established her unauthorised 
debt with M&S by switching her current account to another provider in the manner that she 
did, Miss S contacted M&S again and discussed her financial position with them. Miss S 
then confirmed that she didnt have any available disposable income to repay the debt, but 
that her mother was reducing her rent by a small amount which would enable her to repay 
£8.39 per month. 
M&S agreed to accept Miss Ss offer of payment in the form of a 0% interest debt 
consolidation loan, and they sent a loan agreement to that effect to Miss S for her to sign 
and return. But Miss S also wanted M&S to remove the adverse reporting which M&S had 
made to her credit file up to that time, which M&S werent willing to do. So, Miss S raised her 
complaint.
However. In consideration of all the above, I find it very difficult to conclude that M&S should 
fairly remove the adverse reporting from Miss Ss credit file here. Indeed, given that the 
unauthorised debt was established because Miss S instructed the current account switch to 
the new bank without arranging for either the repayment of her overdrawn balance, or for the 
new bank to take on the debt, Im satisfied that the adverse reports that M&S are reporting 
for this unauthorised debt are accurate and fair.
Additionally, given that Miss S didnt come to an arrangement with M&S until nearly three 
months after the current account switch, I also feel that the length of time that M&S have 
made those reports  which would only stop after Miss S had officially agreed to the debt 
consolidation loan so that an arrangement to pay was in place  is also fair.
Im aware that Miss S feels that M&S didnt provide a reasonable standard of service to her 
surrounding this balance, including that they didnt call her back when theyd promised or 
make sustained efforts to contact her by telephone. But having reviewed the contact records 
that M&S have provided, Im satisfied that M&S did make regular and sustained attempts to 
contact Miss S, including by both letter and telephone calls. And given that the balance in question was owed by Miss S to M&S and had become an unauthorised debt as a result of 
Miss Ss own actions, I feel it was incumbent on Miss S to have made further efforts to 
contact M&S here, rather than the other way round.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that M&S did give Miss S fair notice of their intention to close their 
current accounts and the actions Miss S needed to take in regard to her overdrawn balance 
if she wanted to avoid precisely the outcome thats happened here  that an unauthorised 
debt was established which Im satisfied has been fairly reported to the credit reference 
agencies as such.
All of which means that I dont feel that M&S have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss S in the manner that she contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I trust that Miss S will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman