DRN-3697988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc. They say its kept 
them on the standard variable rate (SVR), leading to them having to pay too much interest.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a mortgage with BoS, taken out on a self-certification basis in 2005. 
They initially had a two year fixed rate, and then took a two year tracker rate. From 2009 
their mortgage reverted to the SVR.
Mr and Mrs K say they asked BoS for a new interest rate, but it told them none was available 
to them because they had a self-certification mortgage. So they had to stay on the SVR  
leading to a large increase in their monthly payments.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs K fell into arrears and agreed a repayment plan with BoS. The arrears 
were capitalised in 2017, and Mr and Mrs K say they asked again about a new interest rate 
but were told they werent eligible. They say they were told they could not have a mortgage 
product as their type of mortgage didnt exist anymore, and because they couldnt provide 
proof of income.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs K fell back into arrears. They complained that they had been paying too 
much interest and that the monthly payments were too high because theyd unfairly been 
kept on the SVR rather than being given a new interest rate.
BoS said it had no evidence that Mr and Mrs K had asked for a new rate in 2017. They 
hadnt been eligible in 2016 because of the arrears. Once the arrears were capitalised, they 
were told they would be able to apply for a rate after theyd kept the mortgage up to date for 
a month or two. But it said they never made that application. BoS said the next time 
Mr and Mrs K discussed rates with the bank was in 2019, by which time they were back in 
arrears. The arrears were capitalised again, and Mr and Mrs K did take a new rate in 2020.
Our investigator said that what had happened in 2009 was out of time, and he couldnt 
consider that. He said Mr and Mrs K werent eligible for a new interest rate in 2016 and there 
was no evidence they asked for one after capitalisation in 2017. So he didnt recommend 
that their complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs K asked for it to be looked at by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I issued a provisional decision 
setting out my thoughts on the complaint. I said:
There are a number of issues that I have to decide in this case, and Ill deal with 
each in turn. They are:
What parts of this complaint we can consider  the events of 2009, or just the 
events of 2016 / 2017 and after?
Did Mr and Mrs K apply for a rate in 2017, as they say?
If they did, should a rate have been made available to them  and which rate?
The time limits
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service say that we cannot consider 
complaints made out of time. The time limit is that a complaint must be made no later 
than six years from  the date of the event complained of  or, if later, no more than 
three years from when the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of 
cause for complaint. Where a complaint is made out of time we cannot look at it 
unless the firm consents (which BoS doesnt in this case), unless theres evidence of 
an earlier complaint, or unless there are exceptional circumstances to explain the 
delay.
The starting point is that Mr and Mrs K are only going to be given a new interest rate 
if they apply for one  theres no obligation on BoS to pro-actively offer them a rate or 
invite them to apply. But if they do apply, BoS must treat them fairly in considering 
that application.
Mr and Mrs K say they applied for a rate in 2009, only to be told none was available. 
That deterred them from applying again, until they asked about rates again in 2016 
and 2017. The application they say they made in 2009 is more than six years before 
they first made this complaint. So its out of time on the first part of the rule. And I 
agree with our investigator that its out of time on the second part too. Mr and Mrs K 
say they had no way of knowing what they were told might be wrong or that they 
could complain about it. But theyd taken a new rate before, in 2007. If they wanted 
another, in 2009, but were told this time that they couldnt have one, then I think that 
ought reasonably to have told them they might have cause for complaint about not 
being given a rate.
As I havent seen any exceptional circumstances that meant Mr and Mrs K werent 
able to bring this part of their complaint in time, Im satisfied this means I cant 
consider what happened in 2009.
However, the events of 2016 and 2017 and thereafter are within six years of Mr and 
Mrs Ks complaint, and so are in time. Its on those events that I will focus in the rest 
of this decision. 
What happened in 2016 and 2017?
Ive carefully considered what both Mr and Mrs K and BoS say about what happened 
in 2016 and 2017. When they asked about a rate in 2016, Mr and Mrs K werent 
eligible for one because they were in arrears. I dont think thats unreasonable  a 
fixed rate comes with an early repayment charge (ERC). And where a borrower is in 
arrears, theres a risk that the mortgage will be unsustainable. If the property is sold, 
or repossessed, adding an ERC would increase the amount that has to be repaid.
Mr and Mrs K were told that they werent eligible for a rate while in arrears. In 
January 2017, they discussed capitalising the arrears and then taking a rate, and 
were told they would need to make the monthly payments for six months before 
capitalisation could be considered, and then they could apply for a rate.Mr and Mrs K called BoS several times over the next few months to check they were 
on track. In July 2017, they called and capitalisation was agreed with effect from 
August. This call note also records
Also wants to check about getting a lower interest rate, advised once account 
is utd [up to date], will possibly need to maintain payments for a couple of 
months before they can apply for a new interest rate.
There is no further record in the contact notes BoS has given us of contact with Mr 
and Mrs K until March 2019, when the mortgage had fallen back into arrears.
BoS says this means that Mr and Mrs K didnt get back in touch to apply for a rate 
after the capitalisation had taken effect. And as they didnt ask for a rate, it couldnt 
give them one. 
Mr and Mrs K say they did contact BoS to ask for a rate  but were told they would 
have to prove their income and go through a full affordability assessment and that 
they wouldnt be eligible for a rate otherwise.
On balance, and having considered the evidence, Im more persuaded by what 
Mr and Mrs K say about this than BoS. Ill explain why.
In the first place, the detailed contact notes BoS has given us are the collections 
notes, the record of discussions with the collections team about arrears. There are 
several entries in those notes where Mr and Mrs K were put through to other 
mortgage teams, but those calls do not appear in the notes. Its clear they must have 
happened, since theres a record of the collections team passing Mr and Mrs K 
through. But the notes of the other teams do not appear on the collections contact 
notes.
So Im satisfied that the evidence BoS has given us does not record all contact with 
Mr and Mrs K. It omits details of calls passed through to other teams. And therefore 
its equally possible that Mr and Mrs K called the team that dealt with rate switches 
after the capitalisation  but that also isnt recorded in the contact notes. Therefore, 
the mere absence of a record of any call in these notes is not definitive.
In the second place, Mr and Mrs Ks recollection of what they were told is clear. If 
they wanted a better rate, they would have to pass an affordability assessment, 
which they couldnt do. So they couldnt get a better rate.
This matches BoSs policy and their situation at that time. Mr and Mrs K took their 
mortgage out on a self-certified basis. At this time, BoS had separate rates for self-
certified and full-certified customers. Its shown us the list of rates it had in 2017. And 
in 2017, the only fixed rate available to a self-certified customer was 6.59%, which 
was higher than the SVR Mr and Mrs K were on.
To get access to the full-certified rates, BoS has told us that Mr and Mrs K would 
have had to pass a full affordability assessment at the same level it would expect of 
new borrowers at that time. Mr and Mrs K had just come out of arrears. Both of them 
were self-employed and had experienced issues with their incomes. In those 
circumstances, I think its unlikely they would have passed such an assessment had 
one been carried out  and I think its likely that would have been clear to Mr and Mrs 
K.If Mr and Mrs K had applied for a rate in 2017, then, they would either have been 
offered a self-certification rate which was higher than the SVR they were on. Or they 
would have been required to pass a full affordability assessment to get access to a 
rate lower than SVR, which they would not have passed. Therefore, if an application 
had been made, Mr and Mrs K would not have been offered a rate lower than the 
SVR they were paying at the time. 
This is BoSs policy from the time, as it has confirmed to us. And these were the self-
certification rates available at that time, again as it has confirmed to us. The 
information BoS has given us as part of our investigation of this complaint exactly 
matches Mr and Mrs Ks testimony about their recollections of what they were told in 
2017. And its difficult to see how they would have known that was the position 
unless BoS had told them that at the time.
Taking that into account, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs K did try to apply for a new 
rate, some time after the capitalisation  probably around August 2017. What they 
say they were told accords with what we know they would have been told. And, as I 
said above, I dont think the fact this conversation wasnt recorded in the collections 
contact notes is persuasive evidence it didnt happen.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs K did try to apply for a rate, after capitalisation, 
in 2017. And Im satisfied they were told that to reduce their rate from the SVR they 
were on, they would need to pass a full affordability assessment. As a result, the 
application didnt go any further  because there was no realistic prospect of Mr and 
Mrs K getting a rate lower than SVR based on BoSs policy at that time. And that 
brings me to the third question I have to answer  was this fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances?
Was it fair Mr and Mrs K were refused a lower rate in 2017?
BoS has told us that it has separate rates for self-certified and full-certification 
customers. When they applied in 2020, Mr and Mrs K were able to pass an 
affordability assessment, so the self-certification marker was removed from their 
account and so they can now access the lower rates offered to full-certification 
customers. But this was not the case in 2017, as Ive found above.
The difference between a self-certification customer and a full-certification customer 
is that a self-certification customer was not required to provide proof of income or 
expenditure at the point of application. As I understand it, there was no difference 
between the affordability threshold or underwriting criteria  only that no evidence 
was required. In other words, Mr and Mrs K had to pass the same affordability criteria 
to get their mortgage as any other customer, they just didnt have to provide proof 
that they did so.
Mr and Mrs K took their mortgage out in 2005. Their application for a rate was in 
2017, twelve years later. So I need to think about whether it was fair that they 
continued to be considered self-certification, and as a result offered less favourable 
rates (higher than those offered to full-certification customers, and higher than SVR), 
after all that time.
Ive taken into account the regulators rules and guidance for mortgage lenders. They 
are to be found in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, in the section known as 
MCOB.
MCOB 11.8.1 E says:Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary 
the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan 
with the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a 
new mortgage lender or home purchase provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example, 
by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the 
customer's situation or treat the customer any less favourably than it would treat 
other customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending 
to show contravention of Principle 6 (Customersinterests). 
Principle 6 says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The E suffix means this is not a rule (R), but an evidential provision. It means that 
conduct of the type set out in the provision is not necessarily a breach of the rules, 
but may tend to show unfairness (though, depending on the circumstances, it also 
may not).
11.8.1 E does not say that all customers are to be treated the same. But it does, in 
my view, show that there may be unfairness where a borrower who is unable to move 
to another lender is treated less favourably than a borrower who shares similar 
characteristics, for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other 
terms.
Where the lender offers less favourable products to some customers, it may give rise 
to the possibility of unfair outcomes in some situations. 11.8.1 E suggests that the 
regulator considered there to be the potential for unfairness where borrowers are 
unable to shop around.
In my view that was Mr and Mrs Ks position in August 2017. They were interest only 
borrowers, only just out of arrears, and having had difficulties with their self-employed 
income. I think it very unlikely theyd have been able to move their mortgage to 
another lender even if theyd tried. And that means they had no option but to stay 
with BoS, whatever rate it did (or didnt) offer them.
11.8.1 E says it may tend to show unfairness where a customer in this position is 
offered less favourable interest rates than other customers with similar 
characteristics.
Im satisfied that a full-certification customer in Mr and Mrs Ks position, in August 
2017, would have been offered access to the range of rates offered to full-
certification customers without the need to pass a full new customer affordability 
assessment.
Whereas Mr and Mrs K, as self-certification customers, would only be offered a 
self-certification rate  higher than the full-certification rates, and higher than SVR  
unless they passed a full new customer affordability assessment.The only difference between Mr and Mrs K and that other customer is that Mr and 
Mrs K took their mortgage out on a self-certification basis twelve years earlier. I dont 
think that means that Mr and Mrs K lack similar characteristics to that other borrower. 
I think that whats relevant to what 11.8.1 E refers to as similar characteristics are 
their characteristics at the time of the application, in 2017  not how they took their 
mortgage out many years earlier.
Mr and Mrs K met BoSs lending criteria in 2005  even if they werent required to 
prove it at the time. And that was twelve years before the application. Many things 
could change, both in their circumstances and in the circumstances of other 
customers who were asked to prove their income in 2005 over that time. Im not 
persuaded that how their application was assessed in 2005 is relevant to their 
circumstances, or the risk they presented, in 2017. I think whats relevant is their 
circumstances  their characteristics  at the time they made the application in 2017.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K were treated less favourably than other customers 
who did prove their income many years earlier, but were in the same position as Mr 
and Mrs K in 2017. As, at that time, they had similar characteristics to those other 
customers, I dont think thats fair.
I think that, acting fairly, when Mr and Mrs K applied for a rate in 2017, BoS should 
have recognised that they had no other options and should have ensured they were 
offered a rate no less favourable than it would have offered to a full-certification 
customer at that time. And to put matters right, thats the position it should put them 
back in now.
Mr and Mrs K finally took a new rate in September 2020. I dont now know what rate 
they would have taken in 2017, given the choice. But in the interests of simplicity and 
fairness, BoS should identify the lowest three year rate it had available to full-
certification customers in August 2017, and re-work Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage as if 
theyd been on that rate from 1 September 2017 until the start of their current rate in 
2020.
That means Mr and Mrs K will have made overpayments between 2017 and 2020. 
They should be given the choice of having those overpayments applied to their 
mortgage, to reduce the balance month on month (including the compounding effect 
of reductions made month by month), or of having the overpayments refunded to 
them with interest.
Finally, Im satisfied that being refused a rate in 2017 and being kept on the SVR, 
keeping their monthly payments at a level they struggled with and ultimately leading 
to them going back into arrears in 2019, caused them substantial distress. Its fair 
BoS compensates them for that and I think £500 is fair in all the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision. But BoS did not.
BoS said it had now located the call recording from July 2017. This shows that capitalisation 
was agreed, and that Mr and Mrs K were told that they would be able to call back in a couple 
of months to apply for a new rate. BoS said it had no record that Mr and Mrs K ever did call 
back, until October 2020 when they did take a new rate. It said it noted that Mr and Mrs K 
say they did call and were refused a rate, but that was not supported by the banks records. 
It believes that Mr and Mrs K first asked for a rate in October 2020, and so a rate should not 
be backdated to 2017.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. But having done so, I havent 
changed my mind and I adopt the reasons I set out in it as my final decision.
Ive taken into account what BoS has now said. But this is not further evidence  I dealt with 
this point in my provisional decision. I acknowledged that while Mr and Mrs K say they were 
turned down for a rate in 2017, there is no record of that conversation in the banks records  
as BoS reiterated in response to my provisional decision.
However, I also explained why, despite the absence of a record in the banks notes, I was 
persuaded that it was more likely that not that Mr and Mrs K did apply for a rate in 2017 and 
were turned down. 
I noted that there were other calls recorded which were transferred to other parts of the 
bank, and not recorded in the notes it sent us  so clearly the records are incomplete. And, 
in particular, I noted that what Mr and Mrs K say they were told in 2017 exactly reflects what 
they would have been told, under the banks policy at the time, if they had applied. I didnt 
think it likely they would have known what BoSs policy was and how it would impact their 
mortgage  unless they had made an application, BoS had turned it down, and explained 
why.
I was therefore persuaded that, despite the absence of a call recording or note of the 
conversation, Mr and Mrs K did contact BoS to apply for a rate shortly after the capitalisation 
but that BoS refused their application.
I also explained in my provisional decision why I felt that refusing their application for a rate 
in 2017 was unfair. BoS didnt respond to this part of my reasoning, and didnt disagree with 
what I thought should have happened had they asked for a rate. And so I havent changed 
my mind about this part of my provisional decision either.
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that  acting fairly  BoS 
ought to have offered Mr and Mrs K a rate in 2017 that was no less favourable than it would 
have offered to other customers with similar characteristics at that time. The origins of the 
loan as a self-certification mortgage are not relevant to Mr and Mrs Ks characteristics in 
2017, and so it should have offered them a rate no less favourable than it would have 
offered to an otherwise similar customer it categorised as full certification.
For ease, it should take the lowest available three year fixed rate and re-work the mortgage 
as if that rate had applied from 1 September 2017 up to the point they did take a new rate in 
2020. 
That means Mr and Mrs K will have made overpayments between 2017 and 2020. They 
should be given the choice of having those overpayments applied to their mortgage, to 
reduce the balance month on month (including the compounding effect of reductions made 
month by month), or of having the overpayments refunded to them with interest.
Finally, Im satisfied that being refused a rate in 2017 and being kept on the SVR, keeping 
their monthly payments at a level they struggled with and ultimately leading to them going back into arrears in 2019, caused them substantial distress. Its fair BoS compensates them 
for that and I think £500 is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to:
Select the lowest full-certification three year fixed rate available in August 2017 for 
customers with the same loan to value etc as Mr and Mrs K;
Re-work their mortgage as if that rate had applied to the mortgage from 1 September 
2017 until the start of their current rate in 2020;
Give Mr and Mrs K the option of either:
oHaving the resulting overpayments used to reduce their mortgage balance 
month on month, and therefore reducing the interest charged in the following 
months; or
oHaving the resulting overpayments refunded to them, adding simple annual 
interest of 8% running from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
refund;
In either case, if the interest rate includes a product fee, the product fee can be offset 
from the overpayments;
Pay Mr and Mrs K £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman