DRN-4207421
The complaint
Mrs W complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) level of service, following a 
claim on her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs W contacted BG as her boiler had broken down. She obtained an appointment online, 
and was given the earliest available date, which was for four days later. The BG engineer 
attended and completed the repair. 
Mrs W complained to BG as she said she was without hot water for those days and had to 
use an electric heater to keep warm. She also said that when the engineer attended, he told 
her that previous engineers hadnt carried out services correctly and this caused the issue 
with the boiler, that led to its breakdown.  
Mrs W said that she was told by BG that it would pay her £50 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. But she only received £15. Mrs W said that she would like to be 
compensated fairly. BG maintained its position that it had attended within a reasonable 
timeframe and that it had successfully repaired Mrs Ws boiler. It apologised to Mrs W for the 
four-day wait and confirmed that it had paid her £15 for this. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service, as she remained unsatisfied. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that given 
that Mrs W was vulnerable due to her age, that meant that BG shouldve given her an 
appointment much quicker. So, he recommended that BG increase its payment of 
compensation by a further £135 (making a total of £150). 
Mrs W accepted the view, BG didnt. It said that it had complied with the policy terms and 
conditions by having sent out an engineer as soon as possible. It said that during the time, it 
was its busiest period and it offered and gave Mrs W the first available appointment. 
Moreover, it repaired the issue with the boiler at that appointment. It didnt agree that 
compensation was ever warranted and didnt think it was fair for the compensation to be 
increased to £150. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 25 May 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 22 
June 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mrs W, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether BG carried out the repair in a 
reasonable time. 
Mrs W said that she made the appointment online and this was done on 18 December 2022. 
The first available appointment was given for 22 December 2022  some four days later. 
BG said that this was the first available appointment and said that although it was aware of 
the age of Mrs W and her family member, there were no other vulnerabilities disclosed by 
Mrs W. 
I accept that the breakdown occurred during the winter. I also accept that this was a peak 
time for BG. I note that Mrs W hasnt provided me with any information regarding whether 
she attempted to get an earlier appointment. In any event, the appointment given was for 
four days later. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see if BG satisfied its obligations under 
the policy. It states, under the section of reasonable time: Well carry out any repairs or visits 
youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that 
impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time 
when we can visit. 
Although there is no further definition of what amounts to a reasonable time, I dont think that 
four days was an unreasonable timeframe to attend and to carry out the repairs. I say this as 
Mrs W confirmed that she had temporary heating available to her. And whilst I accept that it 
wasnt ideal for Mrs W to have to boil a kettle for hot water, I note that the repair was carried 
out on the first visit, and Im told that there have been no further issues with the boiler. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that BG complied with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs W would like an increase in the level of compensation paid to her from BG. Currently, 
BG paid £15 and apologised. It said that it was aware of Mrs Ws age but, there were no 
other vulnerabilities disclosed to it by Mrs W. 
Our approach when considering compensation is to look at the error made by the business 
and how the error impacted on the policyholder. In this complaint, I cant agree that BG 
made any errors, as I have found that it attended to Mrs W within a reasonable timeframe 
and so complied with its obligations under the policy. Mrs W hasnt provided me with any 
evidence of how this impacted her (except not to have hot water for a short time) such as an 
impact on her health. And typically, were there has been a short delay, we would say that an 
apology is usually enough. 
BG has both apologised and paid a small monetary award and I think in the circumstances 
of this complaint, this fairly compensates this one-off incident. 
Presently, I think that BG were reasonable in its response to Mrs W. And it was fair in its 
payment of compensation for the short delay in its engineer attending Mrs W. I understand 
that this isnt the outcome that Mrs W wouldve liked, but currently, I wont be able to 
reasonably ask BG to do anything more at this stage, to resolve this complaint. I will though 
consider any further evidence that Mrs W might have if she wishes to rely upon it.
Responses to my provisional decisionBG accepted the provisional decision. 
Mrs W responded as follows:
Mrs W said that her and her family member were vulnerable due to their ages. And 
although she suffered from conditions, she did not disclose them to BG. 
She found it very difficult to boil hot water for washing and to take it upstairs. She 
found it difficult to take the heater upstairs as it was heavy. She also said that she 
had to keep the heating on for 24 hours per day due to the cold, which cost her more 
to run. 
Finally, she said: the boiler appointment offered, had fortunately already been made 
prior to the breakdown for a service and was therefore switched to an emergency 
repair as this was the earliest appointment available.
I have carefully considered Mrs Ws comments and they have not changed my provisional 
decision and Ill explain why.
Mrs W confirmed that she already had a boiler appointment offered, which was then 
changed to an emergency repair appointment, when the boiler broke down. She further 
confirmed that she was given the earliest appointment available. So, Im satisfied that BG 
acted within a reasonable amount of time when it offered her the repair visit, given that it 
offered her the earliest appointment available. 
I understand that Mrs W found it awkward to carry the heater and hot water upstairs and 
that she ran the heater for 24 hours per day. Whilst I empathise with Mrs W in having to 
adapt her ways during this period, I wouldnt have expected her to have the heating on for 24 
hours per day. And if she did, then I cant see any evidence that she told BG that this was 
what she was having to do. Nor can I see any evidence that she provided BG with proof of 
the extra costs she incurred as a result of waiting for the engineers to attend to her 
breakdown. Consequently, I dont think there is enough evidence from Mrs W to support this.  
Mrs W said that her and her family member were vulnerable due to their age. She also said 
that she suffered from two conditions which made her feel the cold. I asked Mrs W to 
provide me with further evidence to support her complaint. That evidence could be medical. I 
havent received anything. Further, she confirmed that she hadnt disclosed these conditions 
to BG.  So, I cant agree that BG were aware of her specific vulnerabilities. Or indeed 
evidence of how this adversely impacted her health. 
On considering whether the compensation ought to be increased further, I am of the view 
that BG were fair and reasonable to offer and pay £15 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Typically, were there has been a short delay, we would say that an apology is usually 
enough. But BG has both apologised and paid a small monetary award and I think in the 
circumstances of this complaint, this fairly compensates this one-off incident. 
I think that BG were reasonable in its response to Mrs W. And it was fair in its payment of 
compensation for the short delay in its engineer attending the boiler breakdown. I 
understand that this isnt the outcome that Mrs W wouldve liked, but I wont be asking BG to 
do anything more, to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman