DRN-3012124
The complaint
 Ms A has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) continued charging her 
excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Ms A complained to Co-op that the charges and fees applied to her account relating to her 
overdraft facility were making her financial difficulties worse. Co-op didnt uphold the 
complaint. And as Ms A was dissatisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms As complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Co-op ought to 
have realised that Ms A was experiencing financial difficulty by 1 February 2018 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Co-op 
didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Co-op will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Co-op acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 1 February 
2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms A was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because I think the way Ms A was using her account by this time should have 
indicated to Co-op that Ms As use of her overdraft was unsustainable. Ms As statements 
show that she was regularly relying on payday lenders or other high cost borrowing. In these 
circumstances, Co-op ought to have realised that Ms A was at a significant risk of being 
unable to repay what she already owed. I also think its worth noting that for much of the 
previous year Ms A was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she often didnt see or 
maintain a credit balance for an extended period of time. Co-ops own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. So I think that Ms As overdraft usage should have prompted Co-op to have 
realised that she wasnt using her overdraft as intended. With all of this in mind, I think Co-op 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Ms A with 
forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Co-op has commented that Ms A wasnt willing to engage with it to discuss her financial 
situation, and that it nonetheless did ultimately cap the charges being applied to her account. 
But regardless of whether Co-op had been given detailed information about Ms As 
circumstances I think it should have been clear from the way she was managing her account 
that there was a problem. As Co-op continued charging Ms A in the same way, regardless of 
whether those charges were capped or not, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms A ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Co-op didnt 
treat Ms A fairly and that she lost out because of what Co-op did wrong. And this means that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Co-op needs to do to put things right for Ms A
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms As complaint for Co-op to put things right by:
Reworking Ms As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 February 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Co-op should contact Ms A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms As credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Co-op 
should remove any adverse information from Ms As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Co-op to take off tax from this interest. Co-op must give 
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms As complaint. The Co-operative bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman