DRN-4063427
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Miss D made to National Westminster Bank 
Plc. NatWest issued a mortgage offer in April 2022, but later withdrew it.
What happened
Miss D applied for the mortgage in November 2021. She wanted to borrow £76,000 to 
purchase her property under a Right to Acquire scheme.
The Right to Acquire documents indicated the property had been valued at £90,000 in July 
2021, and that Miss D was entitled to a £9,000 discount. The remaining £5,000 was coming 
from Miss Ds savings.
NatWest instructed a surveyor to visit the property to undertake a mortgage valuation. The 
report was received at the end of November 2021. The surveyor said there was evidence of 
possible cavity wall tie failure and said a report from a specialist was needed.
After some back and forth between Miss D, her housing association (who felt a specialist 
report wasnt needed) and NatWest, the required specialist report was received by NatWest 
in mid-April. NatWest referred the report to the surveyor and they confirmed the property 
was suitable security for the mortgage.
NatWest issued the mortgage offer on 22 April 2022. That said:
Value of the property assumed to prepare this information sheet: £108,000.00 
Minimum value of the property required to borrow the illustrated amount: £101,333.33
On 8 August 2022 Miss Ds solicitor said the purchase price needed to be amended to 
£81,000 to match the Right to Acquire agreed purchase price.
That amendment was made, but when the new mortgage offer was requested that 
automatically triggered an updated credit score to be carried out. The new credit score 
showed Miss D had a higher level of debt than had been shown in the first credit score in 
April 2022. Overall, Miss D no longer passed the credit score which led to the underwriter 
declining the application.
Miss D appealed the decision, providing up to date information about her income but, upon 
review, the underwriter decided the decline decision should stand.
Unhappy with what had happened Miss D raised a complaint. NatWest said it made a 
mistake with the purchase price and offered compensation for that. It said it would pay £400 
compensation and refund the £177 valuation fee it had charged. It also said it would 
reimburse the cost of the specialist report, and consider reimbursing Miss Ds solicitors 
costs for the failed application. It said, however, that it would not be able to reinstate the 
application as Miss D had failed the most recent credit scoring.
Miss D referred the complaint to our service and it was looked at by one of our Investigators. 
He said whilst NatWest had done something wrong, it had taken the correct steps to put it 
right. He said under the terms of the offer NatWest had the right to withdraw it if Miss Ds 
circumstances changed, and the increase in her indebtedness was a change in 
circumstance.
Miss D didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Miss D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
NatWest doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. NatWest isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. I understand Miss D felt that the 
specialist report wasnt needed, but that was required by the surveyor (not by NatWest). All I 
can consider against NatWest is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of 
surveyors and having considered everything Im satisfied it did. It was entitled to rely on the 
report it received from the independent professional that had been instructed and as part of 
that the specialist report was required.
NatWest has admitted it made a mistake in the April 2022 mortgage offer. Whilst the 
purchase price had originally been entered correctly as £81,000, when the valuation report 
was received the purchase price was amended in error to £108,000 (the value of the 
property). That meant the mortgage offer was wrong.
When Miss Ds solicitor notified NatWest of the error in August 2022 a new, correct 
mortgage offer needed to be issued. 
As part of the process of reissuing a mortgage offer NatWest needed to carry out an updated 
credit search. Thats because it needed to ensure, at the time it issued that offer, that the 
application met its credit scoring criteria. Thats not at all unusual, and normally wouldnt 
cause a problem.
Unfortunately here Miss D had significantly increased her indebtedness so that a higher level 
of unsecured debt now showed on her credit file than appeared in April 2022.
The April credit search showed payments to loans as £740 a month, and that Miss D had 
around £680 in credit card debt. In August that had changed to £833 in loan payments and 
around £8,180 in credit card debt. When asked about that Miss D confirmed her loan 
repayments to be £832 and her credit card debt to be around £9,200. She said one of the 
original loans had come to an end, and shed refinanced another from £118 a month to £263 
a month.
That is a fairly significant change in that four-month period and, whilst we cant say for sure 
whether that was the only reason the application was declined, it would likely have had an 
impact. The application wasnt declined on underwriting just for affordability reasons, it was declined because it no longer passed the credit score (with affordability being just one thing 
that feeds into that, along with the use of credit).
Lenders are generally allowed to assess their mortgage applications in line with the level of 
risk they are willing to accept at a given time. 
Miss D is understandably unhappy and frustrated at the offer being withdrawn, but that is 
allowed. The mortgage offer said:
This Offer is conditional upon us being satisfied that:
There has been no material change in your circumstances since the date of this 
Offer, which we were not aware of, which could affect your ability to afford the loan. 
By this, we mean a change to your circumstances which, had we known about it at 
the time of making this Offer, might have resulted in us being unable to provide the 
Offer to you or only being able to provide the Offer to you for a lower amount.
Miss Ds increase in indebtedness was a material change in her circumstances. She no 
longer passed NatWests credit score and if shed been in the August 2022 position in 
April 2022 then Im satisfied NatWest wouldnt have issued the April 2022 mortgage offer. 
Because of this NatWest had the right to withdraw the offer in line with the above stated offer 
term. This is normal industry practice and allowed by the regulator. 
Miss D says it is unfair because if NatWest hadnt made the mistake in the first place a 
replacement offer wouldnt have been needed. Whilst I understand Miss Ds point, a credit 
search can be undertaken at any time. It isnt unknown for a lender to carry out a 
pre-completion credit check, and so the offer would still have been withdrawn at that time 
had that happened.
Having considered everything Im satisfied NatWest did nothing wrong when it withdrew the 
mortgage offer as Miss D had a material change in her circumstances such that she no 
longer met NatWests lending criteria as she didnt pass the credit score.
That said I do agree that some compensation is due because of the initial mistake made by 
NatWest in issuing the April 2022 mortgage offer based on the incorrect purchase price.  
In its response to the complaint NatWest offered to:
Pay £400 compensation for the poor service.
Refund the £177 valuation fee Miss D paid to NatWest.
Reimburse the valuation specialist report fee Miss D paid.
Consider reimbursing Miss Ds related solicitors costs.
Remove all the credit searches from Miss Ds credit file in relation to this mortgage 
application. 
It said that if Miss D wanted it to reimburse the specialist report and her solicitors costs then 
she needed to provide details of those to the complaint handler.
That seems a fair offer and is in line with what I would have awarded had that offer not 
already been made. I think offering Miss D a mortgage only to later withdraw the offer 
caused Miss D confusion, upset and inconvenience. I think £400 is fair for that. 
NatWest has offered to refund the valuation fee and pay compensation equivalent to the 
specialist report cost, as well as saying it would consider reimbursing her solicitors costs for 
the failed purchase. Again, I think that is a fair way to resolve this complaint. If Miss D would like to take NatWest up on its offer in respect of the specialist report and her solicitors costs 
then she should contact NatWest directly about that (if she hasnt already done so).
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £577 (£400 plus £177) as 
well as saying it will consider other costs (if the evidence is provided) to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £577 plus consider the 
additional specialist report and solicitors costs if Miss D provides the evidence of those.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman