DRN-3805981
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money she lost 
after she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
In October 2021, Mrs A received a call from a company claiming she was entitled to a PPI 
refund of £4,000, but that shed need to make a payment to them for £430 to claim this 
amount. Mrs A has said shed completed a PPI claim form some years before, and although 
this claim was declined she thought it was in respect of that.
Believing things to be genuine Mrs A went ahead and made a payment for £430, to the 
account details the caller provided her, which were for an individual. Shes said following 
this, she was in contact with who she thought was a representative of the company almost 
on a daily basis. They told her shed be able to claim back other charges from her bank, and 
as shed been with her bank for such a long time, she was entitled to £30,000. But again, the 
company told Mrs A that she would need to make payments for fees and taxes, in order to 
receive her refund.
Mrs A went ahead and made further payments. Overall, she sent five payments totalling 
£4,541 to three different accounts, that had been provided to her, but she never received 
any refunds. Mrs A realised shed been the victim of a scam, when she was asked for further 
payments, but after telling the caller she didnt have any more money to give, she wasnt 
contacted again and was unable to get in touch with who she had been speaking to.  
Unknown to her at the time, she had been dealing with fraudsters and had sent her money to 
accounts controlled by the fraudsters.
A breakdown of the payments Mrs A sent to the fraudsters is listed below;
27 October 2021 £430 (to payee one)
28 October 2021 £640 (to payee two)
1 November 2021 £966 (to payee two)
7 November 2021 £1,000 (to payee three)
17 December 2021 £1,505 (to payee three)
Miss A contacted Bank of Scotland. Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland says one or more of those exceptions applies in 
this case.
It looked into Mrs As complaint and issued its final response in March 2022, upholding the 
complaint in part. It agreed to refund 50% of the amount Mrs A lost, being £2270.50. In 
summary, this was because Bank of Scotland said it could have done more to assist Mrs A. 
But it argued that Mrs A made the payments without having a reasonable basis for belief that 
the caller could get her a refund and it didnt think Mrs A had done sufficient checks to 
ensure the caller was working for a genuine company. Bank of Scotland also said it tried to 
recover the money from the beneficiary banks (the banks to which the payments were 
made), but no funds remained.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into things and thought the offer Bank of Scotland had made, to 
refund 50% of the money Mrs A had lost, was fair in the circumstances. In summary, he said 
this because he didnt think Mrs A had a reasonable basis for believing the caller was 
genuine, and so she should share some of the liability. He said that, while he recognised  
Mrs A had been the victim of a scam, there was enough going on for her to have had some 
concerns about the transactions she was making.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
As Ive mentioned, Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like 
the one Mrs A has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. One such 
circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. Bank of Scotland 
has refunded 50% of Mrs As losses, accepting that it could have done more when Mrs A 
made the payments. So it recognised, under the provisions of the CRM code, it should bear 
some responsibility for Mrs As loss. 
As Bank of Scotland has provided a partial refund to reflect this - there is no need for me to 
consider this point further. A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, 
if it can be demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable 
basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
In considering these points, account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. So, Ive 
considered what steps Mrs A took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of what she was 
being told about being able to get a refund of PPI, and whether it was reasonable for her to 
proceed with the payments.
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mrs A had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments were for a legitimate reason or that the person she 
transacted with was legitimate. I understand that the nature of scams like this one are that scammers skilfully apply pressure to their victims. But, I also think there were several points 
where Mrs A reasonably ought to have questioned what she was being told. I say this 
because:
- Mrs A wasnt expecting a PPI refund and had received the call out of the blue. Im 
mindful Mrs A has said shed made a previous claim for PPI many years before, 
but this was declined and Mrs A has said she wasnt aware that she had PPI 
(Bank of Scotland has confirmed that Mrs A has never had PPI on products it had 
held for her). Considering Mrs A wasnt sure whether she had PPI, I think being 
unexpectedly told she was due £4,000, ought to have led her to question further 
the legitimacy of what she was being told.  
- The fraudsters didnt provide Mrs A with any proof of her entitlement to a refund, 
nor did Mrs A ask the fraudsters about this. Mrs A has said she did ask for some 
documentation from the fraudsters, but they gave excuses as to why they could 
not provide this. Where Mrs A didnt have any proof from the company and given 
the unexpected nature and large amount that she was being offered. I think there 
was an opportunity for Mrs A to be more vigilant ahead of making payments to 
this company that had cold called her.
- The nature of what was being proposed by the fraudsters seemed improbable. I 
think being cold called and told that you are entitled to £4,000 is questionable, but 
then when this increases to £30,000 I consider this to be implausible, to the point 
of being too good to be true. Especially considering, in the circumstances of this 
case, Mrs A did not think she even had PPI. 
- I cant see that Mrs A sort any confirmation of how the proposed refunds were 
genuine. And I think it was questionable why it was necessary for Mrs A to 
continue to make payments herself, for a refund that she was supposedly entitled 
to. 
- Mrs A thought she was dealing with a company. But the payments she made 
were to multiple personal accounts. I think there was an opportunity for Mrs A to 
have reasonably questioned why she was paying individuals, when she was 
dealing with a company.
Im mindful, given how convincing fraudsters can be that, in isolation, any of the factors Ive 
set out above may not have been enough to have reasonably prevented Mrs A from 
proceeding. But when considering the specific circumstances of this case and all of the 
factors collectively, on balance, I think that there was enough going on that Mrs A could fairly 
and reasonably have taken further steps to protect herself. So in the circumstances, I think 
Mrs A must bear some responsibility for her loss. 
Ive also looked into whether Bank of Scotland could have done more to recover Mrs As 
funds once it was made aware of the scam. But Bank of Scotlands notes show it contacted 
the other banks the payments were sent to, but unfortunately it was unable to recover any 
money. I dont think Bank of Scotland has missed an opportunity to recover the money.
Mrs A has my considerable sympathies. Shes found herself in an unenviable situation 
where she lost money to a fraudster. And I understand the whole experience has been 
deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of feeling and the impact this 
has had on her. But overall, for reasons explained Im persuaded that the offer Bank of 
Scotland has already made, to refund 50% of the money lost, is fair and reasonable 
considering the circumstances of this case. So I dont think Bank of Scotland has to refund 
any more of the money Mrs A sadly lost.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman