DRN-2418742
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on their 
home insurance policy for damage to their roof. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B said part of their roof was damaged during a storm in February 2020. They 
called their insurer and explained that pieces of upvc and timber were swinging from the 
gable end of their roof. Fascia boards had become detached during the storm. When 
Mr and Mrs B spoke to Fairmead they were told any claim would have an impact on their no 
claims bonus and renewal premium and were asked if they still wanted to proceed.
Because part of the roof was hanging off they were then put through to the home emergency 
service. After a long wait on the telephone they were told the circumstances didnt constitute 
an emergency and they were put back through to the claims line. Mr and Mrs B said they 
were then told the likely cost of repair would be less than the policy excess. 
Mr and Mrs B insisted on a visit to assess the damage. But after an inspection Mr and Mrs B 
were told Fairmead wouldnt support the claim as the timber under the upvc had rotted due 
to poor maintenance. When Mr and Mrs B asked what maintenance they were expected to 
carry out on hidden timbers they didnt receive an answer. So they want Fairmead to 
consider their claim again.
Fairmead said Mr and Mrs B had reported that the fascia at the front of their home had 
blown down during high winds. But its inspection had indicated that the fascia board had 
come down due to the timber under the upvc being clearly rotten and in need of 
replacement. The weather had highlighted a pre-existing condition. And that wasnt 
something that was covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Fairmeads response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. He checked the weather data for the time of the 
damage and could see thered been a storm with winds of over 70mph. And the winds would 
likely have put pressure on the fascia boards. 
Our investigator felt the storm conditions were probably the cause of the damage. There was 
no evidence to show that rot had caused the roof to be damaged. The evidence suggested 
high winds had caused the damage and revealed the rot underneath. 
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He didnt think Mr and Mrs B were aware 
of any rot before it was exposed by the storm. And so it wouldnt be fair for Fairmead to rely 
on the gradual damage exclusion. He said Fairmead should reconsider the claim without 
reference to the exclusion clause. And if the claim was otherwise payable it should settle the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Our investigator could see Mr and Mrs B had raised concerns about the poor service theyd 
received during the claim submission. But Fairmead hadnt responded. So he felt Fairmead 
should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Fairmead didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Based on the 
available evidence it felt the damage hadnt been caused by an insured peril. Its report 
confirmed the timber under the UPVC was rotten and the stormy weather had highlighted a 
pre-existing problem. It was a maintenance issue that hadnt been specifically caused by the 
storm. And the policy didnt provide cover for maintenance. 
Fairmead said a level of inconvenience was to be expected with any claim. And it was 
obliged to make customers aware of the impact of any claim at the beginning of the process 
to help manage expectations. So it didnt feel any compensation was merited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B reported damage to the fascia boards at the front of their roof following a 
storm. Ive checked the home insurance policy documents and the building is insured 
against loss or damage caused by storm or flood. So they feel an insured event has taken 
place and Fairmead should consider their claim. Fairmead argue that a pre-existing 
condition is the cause of the damage  not the storm. The timbers under the upvc were 
rotten. So Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened to see if Fairmead has acted 
fairly and reasonably when considering Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
When considering a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider three main 
questions:
Firstly is there evidence there was a storm around the date of the damage? The weather 
data confirms there was a storm in the area where Mr and Mrs B live with winds of around 
70mph. And Fairmead hasnt disputed this.
Secondly I need to consider if the damage is consistent with what Id normally consider 
storm damage. In this case the inspectors report confirms the insured fascia board at the 
front elevation has come off in high winds. Two sections on either side of a pitched roof have 
been blown off. So I think the damage reported is consistent with storm damage.
Finally I need to consider if the storm was the main cause of the damage. Fairmead has 
declined the claim as it believes the timber under the upvc is rotten and in need of replacing. 
It believes the storm highlighted a pre-existing condition caused by lack of maintenance  
but it didnt cause the damage.
Mr and Mrs B said the wood that came down with the upvc board wasnt rotten. And the only 
inspection Fairmead carried out was a glance from about 10m away. Mr and Mrs B asked 
Fairmead what sort of maintenance they should have been expected to carry out. It wouldnt 
have been possible to inspect the timbers without first removing the fascias. But they didnt 
get a response. 
Insurers dont normally cover anything thats part of normal household maintenance or 
upkeep. They only cover sudden events which the customer couldnt have foreseen or been 
able to control. And they write their policies to show whats covered and whats excluded. 
Fairmead declined the claim as they say the rotten timber was a pre-existing condition. And 
the policy says, we will not pay for gradually operating cause  any loss, damage or liability 
arising from wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over time.When looking at claims where the insurer has declined a claim in these circumstances, our 
service considers whether the customer shouldve reasonably been aware of what was 
happening. If not we might not think it fair for the insurer to decline the claim. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs B shouldve been aware there was a problem 
with the condition of the timbers behind the upvc fascias. There was nothing to indicate any 
gradual damage. And Mr B says the timbers that came down with the upvc fascias didnt 
look rotten anyway. 
Some wear and tear to the timbers would be inevitable over a time. But it wouldnt be 
obvious to the policy holder if the fascia boards in front of the timber appeared in good 
condition. And the upvc fronts didnt just fall out of the timber frame because the timbers had 
rotted away. Theres nothing to suggest any previous problem with the fascias. They 
became detached during the high winds of a recorded storm. Which Fairmeads inspection 
confirms.
If Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have known, they were prevented from noticing or repairing any 
damage or alerting their insurer. I dont think they couldve done anything more. And they 
took action as soon as the fascias were detached following the storm conditions.  
So I dont think it would be a fair and reasonable for Fairmead to rely on the exclusion 
clause. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs B shouldve (or shouldve reasonably) 
been aware of any maintenance issues or damage happening gradually behind the fascias. 
Visual inspection of the upvc fronts wouldve been unlikely to reveal any problems with the 
timbers behind them. And Fairmead wasnt able to provide an answer when Mr B asked 
what more he couldve done to be aware of any potential problem. 
Taking all the evidence together I think its more likely the specific weather event caused the 
damage, in the specific area it could most affect. Without the high winds its unlikely the 
fascia boards wouldve been damaged. 
Putting things right
If Fairmead had treated Mr and Mrs B more fairly, it wouldnt have declined their claim as a 
result of a pre-existing gradual problem. So to put this right Fairmead should look at the 
claim again without reference to the exclusion clause it previously relied on. And it if the 
claim becomes otherwise payable it should settle the claim in line with any remaining terms 
and conditions of the home insurance policy.
I also agree with our investigator that Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 
compensation for their trouble and upset. Although some inconvenience should be expected 
when reporting a claim during a busy period, Mr and Mrs B have had to spend some 
considerable time and effort to persuade Fairmead to inspect the damage and progress the 
claim.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited. To put 
things right their claim should be reassessed in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the home insurance policy. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should also pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset theyve been put through.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman