DRN-4063253
The complaint
Mr V complains Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account without a reason. He would like to know 
the reason and his account reopened.
What happened
Mr V had an account with Monzo.  Mr V received a letter on 11 March 2021 giving him 60 
days notice to close his account. 
Mr V says the letter came out of the blue and he didnt know why Monzo had decided to 
close his account. He said as a result he had suffered inconvenience. 
Monzo said they were entitled to close the account and had complied with the terms and 
conditions of the account when they gave 60 days notice.
Mr V complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought the account had been closed in line with the terms of the account and he didnt think 
they had acted unfairly. He said Monzo didnt have to provide a reason for the closure. Mr V 
was unhappy he said he didnt think he had breached the terms and he hadnt been given a 
reason for the closure, so he refused to accept the decision to close his account. Our 
investigator said that Monzo had made a commercial decision to close Mr Vs account and 
that our service had received information in confidence which he had reviewed, and he was 
satisfied the account had been fairly closed.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Vs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Monzo were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Vs account. 
Following the review Monzo decided to close Mr Vs account. Mr V is unhappy with the 
closure. He has said hes been a customer of Monzo for many years. He doesnt understand 
why Monzo have decided to close his account and he wants to know what the reason is for 
the closure. He doesnt think he has breached the terms of the account.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive next looked at Monzos decision to close Mr Vs account. Banks are entitled to end their 
business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr Vs account say that Monzo 
can close an account giving 60 days notice and, in some circumstances, they can close the 
account with immediate effect. In this case Monzo gave Mr V 60 days notice that they were 
going to close his account. They are entitled to close the account with 60 days notice. Im 
satisfied that Mr V was sent that notice. I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably here. So, it 
was entitled to close the account as its already done, and I cant say Monzo has treated 
Mr V unfairly. 
Mr V wants to know the reason why his account has been closed but Monzo isnt obliged to 
share this information with Mr V so I cant say that they are being unfair in not providing him 
with this information. The investigator explained that as a service we receive information in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of 
the information Monzo has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential. However, I have reviewed this information and Im satisfied that Monzo havent 
acted improperly when they closed Mr Vs account
I appreciate that Mr v will be disappointed with my decision. I accept that he suffered 
inconvenience and stress when Monzo closed his account, but Monzo were entitled to close 
the account and they have done so giving the correct notice. Looking at the evidence I cant 
say they have treated Mr V unfairly, so I wont be asking them to reopen the account. As Ive 
said they arent obliged to give Mr V a reason for the closure. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman