DRN-3931009
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurance broker Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd 
regarding its actions in respect of a policy he set up via it.
What happened
Mr S arranged cover via Right Choice in July 2022, to commence on 9 August 2022. Shortly 
after making the initial arrangements Mr S realised that one of the named drivers on the 
policy had received a penalty notice for speeding which Mr S had not been aware of. He 
notified Right Choice.
On the 9 August, the day the policy began, Right Choice contacted Mr S. It said the premium 
had changed due to the notification of the speeding fine. Mr S spoke to Right Choice and it 
gave him several options for resolution, including cancellation. But Mr S wasnt happy with 
the fees Right Choice was charging. Right Choice then began asking Mr S to provide details 
he had sent to it already, and threatening cancellation if such was not provided. Mr S 
responded to each request by sending what he had sent before, so was more disappointed 
with each further request for the information. And the threat of cancellation worried him. On 
the fourth occasion of receiving such a request Mr S wrote to Right Choices head office and 
he received assurances the next day that Right Choice wouldnt be cancelling his policy. 
Right Choice noted that Mr S had been in contact with it in the weeks since 9 August 2022 
about the request for further premium payments and cancelling the policy. It said the timing 
of the request, on the date the policy had started, was only circumstantial  but recognised 
this meant further fees had become due for cancellation. It said it would, therefore, charge 
Mr S only £60. It acknowledged that it had made an error when processing Mr Ss 
information which had resulted in it chasing Mr S for information he had already supplied and 
apologised. It wasnt minded to do anything more. Mr S cancelled the policy and complained 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator, noting that other charges had been waived, felt that Right Choice could 
reasonably charge a £60.00 cancellation fee. She felt it should pay £100 compensation for 
the upset she thought Right Choices errors had caused Mr S. 
Mr S said he was willing to accept that. Right Choice disputed it. Right Choice said it had 
acted within a day to confirm to Mr S that it would not cancel his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My background detail set out above is only a summary of the events that occurred in 
August 2022 and which Mr S has raised concerns about. But I can confirm Ive considered 
all of the points raised by Mr S. My focus here is on Right Choices failings.
I appreciate that Mr S is concerned about the timing of Right Choices request for further 
payment or cancellation. But I havent seen anything which makes me think this was an 
intentional act by it to allow the policy to start. In any event, Right Choice has waived all 
charges with the exception of the £60.00 cancellation fee. And this would have been 
applicable whenever the policy was cancelled. And its made in line with the agreement Mr S 
had with Right Choice. Im satisfied it was fairly charged and that allowing Mr S to cancel 
whilst limiting the fees charged to £60.00 was a reasonable way of resolving Mr Ss 
concerns about the requested additional premium. 
But when Right Choice was checking Mr Ss details on 8 and 9 August 2022, it made an 
error. This caused its systems to think Mr S had not supplied it with key policy information 
when in fact he had provided everything Right Choice had asked for. This resulted in Mr S 
receiving four separate chasers for the exact information he had already provided  and 
threatening cancellation by the insurer if such wasnt received. This resulted in Mr S having 
to act urgently, in response to the first two requests, to send the information again, and 
caused him worry about what would happen if that wasnt received or acknowledged. 
I accept that this worry increased each time the request and threat were received, 
particularly as the third and fourth requests were received in quick succession to the second. 
Mr S eventually resolved this by finding contact details for Right Choices head office. That 
action generated confirmation from Right Choice that it would not cancel the policy. 
I note that the confirmation I reference above was given to Mr S within 24hours of his contact 
with the head office. So at that point, 31 August 2022, the worry and concern caused by 
Right Choices errors were reasonably alleviated going forwards. But it didnt resolve or 
make up for what had already happened. I think £100 compensation is fairly and reasonably 
due in the circumstances here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to pay Mr S £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman