DRN-3423557
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account, for
which it charged a monthly fee and provided several potential benefits in return, in 2012 and
then refused a request she made to switch to a fee-free account in 2013. She made this
complaint (the first complaint) to Lloyds during 2018.
Later on, Mrs B also complained that Lloyds should have switched her to a fee-free account
in 2018 when it was investigating her first complaint, but it didnt (the second complaint).
As a result of both complaints, Mrs B thinks Lloyds should refund her all the fees she paid for
the packaged account from 2012 onwards and add interest.
(Lloyds has told us that it switched Mrs B to a fee-free account in March 2020. There doesnt
seem to be any dispute about this date and I have taken it to be correct). 
What happened
After Mrs B brought her first complaint to us, Lloyds objected to us investigating it. Lloyds
thought that by the time Mrs B brought it to us, the time limits that determine which
complaints we can consider had passed. Another ombudsman considered Lloyds objections
and agreed that Mrs B had brought the first complaint to us too late. Consequently, we have
not considered the first complaint any further.
There has not been any dispute that Mrs B brought her second complaint (that Lloyds should
have switched her to a fee-free account in 2018) within the time limits. 
I previously sent Mrs B and Lloyds a provisional decision on the second complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and I 
explained that I thought Lloyds had not acted fairly. I invited both parties to send me any 
further comments they wanted to make before I made a final decision. The period of time I 
allowed for this has now passed. Lloyds has said it accepts my provisional decision and has 
offered to pay Mrs B some compensation. However, Mrs B has told us that the amount of 
compensation it has offered doesn't reflect the time (she) invested in the complaint. She 
wants Lloyds to pay more. 
During our investigation into the second complaint, I listened to recordings of four
phone calls between Mrs B and Lloyds where, amongst other things, she said that Lloyds
had charged her extortionate interest for an overdraft and misled her about the possibility
of having a loan rather than an overdraft. Lloyds told her that it would look into those
concerns separately. I do not know what happened about those concerns. I have not
considered them here. So, to avoid any confusion, I would like to state that this decision only
relates to Mrs Bs complaint that Lloyds should have switched her to a fee-free account
when she complained that it had mis-sold her the packaged account in 2018 (the second
complaint). It does not cover any other matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into
everything that Mrs B and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the second complaint, and
Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why below.
As the only remaining point of dispute between Mrs B and Lloyds is about how much 
compensation Lloyds should pay, I will first include an extract from my provisional decision 
which explains why I am upholding the second complaint. Ill then explain why I think the 
compensation on offer is reasonable. 
Extract from my provisional decision 
Firstly, I would like to explain that when a customer complains that a bank mis-sold a
packaged bank account, we do not expect the bank to change the customers account
automatically to one without fees. This is because customers circumstances can change
and over time and they can come to rely on some of the benefits which packaged accounts
provide. However, we do expect banks to let customers know what is happening and to give
them reasonable choices.
Lloyds has sent us copies of two letters which it wrote to Mrs B during 2018 and it seems to
have met these expectations. The first letter was dated late May 2018 and towards the end it
said, in light of your comments...it is necessary for you to review which account is right for
you.... . The letter included details of Lloyds fee-free accounts (and others) and outlined
how Mrs B could change accounts if she so wished.
Lloyds sent the second letter in July 2018 and amongst other things it said ....we asked you
to review your account....we can see that you have not changed (it).... we assume you are
happy with (it). The letter then went on to say that Mrs B could still  discuss moving to an
account without a monthly fee and outlined how she could get in touch to have that
discussion.
Mrs B has told us that she didnt receive some of Lloyds letters at the time she should have.
But Im satisfied that Lloyds sent the above two letters to the correct address and I
understand that it also sent Mrs B further copies. So, I think that up to July 2018 Lloyds had
treated Mrs B fairly with respect to the second complaint. However, Mrs B continued to call
Lloyds about her concerns, as she was fully entitled to do, and after July 2018 Lloyds seems 
to have made two significant errors; one where it failed to act on a reasonable request from 
Mrs B and one where is seems to have sent her potentially misleading and confusing 
information. I have described these separately.
Lloyds failed to act on a reasonable request from Mrs B
Between May 2018 and October 2020, Mrs B had at least four phone conversations with
Lloyds. I have listened to recordings of these calls. The third was in November 2018 and
seems particularly relevant to this complaint. The call lasted over twenty minutes and Mrs B
mentioned three times that she wanted to close the packaged account.
First, she said: I have tried to close the account, but I havent been able to.
A couple of minutes later she said: I enquired to get the fee-account closed but you 
wouldnt let me.
And a bit later she said: Ive tried and tried and tried to close (the packaged) account but Ive never had the opportunity.
I acknowledge that none of these comments amounts to a direct request or instruction from
Mrs B to switch her account then and there, but I think any reasonable interpretation of them
would conclude that she didnt want the packaged account. To me, she was doing pretty
much what Lloyds letter from July had asked her to do  getting in touch to discuss (and
almost definitely arrange) to move to a fee-free account. However, Lloyds did not
acknowledge this in any way. It did not check or clarify anything with Mrs B or tell her how to
change accounts or arrange to do it for her.
Given the strength, clarity, and repeated nature of Mrs Bs comments, I do not think it was
reasonable for Lloyds to take no action. Had it entered into any meaningful dialogue with Mrs
B, it seems highly likely to me that she would have opted to switch to a fee-free account.
Lloyds sent Mrs B misleading and confusing information
In March 2021, Lloyds wrote a further letter to Mrs B following further exchanges about her
complaints. In this letter, Lloyds referred back to the first of the four phone calls I mentioned
above, from May 2018. The letter said: as part of this phone call you would have been
advised that we would only look to downgrade your account if we agreed with your
complaint. However, I have listened to the recording of the call and it doesnt seem to me
that Lloyds gave such advice. Furthermore, I think the letter misses the main point and is
potentially misleading. It would have been upto Mrs B, not Lloyds, to downgrade her
account.
Of course, if Lloyds had acted fairly in November 2018 then the need for this letter would
probably not have arisen, so its arguable that it makes little significant difference to the main
substance or outcome of this complaint. However, it may well have confused and misled Mrs 
B and delayed matters for no sound reason.
Why I think the compensation on offer is reasonable
At the end of my provisional decision, I said that if I finally upheld Mrs Bs complaint I would 
tell Lloyds to put her into the financial position she would have been in if it had switched her 
to a fee-free account by the end of November 2018. I said it should do this by refunding her 
the relevant fees and adding interest. I said that if Lloyds could show that Mrs B had gained 
financially from any banking services that came with the packaged account, then I would 
allow it to deduct the appropriate amount from the compensation worked out in this way. 
This was the main part of the compensation. It reflected our usual approach to compensation 
in most package bank account complaints that we uphold. 
In this particular case, I said that depending on the responses I received to my provisional 
decision, I may consider adding a small amount to this compensation for the way Lloyds sent 
Mrs B misleading and confusing information.
Lloyds has said that it will pay the fees and interest part of the compensation in the way I 
described in my provisional decision and will add £100 for sending Mrs B misleading 
information. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to put things right for Mrs B. I am not 
going to tell Lloyds increase this amount.
For clarity, I will repeat the full details of the compensation Lloyds should pay to put things 
right.  
Putting things rightAs I have set out above, to put thing right for Mrs B, Lloyds should firstly put her into the 
financial position she would have been in if it had switched her to a fee-free account by the 
end of November 2018.
It should therefore:
refund Mrs B all the monthly fees she paid for the packaged account after 30 
November 2018,
add simple interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year from the date 
Mrs B paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one.
If Lloyds can show that Mrs B gained financially from any banking services that came with
the packaged account (for example, she may have saved some interest if she overdrew the
account during the relevant period), then it may deduct the appropriate amount from the
compensation worked out as above. If Lloyds chooses to do this, then it must set out its
calculation clearly and simply for Mrs B, so she can follow what it has done.
Lloyds should then add the £100 it has already offered to Mrs B to compensate her for the 
misleading information it sent her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mrs Bs second complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. It should now put things right for her by paying her the compensation I have 
described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman