DRN-3151115
The complaint
Mr F complains about Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd. Hes unhappy 
with the level of service hes received from them and would like a refund of the fees hes 
paid.
What happened
Mr F was a client of a firm (B1) that was acquired by Ascot Lloyd in February 2020. He 
complained to them in November 2020 and said, in brief, that hed like a refund of the 
ongoing advice fees hed paid them as they hadnt provided him with any service. 
Ascot Lloyd looked into his concerns and partially upheld the complaint. The thought that he 
wouldnt have been fully aware of their ongoing service proposition prior to a letter they sent 
him on 6 April 2020, so they offered a refund of the fees from the acquisition of B1 on 28 
February 2020 to the time they sent their letter. 
They thought that after this point, Mr F would have been aware of the fees he was paying 
and if he was unhappy, he could have notified them. The pointed out that their adviser had 
been in touch with Mr F in May 2020 and had confirmed that annual reviews would be 
arranged as they came up in the diary. 
Mr F didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service and it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator said, in summary, that he hadnt 
seen any evidence that Ascot Lloyd had reviewed Mr Fs account, sent him any statements 
or provided him with any advice over the seven months theyd been his adviser. He couldnt 
therefore say that Ascot Lloyd provided Mr F with a reasonable level of service and thought 
they should refund the ongoing service fees hed paid them.
Ascot Lloyd didnt accept his findings, they thought that Mr F was fully aware of the move 
from B1 to Ascot Lloyd and the associated fees, given the content of their welcome letter 
and the further contact from their adviser in May 2020. They said Mr F had never made them 
aware that he didnt want to be their client and while they accepted that they were partially at 
fault for not contacting him directly, they thought he should take some responsibility. 
However, they offered to refund 50% of the ongoing advice fees in an attempt to resolve the 
complaint. 
The investigator didnt think the proposed resolution was fair. He thought that in the absence 
of any evidence to support any work being done then it was reasonable to refund all the 
related fees. Ascot Lloyd didnt agree, and as theres been no agreement the case has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld. Ascot Lloyd sent Mr 
F an introductory letter in April 2020 letting him know who his new adviser would be. It also 
said that the adviser would be in touch to arrange an introductory meeting in order to 
understand Mr Fs plans. The letter also said that Mr F would receive their Foundation 
service as this was equivalent to what he was previously receiving. They also confirmed 
there wouldnt be any change to the ongoing advice fee he was paying. 
Mr F then received an introductory email from a new adviser in May 2020 explaining his 
previous adviser had left. The email in May said:
With regards the way forward, you should receive a formal letter in due course but if you 
would like a quick chat on the telephone in the meantime my number is ************. We can 
make arrangements via email at a certain time if you would like to talk or you can just call 
me. I would be glad to speak to you.  I will arrange annual reviews with you 
as they come up in the diary anyway so if I do not hear from you I will get in touch in due 
course.  
There was no further contact from the adviser and theres no evidence that the formal letter 
was ever sent or that a meeting was arranged. Ascot Lloyd have said they spoke to Mr Fs 
wife in June 2020 and tried to arrange a meeting, but it was declined. Mr F has disputed this 
and said that at that time his wife was recovering from throat surgery and wasnt able to 
speak. The details on the call note Ascot Lloyd have provided - Mrs Fs date of birth and 
phone number - are incorrect, so Im not persuaded that any contact was made with Mrs F at 
that time.
Ascot Lloyd have said that a meeting was due to take place in September, but they received 
notification on 16 September that Mr F was no longer their client. I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that Mr F would have needed some reasonable prior notification of 
the meeting. However, I cant see that there was any attempt to contact him to arrange a 
meeting. 
At the point they received the notification, there were only 10 working days left in September 
for Ascot Lloyd to contact Mr F and arrange and hold a meeting. While it was possible that a 
meeting could have arranged, it doesnt seem very likely that it would have been. Given the 
lack of contact from Ascot Lloyd since the email they sent in May - no letters, emails, calls or 
any other correspondence - Im not persuaded that a meeting would have taken place in 
September if Mr F had remained their client.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think Ascot Lloyd provided Mr F with the level 
of service the fees they were charging him justified. Its important to note that the economic 
climate in 2020 was quite volatile due to the Coronavirus pandemic, so I think it would have 
been important to provide advice and support to the new customers that theyd taken on 
following the acquisition. I cant see that this happened, so I think its fair and reasonable that 
they refund Mr F all the ongoing advice fees he paid them.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should refund 
Mr F any ongoing advice fees he paid them, less any fees theyve already refunded. They 
should also pay 8% simple interest on the amounts refunded from the date they were initially 
paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint. Capital Professional Limited trading as 
Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr F redress as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman