DRN-2019841
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way her motor insurance provider, Ageas Insurance Limited 
(Ageas), valued her car when she made a claim against her policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ws car was damaged in an incident in January 2020. She raised her claim with Ageas, 
who arranged for an engineer to look at the car. The engineer said the car was a total loss  
it would cost more to repair than the car was worth. 
The engineers report valued the car at £15,450 before the incident. Ageas paid slightly more 
than this, £15,815 to settle Mrs Ws claim. But Mrs W felt this wasnt the right amount. She 
said that to buy a similar car from a franchised dealer would cost more like £17,000 to 
£18,000. So she felt Ageas should give her that much instead. 
Ageas compared their offer with prices for similar vehicles shown in three trade guides. They 
said their offer was reasonable because it was in line with those. 
Mrs W brought the complaint to us. Our investigator checked four trade guides and found 
that the settlement Ageas offered was indeed in line with what the guides said the market 
retail value of the car was. As such, he found Ageass offer was fair. 
Mrs W didnt agree, pointing out that shed had to pay roughly £1,500 to meet a shortfall in 
paying off the finance shed used to buy the car. She felt that since franchise dealers were 
selling similar cars for more than Ageas had offered, their offer must be wrong. 
The matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mrs W is disappointed the money shell get from her claim will leave 
her with such a large shortfall on the cars finance, I find that Ageas have done enough to 
fulfil their agreement with her. Ill briefly explain the key points, although my reasoning is the 
same as our investigator already explained.
The starting point for deciding whats fair and reasonable here is to look at the agreement 
Ageas had with Mrs W. The policy terms said Ageas could decide whether to repair a car or 
pay a cash amount equal to the loss or damage. In this case, Ageas decided the car was a 
total loss. The policy said this meant Ageas would settle the claim for the market value of the 
car immediately before the incident. This would reflect the cost of replacing it with one of a 
similar age, type and condition. The policy also said Ageas would have an engineer inspect 
and assess the market value of the car. 
Thats what Ageas said theyd do, and looking at the facts of the case, thats what they 
ultimately did. Looking at the circumstances of Mrs Ws claim, I think it was fair for Ageas to 
apply the terms of the policy how they were written and agreed when the policy began. 
Looking at Ageass valuation, its in line with the prices in four separate trade guides. The 
guide prices are also broadly in agreement with each other  having a relatively short range 
between £14,285 and £15,990. That agreement suggests the value is accurate. Since 
Ageass settlement offer was at the higher end of the range, I find it was reasonable for them 
to think their offer was fair.
Mrs W has seen cars like hers advertised for more than the average prices given by the 
guides. But valuing a car is not an exact science. The guides are informed by national 
research and analysis of car sales to work out the likely selling price of a vehicle. I give this 
more weight than looking at a small sample of adverts for cars, as these can be set with 
negotiation in mind, and may not be the final sale price of the car.
I recognise Mrs W may feel shell have greater peace of mind buying a replacement car 
somewhere she trusts or has an established connection with. But thats her choice to make, 
in the knowledge that doing so may see her pay more than if she bought elsewhere. Its not 
fair to ask Ageas to pay Mrs W more to fund that choice. The policy said the market value 
would be considered, and thats been done in a reasonable way here.
My final decision
Although its not the outcome I know Mrs W was hoping for, for the reasons above Im not 
upholding her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman
