DRN-3515574
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the information given to him by Interactive Investor Services 
Limited (II) in relation to carrying out trades on his account. He says he has lost out 
financially as a result.
What happened
Mr H could take advantage of two trading services with II  manual trading and its 
commission free Regular Investment Service. Based on information given to him by II he 
carried out some trades but because of the delay in settlement, and the amount of sale 
proceeds received, this impacted on the money available and timing for his Regular 
Investment. 
Mr H wasnt happy about the information he had been given prior to him carrying out the 
trades, the trading itself, the execution, the amount of proceeds and his inability to reinvest 
all of those proceeds via the Regular Investment Service. He complained to II. In its 
response to his complaint on 5 January 2022 it said;
Mr H had been misinformed about the cut off times for fund orders. This information 
was available in the Key Information Document (KID) for any fund which Mr H could 
check prior to placing any trade.
Mr H had been told that he could trade with unsettled/uncleared cash so his Regular 
Investing would still execute. This was incorrect. For Regular Investing the cash had 
to be settled so it upheld this element of Mr Hs complaint.
It explained that the prices Mr H had seen when he placed his orders online were 
indicative prices and from the last valuation point of the funds. It wasnt the price     
Mr H would receive. There had been no error in handling Mr Hs order. 
To compensate Mr H for the errors, he was credited with four Trading Credits equal 
to an amount of £31.96 to cover the commission of placing the four unexecuted 
Regular Investment preferences from December 2021. It also credited his Trading 
Account with £50 for the misinformation and time spent on the matter. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied so II responded again to his complaint on 7 February 2022 it said;
Mr H had been given incorrect information about settlement timings for fund trades 
during a call with II on 30 November 2021. It apologised for this, upheld this element 
of Mr Hs complaint, and credited his trading account with £50. 
It explained the process of trading in a fund. Cash pending settlement could be used 
for manual fund trading but not for trading in Regular Investment trades.
The prices Mr H was given for the sales were indicative prices. He received the 
actual prices when the funds were valued the following day. There was no error on 
IIs part.
It couldnt chase fund managers, amend fund orders once taken or pre-empt the 
value of the trade prior to completion.
Regular Investment trading continued throughout the trading day and equities were 
traded at Market Best prices. Those trades were commission free but if Mr H wanted 
to trade manually, he would be charged commission. This element of Mr Hs 
complaint was not upheld. 
Mr H said he couldnt amend the Regular Investment section of his account online 
because he received a repeat error message. II said it couldnt replicate the message 
as it would have to originate from Mr Hs account, but suggested Mr H call its 
Customer Service Team if necessary. 
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome to his complaint and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think II needed to do 
anything more. He said;
II had acted within its terms of service that Mr H had agreed to. The account was an 
execution only account and it was for Mr H to have been aware of any cleared funds 
and trading risks he was taking. The prices for the unit trusts were showing as 
indicative only and could not be relied upon as the figure for the cleared funds. The 
fact that Mr H could receive a lower price was a risk for him to assume. Mr H was 
warned about the differing settlement periods between funds and that the Regular 
Investing service only worked with cleared funds. It wasnt unusual for some funds 
pricing to take longer than others. 
It was unfortunate that Mr Hs sales didnt settle as quickly as he had anticipated and 
he had to wait a further two days before he could reinvest but, if necessary, Mr H 
could have placed a manual trade. The investigator couldnt see any evidence of a 
trade pricing error or settlement period error for Mr Hs trades.
It was unfortunate Mr H had been misinformed on 30 November about the settlement 
dates and cut-off times for fund trades. That information did apply to many funds but 
not all the funds Mr H wanted to trade in. While the information Mr H had been given 
was incorrect, that information was correctly given in its terms, was on its website 
and given in other documentation that was available to Mr H prior to him placing a 
trade. It was for him to have been aware of the pricing and settlement risk 
irrespective of the misinformation given over the phone.
IIs response to the complaint and the redress paid was fair and reasonable and the 
investigator didnt think II needed to do anything more. IIs terms made it clear how 
Mr Hs account would operate, and it was for him to adjust his trading values and 
settlement periods accordingly. All the orders had been executed in line with IIs 
terms. 
The account was an execution only account and it was for Mr H to manage his 
account. He had accepted and was bound by IIs terms of service and was warned 
that II wouldnt accept responsibility for any loss caused by insufficient cleared funds 
for the Regular Investment Service. The investigator couldnt see any evidence of an 
error or breach of IIs terms of service. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied and requested that the complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a decision. 
He provided some further comment for my consideration; 
He questioned how II cannot be held responsible for the administrative 
misinformation he had relied upon. 
He said the settlement period for the trades were not stated in the KID he consulted. 
He was specifically advised by II that he would be able to trade with unsettled funds 
for the Regular Investing Service. He wasnt aware that the price showing on the screen was indicative. It wasnt 
reasonable to expect him to accept a reduced value without any warning. If he had 
known this, he wouldnt have proceeded with the sales and should have been given 
the opportunity to cancel.
Mr H referred to one of the sales carried out and questioned where the shortfall of 
£2,320.29 had gone and that fees and charges incurred had never been quantified. 
The process wasnt transparent, and the sale process was dubious bearing in mind II 
and the fund manager had discretion over the final amount received. 
II should have rejected the order as the final amount was significantly less than the 
original value of the fund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The information given about the timings of trade
On 30 November 2021 Mr H called II to ask about the settlement of potential fund trades and 
the cut off time to place an order. He was told that fund trades settle in one to two working 
days and the cut off time to place an order was 11.15am. 
A few weeks later on 13 December Mr H carried out several sales including the Baillie 
Gifford Managed Fund, the HSBC Global Strategy Fund and Witan Investment Trust. He 
wanted to have the sale proceeds of those funds available for reinvestment via the Regular 
Investing service which was to take place on Wednesday 15 December.  
The delays in settlement of the trades had an impact on Mr Hs ability to reinvest the funds. 
The sale of Witan Investment Trust was to settle on 15 December, but those proceeds could 
be used for reinvestment immediately even though the trade itself wouldnt settle until later. 
The HSBC Global Strategy Fund settled on 16 December and Baillie Gifford Managed Fund 
didnt settle until 17 December.
II has acknowledged the information Mr H was given during the phone call about the cut off 
time for placing the unit trust orders was incorrect as was the settlement dates. II apologised 
for its error and paid Mr H £50 in acknowledgement of this. Im satisfied that amount is a fair 
reflection to compensate for the misinformation.
While II has accepted and acknowledged it made an error in the information it gave Mr H, I 
have gone on to consider the impact of the delays in settlement.
The Monthly Regular Investing service
This is a commission free service offered by II where settled cash on a customers account is 
invested on a regular basis. Customers can set up monthly trades in advance for either the 
first or the third Wednesday of every month. When trading takes place, the orders are 
executed throughout the day at Market Best by its Trading Team. If a customer wishes to, 
they can manually place an order themselves outside of this service, but that trade would 
incur a commission charge. 
Only cleared funds can be used for the Regular Investing service whereas for manual 
trading a customer can use non cleared cash  cash awaiting settlement from a sale. For the Regular Investing service, cleared cash is taken from the customers account at midnight on 
the trading day. Doing this prevents the customer from using that cleared cash for any 
manual trading during the day or duplicating trades. I know Mr H doesnt agree that it should 
work this way but II is entitled to manage its own business and services as it chooses. And 
even if I disagreed with how the service worked, I am not in the position to ask II to change 
the terms of the service as that is its own business decision. 
Under the Regular Investment Service section of IIs terms of service it says;
5.6 We will carry out your Regular Investment Instruction on the Purchase Date 
by carrying out a Purchase for an amount not more than the Purchase 
Consideration, provided that there are sufficient Cleared Funds in your 
Account and provided that the Purchase price (e.g. share price) of the 
Regular Investment does not exceed the amount of your Regular Investment 
Value. [my emphasis].
In Mr Hs case he wanted to sell his investments and then to reinvest the sale proceeds. He 
says he was prevented from doing so via the Regular Investing service as not all of the cash 
from the sales was cleared cash and so wasnt available for reinvestment. Mr H is saying 
that it was the misinformation given over the phone that caused this. He was given the 
impression that the cash would be cleared by the time the Regular Investment was carried 
out on 15 December. 
While I accept that Mr H was misinformed when he spoke with II, I also have to acknowledge 
that Mr Hs account was an execution only account which meant that the management of his 
account was solely his responsibility. Mr H has said he was reliant upon the advice he was 
given to make his investment decision. But I dont think Mr H was given advice but he was 
given information  albeit that proving to be incorrect. And I dont think it unreasonable to 
conclude that by Mr H being the holder of an execution only account to think that he should 
reasonably have been aware of how trading in funds such as the ones he held and was 
selling  rather than say stock market investments  worked. The terms of service refer to 
this;
Our service is execution-only, which means we will not provide you with investment 
advice or assess suitability of any investments you make. All investment decisions 
are your own. You should not trade with us unless you are comfortable making your 
own investment decisions and you understand the nature of the products and 
services and the extent to which they expose you to financial risk.
I think the reference to financial risk isnt limited to the risk implicit in investing itself. I 
consider it includes all risks associated with investment and pertinent to this complaint, such 
as the practicalities of trading, being aware of cut off times for trading in funds etc. I also 
note under the Provision of Information section of the terms of service it says;
7.1 Any news, prices, opinions and other information we may provide to you 
(Information) is provided solely to enable you to make your own investment 
decision and does not constitute a personal investment recommendation or 
personalised advice.
So while I have sympathy for the position Mr H found himself in, overall and taking all of the 
above into account I dont find that II is responsible that all of the sale proceeds of the trades 
carried out on 13 December werent cleared funds for the Regular Investing service which 
took place on 15 December. 
And in any event, its clear that Mr H could have placed manual trades when those funds did 
become cleared funds in the following few days  on 16 and 17 December in line with IIs terms. I note that II has already credited Mr Hs account with four Trading Credits equal to an 
amount of £31.96 to cover the commission of placing the unexecuted Regular Investment 
preferences from December.  
With regard to placing manual orders IIs terms of service say;
3.6 By placing an order for the purchase of investments, you agree that you will 
have sufficient Cleared Funds in your Account on the date when you are 
required to make the payment to settle the trade. We may accept the order 
even if there are not sufficient Cleared Funds at the point of placing the trade. 
Cleared Funds must be available in order to effect and settle any trade.
This term makes clear that by a customer placing an order themselves  a manual trade  
they can do so even if there are insufficient cleared funds at the time of the order. But the 
customer must have cleared funds available upon the date of settlement of the trade. Stock 
market settlement dates are usually T+2  the trade date plus two working days. Witan 
Investment Trust is a stock market investment so settled two days after the trade. But for 
other types of investments, including unit trust transactions which take place via the fund 
manager rather than the stock market, these settlement dates can vary but usually up to 
around four days which is what happened for Mr Hs trades.  
IIs service allowed Mr H to place manual trades for any trades that couldnt take place 
during the December 15 Regular Investing service because of lack of cleared funds. So, I 
cant see he was prevented from carrying out those trades as a result of IIs actions, or 
inactions, as he could use the unsettled funds on his account to place the trades manually. 
The trades and sale proceeds
Mr H has said hes not happy with the sales proceeds received from the funds compared to 
what he thought he would be receiving. He said that when he had previously bought the 
funds there was a live price which varied throughout the day and he was quoted a price 
there and then. 
However, this isnt correct, and I think Mr H may be referring to equity/stock market 
investments such as for the Witan Investment Trust which he also traded. Witan Investment 
Trust, like the unit trusts Mr H was trading in, is a collective investment, but is quoted on the 
stock market and is the reason why Mr H would receive live quotes throughout the day 
compared to the once a day valuation point for a unit trust. 
As a background to trading in unit trusts, in general they are priced using forward pricing. 
This means that the customer placing an order will not know the exact price they will receive 
or pay. The only price that is known for sure is the price that was established at the previous 
valuation point  usually the previous day. This is because the prices of unit trusts are 
generally valued at the end of market close globally, hence their prices will only be available 
sometime after the date a customer places a trade. And the price of the fund at the next 
valuation point may be higher or lower than the previous  and known  valuation point.
As unit trusts are collective investments, the valuation would depend upon on the net asset 
value of the underlying assets held within that unit trust. And depending on what those 
assets are, they will vary in value on a daily basis, but the value of the underlying assets and 
the fund overall will be fixed at the next valuation point of the fund. Fund managers dont 
have discretion over the valuation of a fund. This will be calculated according to regulatory 
standards and after taking account of the value of the underlying assets and allowable costs 
or charges etc. For unit trusts, to be able to trade at the next valuation point the orders need to be placed 
with the fund manager by a certain time of day  usually sometime in the morning. Any 
trades prior to that cut off point will receive the price at the next valuation point. Any orders 
received after that cut off point would be rolled over and placed the next day. And 
businesses placing those trade orders  such as II  would usually have its own cut off point 
some time prior to the fund managers cut off point to allow it to collate the buy and sell 
orders received for that fund and then to place the actual trades with the fund manager. 
Mr H has said that he couldnt find the cut off times on the KIDs as advised by II. But even if 
that was the case such information is very easily accessible from various sources and 
websites including from the fund manager of the particular fund. It was Mr Hs responsibility 
to make himself aware of the relevant times. 
With reference to Orders in IIs terms of service it corresponds with what I have said above. 
It says;
3.10.5 Units in a collective investment schemes are normally traded on a forward 
price basis. This means a price calculated by reference to the valuation point 
which occurs after the unit trust managers agreement to sell or redeem the 
units in question;
This is a very common and standardised method for pricing unit trusts and similar collective 
investments. And as mentioned above, settlement periods for different unit trusts can vary. 
And I dont agree with Mr Hs comments that II should have cancelled the trades knowing 
there was a shortfall in the valuation point of the fund compared to the previous valuation 
point. Any difference from one valuation point to the next  whether higher or lower  is as a 
result of the varying values of the underlying assets. So, I cant agree that II or the fund 
manager has done anything unusual, suspicious or dubious when carrying out the trades. 
And I cant agree that Mr H has been cheated or robbed by IIs selling process. The trades 
proceeded as I would expect to see for such assets. And Mr Hs account is an execution 
one. So, it is solely his responsibility to manage his account and understand how it works. 
And this would include the practicalities of trading in equities and funds alike. 
Mr H has given the example of one of his sales  the amount received was £96,479.71 
compared to the original fund value of £98,800  a shortfall of £2,320.29. Mr H says, the 
initial value of my sold funds has simply vanished through the sales process. Mr H has 
requested that all of the sales he carried out be investigated. But I wont be doing that. But I 
hope what I have said above about how funds trade has explained this difference in 
valuations to Mr H. I also cant see that II has had the opportunity to address that point which 
it should be allowed to before this service considers it. I am sorry that Mr H didnt receive the 
amount he was expecting from the sale of the fund. But as I have explained above, the 
reduction in value of the units from one valuation point to the next is one of the risks and 
vagaries evident in trading in investments. 
Mr H has referred to II relying upon its terms of service and how it has used those. But II is 
able to rely on those terms of service and I dont find that it has been unfair or unreasonable 
in doing so. Both parties to the relationship agreed to those terms of service at the outset. 
Overall, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I wont be asking II to do anything further. I think 
the amount it has so far paid to resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable under the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. I am of the opinion that the account was 
execution only and it was for Mr H to acquaint himself with how that worked and in particular 
how fund trades are carried out. II carried out those trades as I would have expected it to. Mr H has put a lot of time and effort into bringing his complaint and I thank him for that. I 
know he feels strongly about his complaint and will no doubt be disappointed with the 
outcome. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the conclusion 
that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman