DRN-2777743
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that QBE UK Limited (QBE) damaged some of her furniture when it 
moved it during a claim made under a commercial insurance policy.
Any references to QBE include companies working on its behalf to deal with the claim.
  
What happened
As part of dealing with an insurance claim, QBE arranged for Miss M to move to alternative 
accommodation. This required Miss M to move from her home to Property A and, a few 
months later, from there to Property B. Miss M said that QBEs moving company damaged 
her furniture during both moves.
Miss M complained to QBE about the damage. When QBE replied it didnt uphold the 
complaint as it said there wasnt any evidence to show that the furniture had been damaged 
during the move. However, QBE said that the moving company had offered £500 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Miss M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
thought it was more likely than not that the furniture hadnt been damaged during the move.
As Miss M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
During the first move, from Miss Ms home to Property A, Miss M said that a chest of 
drawers was damaged. During the second move, from Property A to Property B, Miss M said 
that a number of items were damaged. These were a wardrobe, a table, a bin and the 
washing machine. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was damage to these items, but 
the removals company said the damage was there before the move.
Ive looked at the reasons given by QBE for not upholding the complaint, which was that 
Miss M hadnt substantiated that the damage had happened. This seemed to put the onus 
on Miss M to show the pre-move condition of each item. However, I dont think that it was for 
Miss M to show this. She wasnt responsible for moving the items or for showing that the 
items that were moved remained in the same condition on their arrival at the new property. 
That was for QBE to do.
For both moves, there was no inventory of the items that were moved. For the first move, the 
job form included a statement for the customer to sign when the move was complete to 
confirm that they were satisfied that all items had been handled with care, delivered and 
there was no noticeable damage. Miss M signed the form and added the words Not yet 
checked, damage to tall drawers. For the second move, Miss M didnt sign the section of 
the job form about the move being satisfactory, but did sign other parts, such as for receipt 
of the keys. 
I asked QBE for more information about the moving process. The removals company 
provided comments in response. It said that the client, in this case Miss M, would be asked 
over the phone to provide a list of items to be moved. But the firm wouldnt inventory items 
that were being moved the same day to an alternative address. It said that the items were 
never out of the customers possession and any item that the customer wanted to locate 
could only be at one of two properties, both of which were always accessible to the 
customer. 
The removals firm also said that any items that had obvious or significant pre-existing 
damage would be noted, reported to office staff and noted in the comments section of the 
job sheet. This didnt include a record of fair wear and tear, as this would require evaluating 
the age of every item. It said some customers would also find it offensive to have each of 
their items evaluated in this way, so the firm only notes obvious or significant damage. The 
removals firm also said that if a customer didnt want to sign the job sheet, it couldnt force 
them to do so.
If QBE wanted to follow that process that was its choice. But, in my view, it didnt then mean 
that Miss M was responsible for proving that there was no damage before the move. Miss M 
did what was required of her. For the first move, Miss M noted the damage she had found 
when she signed off the form. For the second move, she didnt sign off the form to say that 
the move had been satisfactory. Miss M therefore raised her concerns at the earliest 
opportunity and followed this up with QBE shortly after.
I accept that, due to the lack of records about the condition of the items before the move, it is 
difficult to know whether the damage was caused by the removals firm, as well as the 
strongly held views of each party. But in the absence of evidence it was caused by some 
other means, I currently intend to say that QBE must repair or replace the damaged items. 
Ive also considered whether QBE should pay Miss M compensation, but I dont currently 
intend to do so because I think the £500 already offered as a gesture of goodwill adequately 
reflects this distress and inconvenience caused by the way the move was dealt with. But 
QBE should ensure that this money has been paid to Miss M and arrange for the payment to 
be made if this hasnt already happened.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 10 April 2021.
QBE didnt provide any comments.
Miss M asked me to confirm whether any pre-existing damage had been noted by the 
movers. She also said QBE hadnt provided her with a copy of a phone call and said she 
hadnt received the £500 goodwill payment as she hadnt accepted it.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision that the complaint is upheld 
and for the reason previously given.
In response to the points Miss M raised, I didnt see any evidence that showed pre-existing 
damage had been noted. The phone call was requested under a subject access request. It 
would be better to raise concerns about whether QBE should have provided the phone call 
with the Information Commissioners Office, rather than this service.
  Putting things right
As a result, QBE should repair or replace the damaged items and pay Miss M the £500 
previously offered.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require QBE UK Limited to:
Repair or replace the damaged items.
Pay Miss M the £500 previously offered, if this hasnt already happened.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman