DRN-2947565
The complaint
Mrs K complains that BUPA Insurance Limited wont refund the premiums she paid for a 
personal private dental insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs K holds a personal private dental insurance policy. Her policy year ran from 29 May until 
the 28 May of the following year. During each policy year, Mrs M was entitled to various 
dental benefits, up to a specified limit, including two dental check-ups and hygiene 
treatments. She was scheduled for a check-up and hygiene treatment in mid-May 2020.
However, on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the UK government as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This led to the closure of NHS and private dentists to 
prevent the virus spreading. So Mrs Ks dentist cancelled her appointment and asked her to 
reschedule the appointment later in the year.
Mrs K got in touch with BUPA to ask whether shed be entitled to any refund of premiums, 
due to being unable to make use of her full policy entitlements before her policy expired. 
BUPA initially told Mrs K that it was looking into possible rebate options for dental 
policyholders. It did tell her that it was able to provide emergency dental treatment if 
necessary. However, it ultimately decided not to offer any policy rebates for its dental 
policies. And so it didnt offer Mrs K any premium refund.
Mrs K was unhappy with BUPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our senior investigator didnt think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
terms of Mrs Ks policy didnt entitle her to any premium refund if the policy benefits werent 
used. He considered the closure of dental practices was outside of BUPAs control and he 
felt it was still covering the risk of claims if Mrs K had needed emergency treatment. He 
didnt think BUPA was responsible for any misinformation she said shed been given by her 
dental practice. And as Mrs K hadnt paid upfront for her cancelled appointment, he didnt 
think she was out of pocket.
Mrs K disagreed. She said the reality was that the Covid-19 pandemic had meant that clinic 
doors were locked. She felt she was being held accountable for something outside of her 
control.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, I dont think BUPA has treated her 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. 
BUPA provided cover under Mrs Ks private dental insurance policy from 29 May 2019 to 28 
May 2020 and Mrs K would have been able to avail of the full benefits provided by the policy 
for a significant proportion of the policy year. BUPA is entitled to retain the premium it 
charged to cover the risk of Mrs K making a claim during the policy year. Im also aware that 
Mrs K was able to undergo a check-up and hygiene treatment in December 2019, so its 
clear she did make a successful claim on the policy during the policy year. I wouldnt usually 
expect an insurer to refund any element of the premium in any circumstance where a 
successful claim has been made. 
Theres no term in Mrs Ks contract with BUPA which allows her to obtain a refund if dental 
practices close. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Mrs K at the outset that a rebate wasnt 
available to her at that point and that it was still considering its options with regard to dental 
policyholders. I also think it was fair and reasonable for BUPA to ultimately conclude that it 
wasnt prepared to offer a refund of premiums for its dental customers. I think this was a 
commercial decision which BUPA was legitimately entitled to make. And from what I know, 
Im satisfied BUPA has treated all of its dental insurance policyholders in the same way. So 
Im satisfied it didnt single Mrs K out unfairly.
I dont think its accurate to say Mrs Ks policy was unusable following the closure of dental 
practices. BUPA was offering its policyholders the chance to use its own dentists for 
emergencies or remote dental consultations. And I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to 
refund premiums if dental treatment was unavailable due to circumstances outside of its 
control. Im satisfied the closure of private and NHS dental practices due to government 
restrictions between 23 March and 8 June 2020 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was 
outside of BUPAs control.
Mrs K told the investigator that her dental practice had said shed be entitled to a refund. But 
I cant fairly hold BUPA Insurance Limited responsible for any misinformation Mrs Ks dentist 
may have given her. Its open to her to complain directly to the dentist if she wants to do so. 
And as Mrs K didnt pay for her planned appointment upfront, I agree that she isnt out of 
pocket following its cancellation.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Ks situation, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case to require BUPA to refund any premiums to her.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman