DRN-3328182
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that he cant manage his HomeCare accounts online, largely provided by 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr L is unhappy that over the last two years, hes not been able to access 
information about his accounts or book engineers online. Instead, hes had to do this 
over the phone, taking up lots of his time. 
British Gas acknowledged the fault and said they dont know when it will be fixed. 
They paid Mr L £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L should be able to access his HomeCare accounts online. British Gas note that 
its not a contractual benefit  but I dont think that means theyve not done 
something wrong. Looking at their website, online access is a feature they describe  
theres even a video explaining the benefits. 
I cant simply direct British Gas to put things right because I dont know if and by 
when that will be possible. But I can look at the impact its caused Mr L up to the 
point British Gas responded to his complaint. 
Mr L said this has caused him lots of problems, including accessing documents and 
booking appointments. Having read British Gass complaint notes going back to June 
2020, it seems the appointments Mr L needed were for Gas Safety checks, and the 
documents he wanted to access were the Gas Safety Certificates. As Ive explained 
in a separate decision, I dont have the power to look into and, therefore, award 
compensation for that.
I accept this is likely to have caused him some issues relating to the insurance 
products too (so the cover including an annual service)  for example, when he 
needs to see his policy documents. But it seems to me that the driving force of Mr Ls 
inconvenience relates to the Gas Safety Check and Certificate products. 
With that in mind, I think British Gas has made a fair offer here. They paid Mr L £50 
compensation. And they were upfront with Mr L that they dont know when this issue 
will be fixed. That meant that Mr L couldve looked elsewhere at renewal for cover 
that provides the online access he needs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman