DRN-3381682
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) allowed a
payment to leave his account which took him into an unarranged overdraft.
What happened
On 10 August 2021 Mr C was fined by a hotel hed recently been a guest at. £250 was
debited from his Cashplus account to cover the cost of this fine and took him into an
unarranged overdraft of £215. Mr C didnt believe Cashplus shouldve allowed the payment
to go through.
Mr C contacted Cashplus after the payment was taken to explain he felt it was unauthorised.
He said the hotel hadnt made him sufficiently aware a fine might apply, his guest shouldve
been the one to incur it and he didnt agree with the amount charged. He also didnt feel
Cashplus shouldve allowed him to go into an unarranged overdraft.
When Mr C contacted Cashplus to dispute the payment, it confirmed it could raise a
chargeback, but the quickest solution would be for Mr C to contact the merchant  the hotel
 directly to dispute it. Mr C did this and on 19 August 2021 received a refund directly from
the hotel.
I issued my provisional decision earlier this year. I said that:
Mr C has provided a lot of information around his complaint and I want to assure him I have
considered everything hes said very carefully. But when looking at his complaint, my role is
to consider the individual circumstances of this case. So although I have carefully
considered his requests and comments around what hed like my decision to include, Ill only
be responding to what I think are the key parts of this complaint.
No discourtesy is intended by this, this simply reflects the nature of our service and my role,
which is to consider each complaint on its individual merit rather than provide general
information about how businesses operate.
Was Mr Cs payment authorised?
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). I
wont quote them directly here, but they broadly set out that where a payment has been
made in the form and following the procedure thats been agreed within the terms and
conditions of an account, the payment has been authorised.
The relevant information around how payments from Mr Cs Cashplus account are
authorised can be found under section 8.8 of the terms and conditions he accepted when he
opened the account. They set out that where card details have been provided in line with the
merchants instructions, the payment will be treated as authorised. Cashplus has shown me
Mr Cs card details were provided when making payment to the hotel, and he hasnt disputed
he did this. So the agreed form and procedure has been followed and as a starting point
Cashplus was correct in treating the payment as authorised.
Mr C has said he wasnt made aware he might be fined during his stay. Broadly hes
explained that the warnings he was given were unclear. So he doesnt feel he did give
authorisation for any further payment to be taken by the hotel.
Ive considered Mr Cs testimony carefully and taken this into account. But, I can see that in
each description for each room on its website it states its a non-smoking hotel, and guests
will be fined £250 for violation. And, when going through the booking process, where
personal details need to be provided it states no smoking £1,000 fine. Given this, I think its
likely Mr C was given sufficient warning he could be fined by the hotel. So Im satisfied the
possibility of further money being taken from his account by the hotel is something he
agreed to when he provided his card details.
I accept Mr Cs point that he wasnt the person who broke the hotel rules, it was his guest.
But this is an issue with hotels decision to take the payment from him, not an issue of
authorisation between him and Cashplus. Overall, Im satisfied the payment was authorised
and Cashplus was correct in treating it as such.
Did Cashplus act unfairly in allowing Mr C to go into an unarranged overdraft?
Mr C has said hes never agreed to any borrowing from Cashplus, so it shouldnt have lent to
him by allowing him an overdraft on his account. But the terms and conditions of Mr Cs
account set out that there are occasions when an unarranged overdraft will be provided by
Cashplus. And by authorising a payment for a greater amount than the amount available in
the account, Im satisfied Mr C did effectively ask Cashplus to lend to him.
I understand Mr C perhaps wasnt expecting this to be the case and he hadnt realised this
could happen. Not least because from what hes said he didnt expect the hotel to charge
him again. So I do appreciate this wouldve been a shock. But, Im satisfied the terms and
conditions of his account did allow Cashplus to consider the payment a request for an
overdraft. And because it wasnt agreed in advance, it was an unarranged overdraft.
I thought about Cashplus decision to allow the unarranged overdraft on this occasion, and
overall, I dont think this was irresponsible or unreasonable. In the six months leading up to
the payment in question Mr C managed his account well and had funds available in the
account to cover his spending. On one occasion  a few weeks before the hotel fine  he
went into an overdraft by around £29 and this was repaid quickly.
Overall I dont think Cashplus acted unreasonably in providing Mr C with an unarranged
overdraft.
Was Cashplus acting unfairly by asking Mr C to raise the matter with the hotel?
Mr C disputed the payment after it was made. He said the payment was unauthorised, but
Cashplus correctly informed him the payment wasnt unauthorised  hed authorised the
hotel to take payment in line with its terms and conditions. But it was a disputed payment as
Mr C didnt agree with the terms under which the payment had been taken. So I think
Cashplus was correct in proceeding on the basis the payment was disputed rather than
unauthorised.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr C and Cashplus and Ive heard he was then given the
option to raise a chargeback but this could take a minimum of 45 days. Cashplus confirmed
it would look into things for Mr C. But, it also let him know, as I wouldve expected, the
quickest option would likely be to raise the dispute directly with the merchant (the hotel).This information was correct, and I wouldve expected Cashplus to provide it so Mr C could
make an informed choice about what he wanted to do  contact the hotel directly or wait for
the outcome of a chargeback. I can see he didnt complete the dispute form provided by
Cashplus, and instead raised the dispute with the hotel, which refunded the money nine
days later. So, raising the matter with the merchant directly likely did result in a quicker
resolution. I dont think Cashplus made any errors in dealing with Mr Cs query.
Mr C has said he was unhappy with the dispute form Cashplus asked him to fill out. I dont
think its unreasonable Cashplus asked Mr C to complete the form and I dont think Mr C has
provided any reason he was unable to complete it or that this form prevented him from
raising a dispute. And, ultimately, he didnt need to raise a dispute because he resolved the
matter with the hotel.
Has Cashplus provided insufficient customer service?
Mr C has explained when he called Cashplus about his complaint he had to wait for 20
minutes to speak to an advisor which he finds unacceptable. Hes also explained after he
waited to speak to someone his call was cut off and he thinks someone shouldve called him
back.
I have no doubt this wouldve been frustrating for Mr C. But sometimes waiting times are
longer than expected for any number of reasons with many different businesses besides
Cashplus. I dont have details of the call Mr C has said was cut off so its not clear why
someone didnt call him back, but again, I can see this wouldve been frustrating.
Whilst it mightve been better customer service to call him back if this wouldve been
possible, I dont think Cashplus has acted unreasonably in not doing this. Ultimately Mr C
was able to speak to someone, was provided adequate assistance and was given correct
advice. Unfortunately, this kind of inconvenience can be a part of everyday life. Overall, I
havent found the customer service he received was unreasonable or insufficient enough to
warrant compensation.
I can see this situation has been upsetting for Mr C and I recognise how strongly he feels
about what has happened. But overall, I havent found Cashplus has acted unfairly in this
case so I havent asked it to do anything further.
Cashplus responded and confirmed it had no further comments. Mr C didnt accept my 
findings. In summary he said that:
He didnt think it made sense that Cashplus and his other bank had a different way of 
doing things. He wanted clarification around what exactly Cashplus was obliged to do 
when the hotel tried to take the payment and further information around where its set 
out what its actions should be in situations like this one. Especially as he didnt 
authorise the payment with a signature, it was authorised in the hotels terms and 
conditions.
He remained unhappy with the arbitrary amount the hotel had fined him and he said it 
had implied his guest had committed a crime. 
He felt he should be paid compensation for Cashplus wasting his time and the 
obstructions it placed in his way when he was trying to make his complaint.
He didnt want the final decision to be issued until hed had the opportunity to contact 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about his complaint.Mr C was given additional time to give him the opportunity to contact the Financial Conduct 
Authority and provide any additional information following this. No further information has 
been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C doesnt think Ive proven Ive considered all his comments and correspondence and I 
should address them individually in my decision. I want to assure him again Ive read 
everything hes sent to our service regarding this complaint and Ive listened to every call 
between him and the investigator as well as calls between him and Cashplus. So Im 
satisfied Ive heard Mr C explain his complaint, and his response to my provisional decision 
in his own words. Im not required to respond to all of his points individually and I have 
addressed what I believe is his central complaint.
I have considered his complaint again, taking his response to the provisional decision into 
account, but my decision remains the same. I wont repeat everything Ive already said here, 
but I would like to address some of Mr Cs ongoing concerns.
Mr C has asked me to set out in detail why Cashplus allowed the payment to be made. In 
particular hes said Cashplus implied it had no choice but to let the payment go through. In 
my provisional decision I explained the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) applied 
in this case. Ive also set out where, in the terms and conditions Mr C agreed to, Cashplus 
was entitled to take the action it did. So I think I have explained why, in this case, Im 
satisfied Cashplus was entitled to do what it did. 
Mr C has commented the payment was authorised by small print and not by a signature. As 
his terms and conditions outline, there is more than one way to authorise a payment 
depending on the type of payment being made. In this particular case, his authorisation was 
given online. So he wasnt required to sign anything.
Mr C feels Ive completely missed that Cashplus treated him rudely and that it was 
obstructive when he tried to raise this issue with it. This is something I have considered 
already, and I dont feel Ive seen evidence Cashplus has been rude or obstructive. For the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, I think he was given appropriate information 
around how to deal with the fine he was disputing. And although the waiting times he had 
sometimes experienced werent ideal, I didnt think they warranted any compensation.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly ask Cashplus to do anything more in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman