DRN-4121881
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance mis-sold him loans to finance the acquisition of holiday products. This complaint is 
Mr Ds as he entered into the finance agreements. However, as the holiday products were 
purchased by Mr and Mrs D I have referred to both Mr and Mrs D in this decision.
Mr D is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr D 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr D says that while on holiday in September 2014, he and his wife were stopped and told 
they had won a day at a spa. They attended the day which turned into a sales pitch. At the 
end of the day, they wanted to return to their own hotel but were told they could upgrade 
their holiday. Mr D says they said they couldnt afford it, but a loan was then arranged over 
the telephone between the sales agent and BPF. The loan was for £4,000 (Loan 1).
In May 2015 Mr D says he was told his holiday product entitled him to a free holiday. They 
agreed to this and had to pay for flights but on arrival at the resort they were told they 
needed to upgrade their holiday membership. This involved them being given a further loan 
(Loan 2).
Mr D says that checks werent carried out before the loans were provided to ensure they 
were suitable and that he felt pressured into agreeing to the loans which were used to 
acquire the holiday products from the third party (the Supplier). He says the loans have 
resulted in him struggling financially. He also says he wasnt told about the annual 
maintenance costs for the holiday products.
BPF didnt provide evidence of the checks that were undertaken before the loans were 
provided and Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator issued a view in September 2022 not upholding this complaint. She 
concluded:
Claims under Section 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) in regard to 
Loan 1 had been made out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
There wasnt enough evidence to say the holiday product acquired with Loan 2 had 
been misrepresented when considering a claim under Section 75 of the CCA.
When considering Section 140A of the CCA, there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that an unfair relationship existed between Mr D and BPF in regard to Loan 2 and the 
holiday product acquired.
Having considered Mr and Mrs Ds income and expenses from the time of Loan 1 
and Loan 2 she didnt think there was evidence to say that BPF should have been 
aware the lending was unaffordable.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the income and expenditure 
assessment undertaken didnt include all of Mr and Mrs Ds expenses and that the cost of 
the loans needed to also include the cost of the maintenance fees. He reiterated that Mrs D 
was retired at the time and that Mr D was close to retirement and that the outstanding 
repayments are unaffordable. In regard to the assessment for claims under the CCA, Mr D 
said the Supplier told him that what he was acquiring wasnt a timeshare and he wasnt 
provided the information he needed about the holiday product and its ongoing costs. He said 
that the loans were arranged without his involvement  being arranged between the Supplier 
and BPF and that he wasnt aware that Loan 1 had been settled when Loan 2 was provided.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings from the decision are set out 
below:
Mr Ds complaint that was raised with BPF and then referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service was about the mis-selling of two loans that were linked to purchases of holiday 
products. While Mr D didnt explicitly raise claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, 
given the nature of his complaint I think it reasonable that these sections of the CCA are 
considered. Our investigator made findings in regard to Section 75 and Section 140A which 
have been sent to BPF and I find it reasonable that my decision will address these claims.
Additional to the claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, Mr D raised concerns that 
the lending was unaffordable. Evidence to support this part of his complaint was provided 
and assessed by our investigator and I will also assess this as part of my decision.
The sale in September 2014: Section 75 - Misrepresentation
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr Ds claim was made out of time under LA. But the Acts 
still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether BPFs response to the 
claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs D entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. And Mr D used Loan 1 
to help pay for the purchase, which was when he suffered the loss.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action in regard to the September 2014 
acquisition and Loan 1 accrued in September 2014 when Mr and Mrs D made their 
purchase, and this means that Mr Ds claim for misrepresentation under Section 75 in regard 
to the September 2014 purchase had to be made within six years of that date. As the claim 
wasnt made until 2021, I think its likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set out in the 
LA.
The sale in May 2015: Section 75  MisrepresentationThe second purchase was paid for using Loan 2 in May 2015. As the claim was made in 
April 2021 this falls within the time limits of the LA and so I have considered whether BPF is 
required to do more in regard to a claim under Section 75 of the CCA in regard to this 
acquisition.
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 of the CCA, there needs to have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. In this case I havent seen any evidence in regard to a breach 
of contract and while I note the comments made about how the holiday products were 
marketed and the lack of information provided about issues such as the ongoing 
maintenance fees, I do not find that I have evidence that the sale of the holiday product in 
2015 and Loan 2 were misrepresented to Mr D. Therefore, I do not find I can uphold this part 
of his complaint.
Section 140A - Unfair relationship
In regard to Section 140A of the CCA, the six years is applied from when the relationship 
between BPF and Mr D ended. As Loan 1 ended in June 2015 and Loan 2 is still ongoing I 
find that both loans fall within the six-year time frame and so I have considered the merits of 
this complaint with this provision in mind.
Given the comments Mr and Mrs D have made about how the sale was conducted and that 
they werent aware of their option to withdraw from the agreements, I have considered 
section 140A of the CCA, particularly focusing on whether the sale was brought about by 
selling methods on the part of the Supplier that were unfair or misleading. Only a court has 
the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr D and BPF was unfair for the 
purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I have considered whether it applied to the 
credit agreement.
Having done so, I believe it is unlikely a court would conclude that the Suppliers actions as 
an agent of BPF generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship. I note the comments that 
the initial sales approach involved an offer of a spa day which then turned into a lengthy 
sales pitch and the subsequent sale occurred when Mr and Mrs D had arrived for a holiday 
and were told they would need to upgrade. But in this case, I dont think there is enough to 
show that Mr and Mrs D were pressured into the purchases or that they had no option but to 
go ahead. I appreciate that in the first purchase they had said they couldnt afford the holiday 
product (affordability is dealt with later) and Loan 1 was arranged but I dont find I have 
enough to show that they said they didnt want to go ahead or that they had no option but to 
go ahead. The purchase agreement included the right to withdraw information, and this has 
been signed by Mr and Mrs D.
Likewise in regard to the second purchase, while I appreciate the situation Mr and Mrs D 
were in, I do not have enough evidence to show that no holiday accommodation would have 
been available to Mr and Mrs D had they chosen not to upgrade, and I can see that the 
purchase agreement included the right to withdraw information and this has been signed. On 
balance, without further evidence, I do not find I have enough to say that had BPF 
considered a claim under Section 140A of the CCA that it should have been upheld.
Our jurisdiction and the decision to lend
Mr D has said that inadequate checks took place before the loans were provided. The rules 
about the complaints we can consider are known as the DISP rules and these can be found 
in the FCAs Handbook. DISP 2.8.2 provides (unless the failure to comply with the time limits 
was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if a 
consumer refers it to us more than:a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Im satisfied the decisions to lend were made at the points of sale in September 2014 (Loan 
1) and May 2015 (Loan 2). Mr D raised his initial complaint in April 2021, so I accept that the 
complaint in regard to Loan 2 was brought within the six-year timeframe. However I cant 
reasonably find that the complaint in regard to Loan 1 was brought to us within the six- year 
period set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2 above so Ive gone on to consider the second 
limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr D knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint - to see if this extended the time.
The submissions do not suggest a timeframe as to when Mr D believes he had cause to 
complain but I note this issue was first raised when Mr and Mrs D discussed their situation 
with a family member. If the loans were unaffordable, Id expect Mr D to have realised this 
much earlier - but I accept thats not the same as him knowing he had cause for complaint 
against BPF. On the current evidence, I cant be certain that Mr D knew (or ought reasonably 
to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF regarding affordability before 
2021. Im satisfied he brought this complaint to us within three years of that and Ive gone on 
to consider his complaint about irresponsible lending in respect of both Loan 1 and Loan 2.
Unaffordable Lending
Before providing the loans to Mr D, BPF had to carry out adequate checks to ensure the 
lending was affordable. There isnt a specific set of checks that is required, and the extent of 
checks may differ depending on factors such as the amount of borrowing, duration of the 
loan and the size of the repayments. In this case the loans were provided in 2014 and 2015 
and I havent received evidence of the checks undertaken by BPF at the time of the loans. I 
also note the comments made by Mr D that the loans were arranged without his involvement 
but between the Supplier and BPF. Therefore, I accept in this case that - without evidence to 
the contrary - the checks undertaken before the loans were provided may not have been 
adequate.
However, even if I accept that adequate checks didnt take place, for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that had the required checks taken place, BPF would 
have realised the lending was unaffordable. I do not think in this case that BPF was required 
to ask Mr D for copies of his bank statements before providing the loans but in the absence 
of anything else I have relied on the bank statements provided by Mr D as an indication of 
what adequate checks would have shown.
Mr D has provided copies of bank statements for two accounts  a flex account and a 
cashbuilder account. These are joint accounts and as the loans were only in Mr Ds name, I 
have tried to establish a reasonable estimate of his income and expenses to assess whether 
the loans should reasonably been considered affordable.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £4,000 and was provided in September 2014. The loan was repayable 
through 36 monthly repayments of around £133.
It has been explained that Mr Ds wages were paid into the cashbuilder account and then 
transfers made to the flex account to pay for bills and other costs. Looking at the cashbuilder 
in the months leading up to Loan 1 being provided, income payments averaging around 
£1,065 were received. The payments from this account are either transfers to Mr and 
Mrs Ds flex account or cash withdrawals. Mr D has explained that the transfers were to pay for bills and so I have looked through Mr and Mrs Ds flex account to understand more about 
their expenses at that time.
I have looked at the expenses from the flex account and these appear to total an average of 
around £1,280 a month. As these were joint expenses for items such as rent, utilities, food 
and other household costs, I think it reasonable to take a portion of these as being 
attributable to Mr D  noting the other income that was received into the flex account was 
around £1,000 so similar to the amount received by Mr D. Given this I have assessed the 
affordability based on Mr D paying half of the expenses. This, against his monthly income 
would leave monthly disposable income of around £425. Based on monthly repayments of 
£133 and including an amount for maintenance fees (based on £1,000 a year), I do not find I 
have enough to say that had adequate checks been undertaken BPF would have found 
Loan 1 was unaffordable.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for an amount of just under £10,000. It was repayable over 120 months with 
monthly repayments of around £145. I note Mr Ds comment about not being aware that 
Loan 1 was repaid at the time of Loan 2 but based on the statements provided it appears 
this was the situation and I find it reasonable based on the statements Mr D would have 
received and the payments he was required to make that he would have been reasonably 
aware of this.
The monthly repayments went from around £133 to around £145, which based on the 
previous affordability checks wouldnt have raised concerns. However, Loan 2 was for a 
much longer duration and so I think it reasonable that it would only be considered affordable 
in the event there was a reasonable buffer in the disposable income figures to allow for 
increase costs over the duration. I note the comments about Mr D approaching retirement so 
I find it reasonable that this is taken into consideration.
Again, as Loan 2 is only in Mr Ds name, I have assessed the affordability based on what I 
consider it reasonable for BPF to have identified as his income and expenses had adequate 
checks taken place. Again, considering the income in the cashbuilder account as Mr Ds and 
noting the comment about the bonus payment included in the March pay, I find a reasonable 
estimate for his monthly basic pay to be around £1,100.
Against this income, Mr and Mrs Ds expenses were around £1,070 (excluding Loan 1 
repayments as this was settled at the time of Loan 2). Again, assessing Mr Ds contribution 
to the expenses as being 50% this would give expenses of around £535 against an income 
of around £1,100. This gives a disposable income of around £565. Considering the 
repayments due under Loan 2 and an amount for the maintenance fees, I do not find that I 
have enough to say that further checks would have shown Loan 2 to have been 
unaffordable.
As noted above, given the length of Loan 2, I think it is reasonable to say that adequate 
checks would have included a question about Mr Ds income for the duration of the 
agreement including any income post retirement. In this case it has been said that Mr and 
Mrs Ds combined pension income is around £1,650 month. Taking into account the joint 
expenses at the time were around £1,070, I still do not find that I have enough to say that 
had adequate checks taken place this loan would have been found to have been 
unaffordable.
Mr D didnt agree with my provisional decision. He challenged the affordability calculation 
and said payments shown in the bank statements to catalogue companies were for essential 
items such as furniture and white goods that had needed to be bought when Mr and Mrs D moved to an unfurnished assisted living property and didnt have the money to buy the items 
outright. He said these payments should be included in the assessment. He said that had 
the level of disposable income recorded in the provisional decision been correct Mrs D 
wouldnt have needed to cash in part of her pension to clear existing debts.
Mr D said that he and Mrs D werent told they were signing up for a timeshare and when 
they asked about this, they were told they werent buying a timeshare. He said they werent 
aware that the first loan was being paid off when the second loan was being provided and 
they were told when they travelled out for a holiday that there existing purchase was no good 
and they needed to upgrade. Mr D says they werent told about the additional annual costs 
and that they werent party to the finance discussions which took place between the Supplier 
and BPF.
Mr D also raised concerns that the broker that undertook the credit intermediary activities for 
the two loans wasnt authorised at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I have looked again at this complaint in light of the response provided to my provisional 
decision. While I appreciate the information that has been provided, I do not find that this 
changes my conclusions in regard to Mr Ds claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think that any claim in regard to loan 1 under 
Section 75 of the CCA is likely to be considered out of time in regard to the LA. In regard to 
loan 2, while I note the comments made about the information provided to Mr and Mrs D 
before acquiring the holiday product paid for by the loan, I can see that the purchase 
agreement they signed set out what they were acquiring and provided withdrawal rights. So 
while I understand the points that have been made, I do not find I have enough to say that 
the agreements were misrepresented under Section 75 of the CCA.
Likewise, while I note the points that have been raised, I do not find that there are new 
issues that change my decision in regard to whether a court would likely consider the 
relationship between Mr D and BPF to be unfair and so I do not find I have evidence to 
support a claim under Section 140A of the CCA.
Mr D has challenged my assessment in regard to the affordability of the loans. I understand 
the point that has been made about payments for items bought through catalogue accounts. 
However, having looked at the information provided, I still do not find that I have enough to 
say that had adequate checks been carried out in regard to Mr Ds income and expenses at 
the time of the loans, these would have been found to have been unaffordable. 
Mr D has raised an issue regarding the credit intermediary not being authorised. I have 
checked the credit intermediary noted on the loan agreements and our services records 
show they were authorised at the time of the loans.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman