DRN-1186496
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Grattan Plc (trading as Kaleidoscope) supplied her with misleading 
information, with the result that a debt she thought was settled remains owing, and she has 
incurred further interest and charges. 
What happened
In May 2018 Miss H opened a credit account with Grattan with an initial credit limit of £200. 
(This was increased in stages to £400, and then reduced in February 2019 to £100.)
She used the account to buy two items of clothing. She ordered a further four items which 
are shown on her May 2018 statement as being on approval. From her June 2018 
statement, it would appear two of these were returned for which she was allowed a credit.
It doesnt seem she bought any further items after May 2018. She owed £63.99 for what she 
had bought, and incurred interest charges on this debt. She didnt pay the minimum amount 
due each month and so as well as interest she incurred the following debt reminder fees:
July 2018 - £12
October 2018 - £12
December 2018 - £12
January 2019 - £12
February 2019 - £12
March 2019 - £12
Miss H did make the following payments to the account:
July 2018 - £20
September 2018 - £20
November 2018 - £10
December 2018 - £5
After December 2018, Miss H made no further payments. In June 2019, after being unable 
to make contact with Miss H, Grattan defaulted the account. In August 2019, it sold the then 
outstanding debt of £96.69 to another company.
Miss H says she thought she had paid off what she owed at the end of August 2018. In 
September 2018 she says she looked on an app for the account and it showed she had a zero balance and available credit. She moved house in October 2018. To make sure her 
account was in credit she made two more payments.
At the beginning of August 2019, she went back to her old house and picked up some mail 
there, including two letters from Grattan. One letter dated 14 May 2019 said she owed 
Grattan £20. The second was a statement dated 26 May 2019 which said she owed Grattan 
£96.69. She went back and looked again at the account app. She says it still showed a zero 
balance.
She complained to Grattan about the different amounts it was claiming, and that it was 
saying she owed anything at all. Grattan opened a complaint, but closed it without doing 
anything. So she complained to us.
Grattan acknowledged that it shouldnt have closed her complaint without investigating it. 
However it said at no time since May 2018 had Miss Hs account had a zero balance. It had 
sent statements to her by post every month to her address last known to it; and every month 
it had sent her an email reminder that her statement was now available for her to view 
online.
Grattan also said that Miss H had two accounts, her Kaleidoscope account and another 
account with a sister business. Each was accessed using her email address and password. 
But once her Kaleidoscope account was defaulted in June 2019, it couldnt be viewed online 
 only the other account would be visible. This currently showed a credit limit of £100 and a 
zero balance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Grattan had sent 
Miss H statements showing what she owed every month, and email reminders that her 
account could be viewed online. The account information she had seen online using the app 
for a zero balance seemed to relate to her other account.
Grattan could have done more in August 2019 to explain this and how she owed it money. 
However the investigator didnt think this would have changed what happened.
By this time Grattan had sent Miss H numerous reminders about what she owed. It had tried 
to contact Miss H by phone and text, but the number it had was disconnected. 
It wasnt unreasonable for Grattan to expect a customer to check their statements. Miss H 
had made no payments since December 2018. So she thought Grattan hadnt acted unfairly 
in defaulting Miss Hs account, and she wouldnt ask it to do anything further.
Miss H responded to say, in summary, that:
she had been sure she had repaid what she owed Grattan in autumn 2018. So when 
she moved house in October 2018, she didnt think she needed to give Grattan her 
new address;
she was sure she had visited the app for this account in December 2018, and it 
showed a zero balance. She said she hadnt opened the other account until later in 
2019;
the app for the other account was confusing as it also contained the Kaleidoscope 
logo for her Grattan account;
if she had known there was a balance owed on her Grattan account she would have 
settled it;
the investigator said she should have checked with Grattan when she visited the app 
in December 2018, and it showed a zero balance. But why would she do this when 
she didnt believe she owed anything;her house move in October 2018 was delayed, so her belongings were packed away 
for some time. Included in these was one of the items she had bought from Grattan 
on her account which she thought she had returned. This only came to light recently, 
and had now been returned to Grattan;
about the same time as her house move, she had an operation, and took some time 
to recover from this. She also explained that she has a registered disability;
In December 2018, she became aware of emails from Grattan saying her account 
was in arrear. She says she checked the app which showed a zero balance. So she 
thought the email purporting to be from Grattan was a scam and could be ignored. 
However as a precaution she made a small payment of £5 to her account. She 
thought she had taken photos of the zero balance and this payment, but couldnt now 
find them; and
she had tried to contact Grattan in December 2018 using an online chat app, but had 
given up after waiting 20 or 30 minutes for an advisor to connect.
 
The investigator said that even if Miss H had been able to produce photos of the zero 
balance she says she saw using the app in December 2018, this probably wouldnt have 
changed her view. Given the other information Miss H was getting from Grattan, the 
investigator thought she should have checked this at the time with Grattan. Things could 
then have been put right before the account defaulted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Grattan didnt deal properly with the complaint Miss H 
made, by closing it without investigation. However shortly afterwards she brought the 
present complaint to us.
I cant say Grattan did anything wrong in the way it operated Miss Hs Kaleidoscope account. 
It sent monthly statements to the only address it had, and each month reminded Miss H by 
email that she could view her statement online. It tried to contact Miss H by phone and text, 
but the number it had was disconnected.
Miss H says she was misled by viewing an online app for her account in December 2018. 
She says this showed she had a zero balance. But this was at a time when she was aware 
of emails which seemed to be from Grattan saying she was in arrear. She assumed the 
emails must be scams; but she didnt check this with Grattan.
Miss H hasnt been able to produce any photos or other evidence of the zero balance she 
says she saw. I note that this was several months before she opened her other account.
I can see why if she had gone on to the app for the other account while both accounts were 
open she might have confused it for her Kaleidoscope account. But this couldnt have 
happened in December 2018, or at any time before the other account was opened.
Miss H has explained why she thought she had repaid what she owed to Grattan. However it 
remained her responsibility to pay off her account. Grattan did all it reasonably could to tell 
her what she owed.
On the evidence Miss H has produced, I havent seen enough to persuade me that she saw 
a Kaleidoscope app in December 2018 showing a zero balance at a time when all the other 
information Grattan was producing showed she still owed it money. Even if I were persuaded she did see such information, I think she should have done more to check the true position 
with Grattan.
All in all, I dont think Grattan has treated Miss H unfairly in the way it operated her account, 
and I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Grattan Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman