DRN-4395415
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the decision made by Next Retail Limited (Next) to ask her to repay 
the cost of items she says were returned, as well as a £35 investigation fee.
What happened
Mrs E used her running account credit facility with Next to purchase shoes in November 
2022. She says that she subsequently returned the goods in December 2022 using a returns 
service provided by Next. The cost of the goods was then refunded to Mrs Es account.
In April 2023 Next wrote to Mrs E to say that the package it had received was not the shoes 
Mrs E had purchased  rather, it was shoes of a different brand and theyd been worn. Next 
said it would not accept the return, and that it would reapply the cost of the goods and also 
apply a £35 investigation fee. 
Mrs E raised a complaint with Next. She said its possible the package might have been 
opened and the items switched at some point between leaving her possession and arriving 
with Next. She suggested shed been the victim of a well-documented scam involving a 
courier acting on Nexts behalf. Lastly, Mrs E raised issue with Next having taken months to 
arrive at its decision, pointing out that evidence of the packages condition when it left her, 
such as footage from her video doorbell, was no longer available by that point.
Next issued its final response in May 2023. It didnt agree with Mrs Es complaint and 
maintained that it had not received the goods sent to Mrs E, so the reapplication of the cost 
as well as a £35 investigation fee was justified.
Mrs E referred her complaint to this service. She maintained shed been the victim of a scam 
and said that she ought not to pay the costs of the goods nor the investigation fee Next 
applied.
Our investigator said that Next had acted as a retailer in selling Mrs E goods. So her dispute 
about Next not accepting the return of those goods was not a matter this service had the 
power to consider a complaint about  and that extended to the trouble and upset that Mrs E 
said shed been caused by the situation.
They accepted that the £35 fee Next applied was part of Mrs Es regulated finance 
agreement, and something that this service did have the power to consider a complaint 
about. In respect of that charge our investigator said that theyd asked Next for evidence of 
its investigation into what had happened, particularly details of enquiries it made with the 
courier in light of Mrs Es assertion as well as pictures of the packaging received. 
They said that because Next had not been able to supply that information, they didnt think 
theyd seen sufficient evidence to show that Next had fairly applied the £35 investigation fee. 
They recommended Next remove that fee.
From what she said I think that Mrs E broadly agreed with our investigators position. Next 
disagreed, said its process was robust and that it had provided sufficient evidence. It said it 
had faith in the courier and said there is nothing to suggest anything untoward has 
happened.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook) say that 
we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction as long as the 
complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified.
Whilst Next comes under this services jurisdiction, its acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Mrs E. 
In selling goods to, and subsequently deciding whether or not to accept the return of those 
goods, Next is acting as a retailer. In raising the issue about whether or not Next ought to 
have accepted that Mrs E returned the goods, shes relied on rights she might have had 
against Next as a retailer. This service does not have the power to consider a complaint 
about Nexts activities as a retailer. So, I cannot make a finding on whether or not Next ought 
to have accepted Mrs Es return. Mrs E might, however, be able to pursue this issue 
elsewhere, for example, with an alternative dispute resolution service, should she wish.
Next has also acted as the provider of regulated lending to Mrs E, and its asked her to repay 
sums it lent her. The running credit account it provides to Mrs E is regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. This service has the power to consider complaints about that 
type of agreement. So, I can consider whether Next is acting fairly in asking Mrs E to repay 
the lending it provided, and I can also find on whether it applied the £35 fee fairly, as the 
clause which allows Next to do so forms part of that agreement.
The agreement sets out that Next would provide Mrs E with lending for purchases up to a 
certain limit. It doesnt, however, say that Mrs E neednt repay the lending in the event of a 
dispute about the provision or return of specific goods. And its clear theres a dispute about 
whether or not the goods were returned in this case. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that 
Next has not acted fairly by asking Mrs E to repay the lending it provided. 
The term Next relies on applying a £35 investigation fee says;
If you return or attempt to return, substitute or alternative items when using our returns 
facility for any item an investigation charge of £35 will be added to the balance owing on 
your account.
Next said it had not been provided with any proof to support Mrs Es complaint and 
referenced part of its returns policy, which said;
If you return goods to us, we will not be responsible for any loss or damage to them during 
transit and we recommend that you use a recorded or secure delivery method. If goods are 
lost or damaged in transit, we may charge you, or not refund to you, amounts that are 
attributable to the loss or damage. 
However, I understand that Mrs E returned the goods in question using a courier service 
provided by Next, so I dont think that clause is relevant here, particularly with regard to 
whether a £35 investigation fee has been fairly applied.Mrs Es assertion is that the goods were switched at some point after they left her 
possession. I think its fair to say that Mrs Es ability to investigate and demonstrate whats 
most likely happened here is limited. On the other hand, it seems to me that it ought to have 
been relatively straight forward for Next to investigate matters with the courier. 
At the very least Id expect Next to be able to demonstrate that it had investigated matters. 
Its not for me to say exactly what that investigation ought to have consisted of, but given 
Mrs Es assertions, Id reasonably expect Next to provide things like tracking details  
showing where the package was, for how long and who it was handle by  pictures of the 
package it received, and perhaps comments from the courier, for example.
Next has provided a picture of the item it says it received  a used pair of shoes. Its also 
provided a screenshot of notes which represent thats what it received. Our investigator 
asked for pictures of the package received as well as evidence of the investigation into 
matters with its courier. 
From what Ive seen, Next didnt provide either of those things. And I think theyre relevant to 
whether the charge has been applied fairly. It wouldve been beneficial to see both of these 
things  itd show the extent to which Next investigated matters and it couldve given an 
indication as to whether the package had been prematurely accessed.
Mrs E, by contrast, has provided what I consider to be a plausible, persuasive and consistent 
version of events. She says that the goods were handed to Nexts courier in a sealed Next 
branded bag, complete with paperwork. Shed offered to provide evidence of that via her 
video doorbell, which is no longer available due to the time which passed  over four months 
 by the point Next applied a £35 fee. I note our investigator asked Next why it took so long 
to apply the fee and tell Mrs E about it, but I dont think it adequately answered that. 
I think its fair to say theres likely evidence which Next couldve provided to reasonably 
determine whether this charge is justified. It ought reasonably to be able to show that it 
carried out an investigation into what happened in light of Mrs Es assertions, but in my view 
its not demonstrated that its done that. Additionally, I find that Mrs E has been 
disadvantaged by the time Next took to handle maters because shes no longer in 
possession of evidence which might have given an indication as to what happened. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say, on balance, that the charge has been applied fairly. As a 
result, I require Next to remove it and rework Mrs Es account as though it hadnt been 
applied.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and 
require Next Retail Limited to rework Mrs Es account as though the £35 fee had not been 
applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman