DRN-3025660
The complaint
Ms B complains that Lakes Mortgages Limited sold her a life insurance policy that she didnt 
want or need when she was remortgaging her home. She says she was told it was a 
mandatory requirement of the lender but has since found that isnt the case.
What happened
In 2016, Lakes Mortgages was arranging a mortgage for Ms Bs daughter. But there was a 
problem with the amount she could borrow because of her contractual hours with her 
employer. In order to help with this, Lakes Mortgages suggested that Ms B could remortgage 
her own property to raise some capital to lend to her. Their intention was that this would 
allow Ms Bs daughter to go ahead with her property purchase and then improve her 
employment position to help with her own mortgage arrangements.
Ms B took out a mortgage for £55,750 over an 18-year term. This was on a two-year fixed 
interest rate. Ms B also started a decreasing term assurance policy to match the amount and
term of the whole borrowing. She recalls being told that this was a requirement of the 
lending.
Ms Bs daughter reimbursed her for the mortgage repayments and made overpayments up
to the maximum 10% allowed on the mortgage without penalty.
After two years, Ms B remortgaged again, taking out another two-year fixed interest rate
product with the same lender. She then found that having life cover wasnt a requirement of
that lender and cancelled her policy. Ms B complained and questioned why she had been 
sold the policy.
Lakes Mortgages said that there was nothing to suggest that Ms B wasnt provided with the
policy documentation and a cooling-off notice giving her the opportunity to change her mind
about taking out the policy. It said the suitability letter sent to Ms B noted that she wanted to
start a plan to enable her two daughters to inherit the property debt free, and it assumed
Ms B agreed with this or she could have cancelled the policy. Lakes Mortgages said that
there was nothing to suggest that Ms B was told the policy was compulsory.
Our adjudicators opinion
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He
said that Ms Bs mortgage offer didnt include life cover as a condition of her borrowing, and
she was given details about cancelling the policy within the 30-day cooling off period. The
adjudicator said he thought it was likely that Lakes Mortgages had made it clear to Ms B that
she didnt have to buy the policy if she didnt want to. The adjudicator also said the suitability
letter said Ms B had wanted the security of knowing that, should she die within the mortgage
term, the debt would be repaid so that her daughters would be left with a mortgage-free
property. Although Ms B had said she didnt receive that letter, the adjudicator said it had
been correctly addressed to her. The adjudicator felt Ms B had a need for the cover the
policy gave her and didnt think it was an unsuitable recommendation.
Ms B didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said, in summary, that she didnt agree to
take out the policy knowing that she had a choice, but only took it as she was led to believe
she had no other option. She said that she didnt express any wish to buy life cover in order
to leave her daughters with a mortgage-free property; she went to Lakes Mortgages for the
advisers experience and expertise to act in her best interests.
Ms B said that her death-in-service benefits from her employer exceeded the amount of her
mortgage and no-one was financially dependent on her. She said the policy was unsuitable
because it was unnecessary. She wasnt given a choice and was led to believe it was
mandatory, so she wouldnt have cancelled it. But as soon as she found out it wasnt needed
for the mortgage, she did cancel it. Ms B said she hadnt received the suitability letter until
she raised her complaint, and noted that the mortgage figure used in the letter wasnt
correct. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
My first provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. I said I thought it should be
upheld.
I said I thought the circumstances in which Ms B came to apply for this mortgage were
somewhat unusual in the sense that the majority of the capital she was raising was intended
to be given to her daughter to help her purchase her own property. Ms B told us that she
only agreed to start the term assurance policy because she was told it was required by the
lender and didnt know that she had a choice.
And I said that I found this to be a finely balanced case.
On the one hand, Ms Bs mortgage offer referred to the types of insurance needed and said
specifically: You are not required to take out any insurance  through either the lender or
Lakes Mortgages.
And Lakes Mortgages suitability letter also referred to the life cover and said: You also want
the security of knowing should you die within the mortgage term the mortgage debt will be
cleared so that your two daughters will be left with a mortgage free property.
And I could see why this would be an understandable and desirable option for some
borrowers. So I thought this could support the view that Ms B had a need for the life cover to
protect the mortgage, and that she was given information in the mortgage offer which
confirmed that having the policy wasnt a lending requirement.
But on the other hand, Ms B had no life cover before starting this particular plan, despite
having an existing mortgage debt, and she cancelled it as soon as she became aware that
the lender didnt require it.
And thinking about the amount she was borrowing, I said I understood that she intended on
lending £33,750 of this to her daughter. So I thought it could be said that much of the debt
she owed was effectively her daughters. In my view, that raised some doubts about why
Ms B would choose to take out life cover for the debt, unless she was told that it was
compulsory to get the mortgage. Ms B told us that her daughter had been making the
mortgage payments into her account just before they were due and had also overpaid to try
and reduce the debt sooner. They made the decision to continue with the mortgage in
Ms Bs name and with their repayment arrangement between them until it wouldnt be
classed as debt consolidation for her daughter.
Ms B didnt recall receiving the suitability letter and referred to the amount in the suitabilityletter being £40,750 rather than her total mortgage borrowing of £55,750. She said she
would have queried this at the time if she had received it. But I thought this may be referring
to the amount of capital she wanted to raise through the remortgage. Her existing mortgage
at the time was noted as being £14,482 so, with some rounding, the amount left after that
mortgage was repaid through the new mortgage would be around £40,750. I didnt think this
in itself was an indication that the details in the suitability letter were incorrect.
That said, there wasnt anything to confirm to me whether Ms B did receive that letter or, if
she had done, whether that wouldve given her pause to question the term assurance policy
she was starting, if she believed it was required.
In the particular circumstances, Ms B had been clear that the intention was for her daughter
to repay the amount lent to her. Ms Bs mortgage borrowing seemed to be a means to help
her daughter in as short a term as possible. And I thought the suitability letter supported this
as it said:
You wish to have the mortgage term over the longest possible term so that you can keep
your monthly payments down and therefore make overpayments as and when you see fit.
Your daughter has indicated that she will be re mortgaging her own property to repay you
the monies you lent her when she has enough income to support her own mortgage.
Your intention will be to redeem this part of the loan but only when the existing redemption
penalty has expired.
So it seemed less likely to me that Ms B would want to have life cover for the whole amount
of her mortgage borrowing over its full term, when the intention was to repay the majority of it
in a far shorter period of time. I found I was more persuaded by Ms Bs submission in
that I thought it seemed more likely than not that she started this term assurance policy
because she believed the lender required it, rather than she felt that she had a specific need
for it.
And on balance my view was that Ms Bs belief that the lender required her to take out life
cover was because this was what Lakes Mortgages suggested to her. I didnt think that Ms B
would have taken out this cover unless shed been advised that it was needed for her to get
the mortgage to help her daughter.
Because of this, I said Lakes Mortgages should refund the premiums Ms B paid to her
decreasing term assurance policy before she cancelled it, and it should add interest on these
premium payments at an annual rate of 8% simple.
The responses
Ms B responded to say that she had nothing further to add to the evidence already provided.
Lakes Mortgages responded to say that it didnt feel that the decision I reached was
acceptable. It included a number of additional documents for my consideration, that hadnt
been provided before. This included emails between Lakes Mortgages and Ms B from the
time the policy started, and later emails from 2017 and 2019 where Ms B had queried Lakes
Mortgages fees and commission.
In summary, Lakes Mortgages said that the adviser had never told a client that having life
assurance was compulsory and it wasnt a requirement of Ms Bs mortgage, and this was 
clearly stated in the mortgage offer. It said the adjudicator had agreed that the suitability 
letter was correctly addressed to Ms B and this, and the cooling-off letter from the provider, 
would have given her an opportunity to raise any queries. It said Ms B was given a 
protection insurance disclaimer to sign and could then have declined the cover.Lakes Mortgages said that it had acted in the best interests of Ms B at all times and she
accepted the terms offered to her. It said the request for confirmation of her acceptance
wouldnt have been sent to her if shed been told the life cover was compulsory.
It said that the mortgage debt wasnt Ms Bs daughters and the legal charge was against
Ms Bs property so she was liable for the debt. But it said the intention of the mortgage was
irrelevant as every mortgage related life cover must be in place for the term of the mortgage.
It said that Ms B had seven opportunities to decline the cover.
My second provisional decision
I issued my second provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021. This was to respond 
to the additional and new information Lakes Mortgages had provided. I reviewed this 
information, but I didnt feel that it changed the provisional conclusion that Id reached. 
I reiterated that I consider this to be a finely balanced case. I said I appreciated the strength 
of feeling from both sides about their position and viewpoint. But I said I must review the 
particular merits of this complaint based upon what I believe to be fair and reasonable, 
taking into account all of the information that has been provided. I said I couldnt know
exactly what verbal discussions may have taken place during the meetings between the
adviser and Ms B. So I must make my findings on the information that I had and what I
thought is more likely to have happened based upon the balance of probabilities.
I said that I was fully aware that Ms B was liable for the mortgage this policy related to, not 
her daughter. My reference to the main reason Ms B was taking out the mortgage was 
because I thought it was an important consideration. I didnt agree that the intention was 
irrelevant as it was a factor in Ms Bs specific circumstances at the time. Ms B wasnt simply
taking out the mortgage for her own purposes. Instead it was a means for her daughter to be
able to buy her own property, and they had a personal arrangement in place so that Ms Bs
daughter would be able to make regular repayments to her for this.
I looked through the email exchanges between Ms B and the adviser. And I thought that
Ms Bs email of January 2017 indicated that she had reviewed the information shed
received about her policy, as she queried the difference in the premium she was quoted and
corrected the information about her height. She also asked about the maximum she
could borrow on the mortgage, and about whether her daughter would be able to raise a
mortgage in her own right. But I didnt think this email gave any indication that Ms B made
the choice to take out the life policy because it was something she felt she needed or 
wanted.
And, when I considered the mortgage protection insurance disclaimer Ms B signed, this
appeared to be more about the protection products Ms B wasnt taking out  mortgage
payment protection and income protection. Although it indicated that the implications of not
having these types of insurance and the benefits of them were explained, I didnt think it
clearly demonstrated that it was Ms Bs desire to have life and critical illness cover, rather
than her belief that she needed to have it for the mortgage.
I also thought this could be said of the email from the adviser about the arrangement of the 
life cover. This confirmed the details and the cost and says: I trust this is ok with you to 
proceed if not please let me know. If I accepted that Lakes Mortgages led Ms B to believe 
that she had to have this cover with her mortgage, I didnt think this would necessarily have 
made her question taking it out. Her reply indicated that she hadnt had life cover before as 
she had endowment policies with her mortgages. And I thought her question about not being tied into paying it for the whole 18-year term supported that the intention was for the 
mortgage to be paid off sooner than that.
I said that I appreciated that it would normally be appropriate for life cover sold for mortgage
protection to be in place for the duration of the borrowing  so for the terms to match. But I 
said that wasnt really the point here. It wasnt the case that I thought the policy should have 
been set up over a shorter term. Ms B expressed that she didnt have a need for the cover, 
or indeed want it, and only took it out as she believed she needed to for the mortgage she 
was taking out largely to help her daughter. And I thought the actions she took in cancelling 
the policy when she became aware that it wasnt something the lender required supported 
this. If she believed she had a specific financial need for the life cover while she still had a
mortgage debt, then I thought it was more likely that she would have continued with it.
Lakes Mortgages said that Ms B had a number of opportunities to decline the life cover.
But I thought it was unlikely that she would have taken those opportunities if she believed, 
from what she had been told by Lakes Mortgages, that it was required for her mortgage.
The responses
Ms B said that she had nothing further to add as she feels that she thoroughly explained her 
position when she submitted her complaint. She said that she felt that one opportunity to 
provide further information should be sufficient for Lakes Mortgages and urged me to issue 
my final determination.
Lakes Mortgages said that it had given all the evidence that it had acted in a professional 
manner. It said I hadnt come forward and explained how Id reached my decision. Lakes 
Mortgages asked for additional time to make further submissions and said that it would 
respond by the end of August 2021. 
After consideration, I agreed to an extension to allow both parties to fully set out their 
submissions. Lakes Mortgages requested that it be provided with evidence of why Id 
reached my decision to uphold the complaint. It said that it had supplied factual evidence 
showing that Ms B was advised that life cover wasnt compulsory, and it had acted on the 
information she provided and the application she consented to make. Lakes Mortgages said 
that I lacked knowledge about the liability and payment of mortgages which it felt had made 
the decision-making process unfair. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Ms B would like this matter to be resolved and feels that Lakes 
Mortgages has been given time to make its submissions for her complaint. However, as Ive 
said in both my provisional decisions, this has been a finely balanced case, and I have 
looked to give both sides every opportunity to present their submissions to allow me to reach 
what I consider is a fair determination.
Lakes Mortgages has asked for evidence of why Ive reached my decision. I have fully 
considered all the evidence and information provided and set out through my two provisional 
decisions how I have viewed this when reaching an outcome. This evidence and information 
included Ms Bs original submission of supporting documents when bringing her complaint, 
which have been provided to Lakes Mortgages, and Lakes Mortgages own submissions. 
Lakes Mortgages has also been provided with a summary of Ms Bs response to the adjudicators opinion, and the summary of responses to the first provisional decision was 
included within the second provisional decision.
I have taken this opportunity to fully review all of the information provided through the course 
of the complaint by both Ms B and Lakes Mortgages. But Ive found Ive reached the same 
conclusion that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld.
Lakes Mortgages says that Ms B received sufficient information to let her know that taking 
out the life cover wasnt compulsory, and that she was given the opportunity to decline to 
take out the cover. And, as Ive said throughout my consideration, the mortgage offer sets 
out that she wasnt required to take out insurance through either Lakes Mortgages or the 
lender. Lakes Mortgages suitability letter also referred to the life cover and noted that Ms B 
wanted the security it would provide. 
Although the suitability letter appears to be correctly addressed to Ms B; she has been clear 
that she didnt receive it at the time, as she wouldve questioned some of the details in it - 
the mortgage amount; the mention of wanting to leave her daughters with a mortgage-free 
property; and the commission Lakes Mortgages received from the policy provider. 
As Ive previously said, there isnt anything to confirm to me whether Ms B did receive the 
suitability letter or not. She has referred to receiving other documentation such as the policy 
information from the provider and that she has a file containing all documentation relating to 
the mortgage, but not this letter. Considering the questions that she asked Lakes Mortgages 
in her email from January 2017; on balance I think its reasonable to conclude that she didnt 
receive the suitability letter at the time it was sent, as its likely that she wouldve raised her 
questions about the details in it at the time. 
However, even if I was to conclude that Ms B did receive that letter, I dont think it would 
have given her cause to question taking out the life policy if she understood from what shed 
been told by Lakes Mortgages that she needed it.
Taking everything into account, I think it is more likely than not that Ms B believed that the 
lender required her to take out life cover because this was what Lakes Mortgages suggested 
to her. I dont think she would have taken out this cover unless shed been advised that it 
was needed for her to get the mortgage to help her daughter. I think this is supported by her 
circumstances at the time and that she didnt have life cover for her existing mortgage; the 
reasons she was remortgaging and the intention for the majority of the borrowing to be 
repaid earlier through the arrangement with her daughter; and her actions in cancelling the 
policy when she was made aware that the lender didnt require her to have it. 
Its because of this that my findings remain that I consider Ms Bs complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lakes Mortgages Limited to refund 
the premiums Ms B paid and add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date each 
premium was paid until the date of settlement.
If Lakes Mortgages considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman