DRN-3740845
The complaint
Miss R complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to close her account and the 
impact it had on her.
What happened
Miss R held an account with Barclays. Around 16 October 2020, Barclays blocked Miss Rs 
account while they carried out a review. In late October 2020, Barclays made the decision to 
close Miss Rs account with immediate effect.
Miss R needed to access her money  and went into branch with her payslips to gain access 
to her salary payments but Barclays refused. Miss R says the time she spent in branch 
resulted in her losing her job, which also meant she had to move out of her accommodation 
as she couldnt afford the rent  and all of this had an impact on her mental health.
Barclays reviewed things and while they felt their decision to close the account was fair, they 
recognised there had been issues with the service provided. Barclays admitted Miss R 
should have been given access to her salary payments and offered £200 compensation. 
Miss R received full access to her money around 11 November 2020.
Miss R wanted more compensation and for Barclays to remove any markers applied to her 
as she had struggled to open a bank account elsewhere. 
Our adjudicator reviewed things and didnt think Barclays needed to do anything differently. 
In summary, he said Barclays were entitled to review and close the account. And there was 
no evidence to show Miss R lost her job as a direct result of Barclays. He noted Miss R had 
to spend time going to the branch but didnt think she had to attend during her work hours. 
He also recognised Miss R had been able to borrow around £2,000 from friends and family 
and therefore mitigated her losses with not being able to access her money. Our adjudicator 
also explained that Barclays didnt add any external markers to Miss Rs credit file.  Overall, 
he thought £200 compensation was reasonable.
Miss R didnt agree. She provided a letter from a Barclays employee to confirm she did visit 
the branch during work hours. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing, blocking, and subsequently closing Miss Rs account. 
Barclays are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Miss Rs case, money paid 
into her account was raised as suspicious, so Im pleased to see Barclays took the action to 
block any further activity on the account while they investigated things. Barclays received 
information from the sending bank which they have shared with our service in confidence. 
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Barclays were entitled to close Miss Rs 
account and did so by complying with the terms and conditions of the account. Therefore, I 
cant reasonably say Barclays did anything wrong when deciding to close Miss Rs account.
I do recognise, however, that Miss R should have had access to the money in her account 
before she did. Barclays have admitted their error here and offered £200 compensation. I 
appreciate the impact Miss R says this overall situation had on her  namely that she lost 
her job and her home, and her anxiety was heightened. I dont doubt this would have been a 
really difficult time for Miss R and Im sorry to hear of the position she found herself in.
Ive carefully considered the evidence Miss R has supplied in relation to the loss of her job 
and moving out of her rented property. The letter regarding the property states Miss R 
moved out due to a change in personal circumstances  and I can foresee why losing her 
job would have resulted in this. However, Im also aware Miss R was able to borrow around 
£2,000 from friends and family during this time  and this was significantly more than the 
balance held in her Barclays account. Therefore, I cant agree a delay of around two weeks 
to access the money in the account caused Miss R to move out of her property and incur 
additional charges from her landlord.
The question left for me to answer is whether I think I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for 
Miss R losing her job. Miss R has provided a letter from her employer at the time which 
confirms Miss R didnt pass her probation as she wasnt able to meet the training 
requirements of the role. The letter doesnt refer to Miss Rs version of events such as being 
late back from lunch due to branch visits to Barclays  and even if it did, I dont think I can 
fairly say Barclays is the sole reason Miss R didnt pass her probation. While Barclays 
admitted their error, I havent seen anything which states Miss R had to visit the branch while 
she was working. I recognise she did  but that was her choice, rather than a requirement 
from Barclays. I appreciate this would have been a stressful time for Miss R  and she rightly 
wanted to find out what was happening with her money  but I cant agree her not 
completing mandatory training for her job on time was solely because of this issue. 
Ive also explained that the review, block, and closure was fair  and therefore I couldnt 
reasonably uphold Miss Rs complaint when I dont consider Barclays did anything wrong. I 
do consider Barclays caused a delay when giving Miss R access to her salary payments  
but having considered everything, I think the £200 compensation already offered, fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss R.
I havent seen any evidence to show Barclays applied any external markers to Miss Rs 
credit file which would make it difficult for her to open an account with another bank. I would 
urge Miss R to review her credit file if she hasnt already, so she can see what information is 
held against her.
Overall, I consider Barclays actions when reviewing and closing Miss Rs account was 
reasonable. I recognise the delays caused with Miss R gaining access to her money  but I 
think the £200 compensation offered is enough in the circumstances of whats happened. Im 
sorry I cant uphold Miss Rs complaint in the way shed like me to, but I hope my 
explanations have been helpful for her.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman