DRN-3303779
The complaint
Mr B says Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGIC) mis-handled his pet 
insurance policy and a claim hed made on it.
All references in this decision to CGIC include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
Mr B contacted CGIC to claim on the policy after his pet fell ill and needed treatment. At first, 
CGIC declined the claim because it believed the medical condition giving rise to it was pre-
existing and that it would have been excluded had Mr B told CGIC about the condition when 
taking the policy out. 
CGIC subsequently agreed to consider the claim following Mr Bs appeal. But, in doing so, 
CGIC paid a reduced amount as it believed hed misrepresented his pets date of birth when 
he applied for the policy. CGIC felt it would have charged a higher premium had it known the 
correct date of birth and so it reduced the settlement by the amount hed underpaid in 
premiums. 
Unhappy with the reduced settlement, Mr B complained to us. He explained he didnt know 
the pets age when he became its owner or when he applied for the policy and so answered 
the question he was asked to the best of his knowledge at that time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They 
went through the deductions CGIC had made for the claim and agreed it was entitled to take 
off 15% as a co-payment under the policy terms because Mr Bs pet was eight years old or 
older. But the investigator didnt think CGIC could fairly deduct the premium Mr B had 
underpaid due to misrepresenting his pets date of birth. Instead, the investigator asked 
CGIC to recalculate the settlement figure in proportion to the premium he paid and the 
premium he would have paid had there been no misrepresentation. The investigator also 
asked CGIC to pay Mr B £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset its actions had 
caused him.
Mr B replied to say that he accepted the investigators findings. CGIC didnt reply to the 
investigator, despite being chased for a response.   
As the complaint wasnt resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies available to it provided 
the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CGIC thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
gave the date of birth of his pet that he did when he applied for the policy.
Its no longer in dispute that Mr B failed to take reasonable care in answering the question as 
he did. Its been established that his pet was older than CGIC had been led to believe. And 
Im satisfied that this made a difference to CGIC and, as such, can be considered a 
qualifying misrepresentation. Thats because CGICs brought underwriting evidence to show 
it would likely have charged Mr B a higher premium to insure his pet based on the correct 
date of birth.
Its also not in dispute that Mr Bs misrepresentation could reasonably be considered to have 
been careless as opposed to deliberate or reckless. I agree that this classifications fair given 
the explanation Mr Bs provided as to how the misrepresentation arose. Namely, that he took 
ownership of the pet from a rescue home and that he was given no official date of birth at 
that time. That meant there was uncertainty as to the correct date from the outset.
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions CGIC can take in accordance with CIDRA in those circumstances. Where theres 
been a claim, CIDRA says an insurer can:
If it wouldnt have provided the policy on any terms, avoid the policy and refuse all 
claims. If the insurer would still have provided the policy but on different terms (other 
than terms relating to the premium) the policy should be treated as if it had been 
provided on those terms if the insurer requires; or
If the insurer would still have provided the insurance but would have charged a 
higher premium, it may reduce proportionately the amount paid on a claim where 
the misrepresentation was discovered as a result of the claim.
Of these two options, Im satisfied that the second applies in this case. In effect that means, 
for example, that if Mr B only paid 50% of the premium hed have paid but for the 
misrepresentation, then CGIC would need to pay 50% of the claim payment. 
Instead of that, CGIC reduced the claim payment by the amount Mr B underpaid in 
premiums as a result of the misrepresentation. Mr B lost out as a result. I dont believe that 
approach was consistent with the range of options set out in CIDRA, and because of that I 
think CGICs actions were unfair.  
In the light of all this, I think it would be fair for CGIC to recalculate the claim settlement in 
line with the proportionate approach set out in CIDRA and in accordance with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. For the avoidance of doubt, I see no reason why CGIC isnt entitled to apply the co-payment deduction of 15% that it has in line with those policy terms 
and conditions. 
Finally, I believe Mr Bs been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience because of 
CGICs actions. He felt he had little option but to challenge the actions of CGIC at what was 
a difficult time for him already given the poor health of his pet. 
As compensation for that, I believe CGIC should pay Mr B £100.
Putting things right
CGIC should: 
Pay Mr Bs claim in line with CIDRA and the remaining policy terms and conditions; 
and
Add interest at the simple rate of 8% a year* to any relevant claim amounts Mr Bs 
already paid himself, calculated from the date he paid them to the date of settlement 
by CGIC; plus
Pay Mr B £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CGIC to take off tax from this interest. CGIC must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right for Mr B as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman