DRN-3210226
The complaint
Mr G says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his account be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a total of seven catalogue shopping accounts provided by 
J D Williams to Mr G. The first two accounts were opened in December 2016 with Mr G 
being given an initial credit limit of £125 on each account. The limit on both accounts was 
increased six times until it reached £1250 in December 2017 and the same amount for the 
second account in February 2018.
The third account was opened in January 2017 with a credit limit of £125. This was 
increased five times until it reached £1300 in January 2018. 
The fourth account was opened in March 2017 with a credit limit of £125. This was 
increased three times until it reached £600 in April 2018. 
The fifth account was opened in April 2017 with a credit limit of £150. This was increased 
five times until it reached £1250 in March 2018. 
The sixth account was opened in June 2017 with a credit limit of £125. This was increased 
five times until it reached £1000 in May 2018. 
The seventh account was opened in June 2019 with a credit limit of £175. This was 
increased twice, reaching £375 in July 2019. 
Mr G says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit on each 
account and didnt make proper checks to find out if he was in financial difficulties.
J D Williams says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Mr G his account 
and also each time it increased his credit limit. It says his credit score remained positive 
and his balances under almost 70-80% of the credit limits, on average. He also made 
regular payments that were sometimes more than the minimum which meant he was 
considered for further credit increases. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint and thought that by May 2017 
J D Williams ought to have realised that Mr G wasnt in a position to sustainably repay 
any further credit on his accounts by the time it increased the credit limit on Mr Gs credit 
limit. As J D Williams doesnt accept our adjudicators the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into consideration a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the increases made to Mr Gs accounts up to April 2017 
didnt show or suggest irresponsible lending by J D Williams. She noted the evidence of 
income provided by Mr G, which was at that time around £2000-£2400 per month. 
However, she also thought that JD Williams ought to have carried out checks about 
Mr Gs committed expenditure when increasing the credit limits to accounts three and 
one, in January and February 2017 respectively. But she didnt think it was unreasonable 
for these limits to be increased, based on the what shed seen about Mr Gs income and 
the bank statements hed provided. And she noted that J D Williams were likely aware of 
Mr G having a historic default with another creditor elsewhere. When further credit limit 
increases took place, in March and April 2017, our adjudicator saw that Mr G had no 
arrears and was continuing to make repayments that always met the minimum required 
and sometimes exceeded it. As J D Williams gave Mr G further credit limit increases, he 
gradually began to use up increasingly more of his available credit limit. Overall, however, 
our adjudicator thought that there wasnt enough to show that Mr G was having financial 
difficulty to the extent that J D Williams shouldnt have increased his credit limits over this 
period. 
Our adjudicator also set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mr G with any additional credit from May 2017. In May 2017 J D Williams 
increased the credit limit on Mr Gs second account to £700, when the outstanding balance on the account at that point was £477.50. Mr G had a total credit limit by this time 
of £1400. Up to that time Mr G had made only one payment below the minimum required, 
for the third account in April 2017. But Mr Gs historic default against another account 
would probably have been available to J D Williams to see. And by this point Mr Gs bank 
statements and what hed told us about his costs showed it was likely that he wouldnt be 
able to take on further credit commitments, given that by this time his income had gone 
down to around £1600 per month. Taking into account his daily living costs and other debt 
commitments, Mr G would have been left with very limited disposable income. 
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
adjudicator did and for the same reasons. 
J D Williams said the credit limits it set were affordable for Mr G and that he was able to 
keep up with the minimum payments for each account. It also disputed that Mr Gs 
disposable income had dropped significantly in or around May 2017. Our adjudicator 
provided J D Williams with Mr Gs bank statements, showing that thered been a drop in 
Mr Gs income which would likely have left him in difficulty in meeting his overall minimum 
payment  with his ability to meet future payments worsening as he continued to use his 
increased credit limits. 
In making my decision Ive looked at these points as well as the overall pattern of 
J D Williams lending history with Mr G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
J D Williams should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it 
shouldnt have further increased Mr Gs credit limits. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, and based on the information Mr G 
and J D Williams have given, I agree with our adjudicator that a point was reached by 
May 2017 by which time J D Williams ought to have been aware that Mr G was no longer 
in position to meet his ongoing credit commitments, alongside his daily living expenses, 
such that any further credit would be unaffordable or otherwise harmful to Mr G. I also 
think that J D Williams ought not to have approved the opening of two further credit 
accounts  accounts six and seven  in June 2017. These new accounts had the effect of 
increasing Mr Gs overall credit limit to £6825. And it follows from that that any further 
increases by J D Williams to his accounts were unlikely to be suitable, given Mr Gs 
worsened financial situation following his drop in income. I also think its likely he would 
be unable to reduce the increasing debt on his account whilst at the same time having to 
meet his daily living expenses and other credit commitments. I therefore think 
J D Williams ought to have realised that there was a significant risk that increasing 
Mr Gs credit limit in these circumstances would lead to his indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably.
I therefore think that Mr G lost out because J D Williams provided him with further credit 
from May 2017 onwards. In my view, J D Williams should have realised by then that Mr G 
was in getting into financial difficulty and was likely to experience problems in meeting his 
monthly indebtedness to J D Williams, taking into account on his reduced level of income 
and the level of monthly living costs and sums owed to other creditors he need to meet. 
It follows that I agree J D Williams should put things right.Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Gs accounts to ensure that from 25 May 2017 onwards, interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1400, including any 
buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. 
All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on any account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr G to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mr G has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit 
file from 25 May 2017 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr G, along with 8% simple interest per year on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from 
Mr Gs credit file from 25 May 2017 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman