DRN-3431035
The complaint
Mr K complains Verex Insurance Services Limited didnt automatically renew his motor 
insurance policy when they should have done. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr K took out a motor insurance policy through Verex in January 2020. The letter said his 
policy would automatically renew, but it didnt. The policy lapsed on 17 January 2021. In 
September 2021, Mr K was pulled over by the Police for driving without insurance and is 
now facing criminal charges, costs and significantly increased insurance premiums. Mr K 
says hed not received any contact to tell him his policy wasnt going to renew, so he 
complained.
Verex said the reason Mr Ks policy didnt automatically renew, despite the letter of 
8 January 2020 telling him it would, wasnt due to their error as an agent had told him. They 
said when Mr Ks policy had renewed in January 2020, all their customers were offered the 
option of automatically renewing in future, as this option hadnt been available before. But 
the option still wasnt available in January 2021, due to technical delays and the pandemic. 
So, although theyd got customers consent for this, it wasnt available in January 2021.
Verex said theyd posted letters on 24 December 2020 and 12 January 2021, asking Mr K to 
get in touch to stop his policy from lapsing  and a third letter on 19 January 2021 to say his 
policy had now lapsed. They said regarding his point about not getting reminder calls or text 
messages as hed had in previous years, they werent obliged to do this. They said this is a 
courtesy, but due to staffing levels as a result of the pandemic, they couldnt do this.
Overall, they didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, but because one of their agents had misadvised 
him it was as a result of their error, they offered him £50 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr K asked us to look into things, saying he wasnt happy with this as it was their error not 
his  and theyd not used two different communication methods. As part of our process, we 
also asked Verex for their explanation of what had happened. In providing their information, 
Verex said they did send text messages, and provided evidence of this.
One of our Investigators looked into things, sharing the evidence of the text messages with 
Mr K. Ultimately, our Investigator felt Verex had shown theyd done enough, so he didnt 
think they needed to take any action.
Mr K didnt accept this, saying he wanted his case to be considered by an Ombudsman. So, 
as he didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Shortly afterwards, Mr K said he didnt want an Ombudsman to decide his case, until hed 
looked into the text messages with his phone provider  as he said hed never received 
them. Mr K has since provided further information regarding this  which Verex commented 
on. Weve arranged to ask for any final comments, but the deadline for those comments has 
now passed  so Ive gone ahead and looked into his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that in January 2020 Verex were planning on automatically renewing Mr Ks policy 
 but due to system issues and the pandemic they didnt.
I arranged for us to ask Verex if theyd contacted Mr K separately to the renewal letters 
theyd already provided to explain this  but they didnt. I think it would have been far better 
had they done so  given the importance of the renewal of motor insurance policies.
But, as they didnt, Ive looked at what they said they did send, to see whether I think theyve 
done enough to make Mr K aware he needed to take action for his policy to renew.
As Ive mentioned above, Verex say they sent two letters and two texts  although Mr K said 
when complaining he didnt get any of these.
Regarding the texts initially. Ive seen that Verex gave inconsistent information which isnt 
helpful. They said in the complaint response to Mr K theyd not sent any text messages, but 
in their reply to us they had. Ive quoted below Verexs reply to our service when asking for 
clarification on this point:
I have reviewed the letter and spoken with our complaint handler who provided the final 
response. We did have a period where we could not send text messages due to the 
pandemic and the complaint handler assumed this was part of that. In other words, our 
complaint handler failed to check the system for text messages and made the wrong 
assumption. This issue pre-dated Mr Ks case our apologies for the error. However, as 
evidenced by our system screen shots, the text messages were generated and sent.
Although its disappointing Verexs case handler made a mistake, I find this a plausible and 
reasonable explanation for the discrepancy. So, Ive looked at the screenshots provided. 
These do show two text messages being sent, to Mr Ks correct number.
The first text message was a 14 day reminder  sent by Verexs automated process on 
4 January 2021, at 12.06pm. This said Mr K dont forget to renew your case insurance. Call. 
See the benefits of staying with insurance today.
The second text message was a reminder four days before his policy lapsed. It was sent on 
14 January 2021 at 9.13am again by Verexs automated process. This said Your car 
insurance is about to expire. Renew today, call.
Im aware Mr K carried out some investigations on these text messages, as he doesnt 
believe they were sent despite the evidence Ive referred to above  which hes seen. Hes 
suggested the type of software used to send these text messages would record theyd been 
received and read by the recipient.
We put this to Verex, and they said their system doesnt have the type of software Mr K has 
referred to.Im aware that initially Mr K was going to his phone provider to get evidence no text 
messages were received by him. I cant see that evidence has been provided. So, as things 
stand, Ive no evidence to dispute the screenshots Verex have given me, saying the texts 
were sent. And, as I find the explanation given by Verex plausible about the contradictory 
information, I think its more likely than not the texts were sent to Mr K.
Turning to the letters Ive been provided with screenshots to show they were sent out to 
Mr K. Generally, wed say if Verex had sent the texts and letters, they cant be held 
responsible for them not arriving. Im satisfied based on the information provided so far, they 
did send the texts and letters.
Ive also noted, in an email exchange with his solicitors on 18 October 2021, Mr K said:
I only recall seeing one letter inviting me to renew (which I probably ignored as I knew I had 
authorised automatic renewal).
So, it seems Mr K did get at least one letter, and as Ive said above Ive seen evidence to 
suggest Verex did send both letters.
The first letter says, on the top right-hand side in a reasonable size box Call us to renew 
on and the first line of the letter says Its time to renewcall us on. In a heading 
towards the lower middle of the page under What to do now it says Renew 
todayotherwise your cover will end on 17 January 2021.
The second letter says, URGENT: Mr K; your renewal is due soon and asks him to call 
them to stop his policy lapsing.
Im also aware Mr K had arranged for his car insurance to be paid on a yearly basis. The 
premium for the year in question was around £650. So, this didnt come out of his account, 
and seemingly isnt something he noticed either  otherwise hed presumably have taken 
action.
Ive seen the difficult circumstances Mr K was in at the time, and he has my sympathies for 
those difficulties.
But, based on the current information Ive got, Im satisfied Verex sent two text messages, 
and two letters, alerting Mr K to the need to contact them regarding his renewal  and they 
didnt take a fairly large sum from his account when Mr K was seemingly expecting them to. I 
do think itd have been far more helpful if Verex had explained separately the automatic 
renewal wouldnt be happening anymore  but I think Verex did enough overall to make him 
aware he needed to contact them to renew his policy.
So, while I understand Mr K will be disappointed, I dont currently plan on asking Verex to do 
anything further. With that in mind, I think the £50 award Verex offered Mr K in their final 
response is a fair outcome for their admin error in giving him the wrong information on the 
phone. Mr K can contact Verex to accept it if he wishes - and theyve explained in their 
complaint response how he can do that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Verex replied, and said they had nothing further to add.Mr K initially replied, and said hed be back in touch by the deadline. But we then didnt hear 
anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Verex and Mr K didnt provide any further information to consider, Ive seen no reason to 
change the outcome Ive reached on this complaint. As Ive explained, I wont be asking 
Verex to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman