DRN-2887696
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly 
declined his application for a new account, which in turn meant he couldnt apply to the bank 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr B was an existing personal customer of NatWest and wanted to apply to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan. 
NatWest required customers without a business account to obtain a feeder account before it 
would consider an application for a Bounce Back Loan. The account would then be used to 
draw down and transfer onward any funds borrowed under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
So Mr B applied to NatWest for a feeder account, but the bank declined his application. 
When Mr B complained, NatWest maintained its decision. It said that the application hadnt 
met the banks criteria. 
Mr B referred the matter to us, as he believed he met all the eligibility criteria for a Bounce 
Back Loan and NatWest wasnt telling him why it wouldnt accept his application. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. She said that the application had been declined as it had failed the banks checks. 
And having looked at the information on which the decision was based, she thought it was 
reasonable. She also said that NatWest wasnt obliged to share any more information about 
its decision with Mr B. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, as he couldnt see how he couldve failed the 
banks checks. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. While it wasnt a 
requirement of the Scheme that applicants have, or enter into, a business relationship with a 
lender, it was up to each lender to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to those 
without one. 
NatWest required customers who didnt have a business relationship to open a feeder 
account before it would consider an application from them for a Bounce Back Loan. I think 
this was reasonable. The bank was required to carry out a number of checks under the 
Scheme before lending, including Know Your Customer, fraud and anti-money laundering 
checks. NatWest was able to conduct these checks through its account-opening process.
Mr Bs application failed these checks, so it was declined. Ive reviewed the information on 
which NatWest based this decision and I think it was reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr B would like to know the reason for NatWests decision, as he doesnt 
understand how his application could have failed the banks checks. But NatWest isnt 
required to disclose this and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require that it do so. All I 
can do is reassure Mr B that I have thoroughly reviewed how the bank considered his 
application and am satisfied that it didnt make an error in declining it.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman