DRN-3102314
The complaint
Miss T complains that J D Williams & Company Limited, trading as Jacamo charged 
excessive interest on her account and failed to provide information she requested 
concerning the account and then defaulted it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Miss T was surprised that Jacamo charged her interest of £30.79 after she had paid £600 
towards her balance of £672.39. I can understand her surprise, but as our investigator has 
confirmed the charge was in line with the terms and conditions of the account which Miss T 
had taken out some 10 years earlier. For the avoidance of doubt, I am also satisfied that the 
charge is correct.
However, Miss T was not happy with the response to her complaint and stopped payments 
while awaiting the information she requested. She asked for a copy of the terms and 
conditions and a breakdown of the interest charged. Jacamo failed to send this and Miss T 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that the lack of a reply from Jacamo had contributed to the problem 
and to a default being issued and the account being transferred to a debt collection agency. 
He noted that Miss T had written to Jacamo and said she was willing to pay what she owed 
to clear her account, but she wanted to ensure she had been charged the right amount. I 
think that was a reasonable request. I appreciate Jacamo did respond to her, but not in a 
way that she was persuaded the figures were right. Given the level of interest for one month 
I can fully understand her concern that there had been an error.
I have noted that Jacamo did send her notification of the default and it has said there was no 
guarantee Miss T would have paid off the balance I am inclined to believe that she would 
have done. It had become clear to her that the account was an expensive way of financing 
purchases and it made sense that it be closed. 
So, while I acknowledge that Miss T may have been more proactive I believe the key cause 
of the problem was the lack of a response from the business and so I consider I should 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
The business should provide redress as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct J D Williams & Company Limited 
to:
Provide Miss T with the breakdown of the interest that she requested.
Remove all added interest from the time Miss T first raised this complaint.
Remove the default from Miss Ts account, and any other markers it applied in 
relation to the disputed sum.
Allow Miss T to pay her balance and then close her account as she had requested. If 
she chooses to keep it open then the business will be entitled to charge interest 
going forward from one month after the date she accepts this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman