DRN-2825987
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds response to a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C insured her car with Admiral. Her son, who Ill refer to as R, is a named driver on her 
policy. R went to a friends house, who I'll refer to as L, in Mrs Cs car. R parked the car and 
left the keys in the kitchen while he and some friends enjoyed a social evening in an 
outhouse at the end of the garden.
At around 2am police knocked on Mrs Cs door. They told her that her car had been in an 
accident when it had crashed into a shop. Both the shop and the car were badly damaged. R 
was still at Ls house at that time. He said he thought the car was still parked outside. But he 
noted the key was missing as was the car. The police didn't ever take a statement from R or 
any of his friends about the nights events.
Mrs C told Admiral the next day that a thief had taken her car and crashed it. While Admiral 
was considering that claim the police officer looking into the matter (the investigating officer) 
spoke to Admiral. He told it he believed R was driving the car at the time of the accident and 
asked it not to pay the claim. Admiral instructed investigators to look into it. The investigators 
interviewed R and L. Admiral also asked the police for its report, the police didn't provide this 
for many months. After it received the police report Admiral refused to pay Mrs Cs claim. It 
did so because it thought R had been driving the car when it crashed into the shop and it 
thought that the theft claim was fraudulent.
Mrs C brought her complaint about Admirals decision to refuse her claim to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 April 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Cs made a number of detailed points. Ive considered 
everything that's happened and everything Mrs Cs said very carefully. But in this decision I 
don't intend to refer to every event or comment and instead will focus on what I see as the 
key issues.
Ive seen that initially Admiral was happy with the circumstances of the claim as Mrs C 
reported them and it was about to settle it. That was until the investigating officer rang it. I've 
listened to that call. The officer said that a dubious witness had told him R was driving the 
car at the time of the accident. The investigating officer said he believed that forensic testing 
on the cars air bags would show that R was driving at the time of the accident. And if that 
was the case he wouldn't need a witness statement from his dubious witness.
At that point Admiral put its claim decision on hold and instructed investigators to interview R 
and L. Admiral said there were some discrepancies between their two accounts. I agree 
thats the case. But I don't think the discrepancies automatically mean that the accounts 
aren't reasonable or point to them being fabricated. For example those discrepancies involve 
things like the time R arrived at Ls house, what drinks were consumed and where R had left 
his mobile phone. But R and L had clearly drank a fair amount of alcohol that evening. And 
the investigator took statements from them over two and three months respectively since the 
night of the theft. So, given the passage of time and the drinking of alcohol on the evening in 
question, I think some discrepancy in accounts is to be expected.
And, as Mrs Cs argued, had both accounts been identical, I think that would have pointed to 
collusion between R and L. The fact the accounts aren't identical is, I think, simply evidence 
that the two gave their accounts as they remembered them. So some discrepancies are to 
be expected.
One such discrepancy is that R told Admiral he was asleep when woken by friends to say 
that his parents had arrived to tell him about the theft. But L said that Mrs C had phoned him 
to tell him about the incident and L had then woken R. But, as I've said above, these 
statements were made months after an evening in which a fair amount of alcohol was 
consumed. And it seems that neither R nor L remembers the exact sequence of events. But I 
don't find such a discrepancy damming.
Further, Admiral has referred to what it describes as a significant discrepancy concerning 
where R spent the night after learning about the theft and crash. Rs statement indicates he 
spent the night at home. But L said R spent the night as his house. But I don't understand 
why Admiral thinks this discrepancy is so significant. It accepts that this statement related to 
a period after the crash. So it has no bearing whatsoever on the events leading to the claim. 
Also, when R initially gave his version of events to Admiral over the phone, he told it that 
hed spent the night at Ls house. R doesn't recall telling the investigator that he went home 
the same night. Although his signed statement does give the impression thats what he told 
the investigator. But I don't think it matters even if he did. He had nothing to gain by saying 
he went home rather than telling Admiral hed stayed at Ls house. And the fact he might 
have got some details confused while answering the investigator's questions two months 
after the event doesn't automatically mean he was lying about all the other events.
I've noted that the investigator didn't think R presented well at interview. He said R was 
nervous and agitated. But I think many people could be nervous or agitated while being 
interviewed by an insurers investigators. And there can be many reasons for that. It doesn't 
of itself mean that the individuals account shouldnt be believed.
I understand the investigating officer initially gave Admiral good reason to investigate further 
before paying the claim, given that he told Admiral he felt R had been driving the car at the 
time of the accident. The implication being that R had crashed the car while drunk before 
leaving the scene and then claiming the car was stolen. And the investigating officer felt that 
DNA evidence would prove that to be the case. But apparently the forensic evidence was 
inconclusive, although I note that the police report that I've seen doesn't refer to any 
forensic evidence at all. And the evidence that Admiral seems to be relying on from the 
police report isnt persuasive, as it doesn't even refer to R as a suspect.
Its clear that someone told the police officer that R was driving at the time of the accident. 
But theres no evidence from the police report to say who provided that information. They 
certainly didn't sign a statement to say that was the case, or  if they did - that statement 
hasn't made it onto the police report. And the investigating officer referred to the witness as 
being dubious. So Admiral doesn't know who gave the investigating officer that information, 
or how they knew the information they were providing was true.
Theres evidence on the police report that the shopkeeper, whose property was damaged in 
the crash, told the investigating officer that an anonymous source had told her R was driving at the time of the accident. But the shopkeeper was clear that this was information given to 
her anonymously. And she doesn't know where that anonymous source got the information 
from; so at best the evidence is hearsay and at worst its gossip. I certainly don't think it 
would be reasonable for Admiral to rely on that.
The police did get a signed witness statement from a neighbour of the shopkeeper who went 
to the scene after hearing the crash. He described hearing a young man on the phone telling 
someone hed just written me (his own) car off. In other words the neighbour felt hed heard 
the cars owner saying hed just crashed his own car. So I can understand why Admiral 
believed that this was evidence R had been driving the car. But the witness statement is 
incredibly light on detail. In particular it provides very little in the way of a description of the 
driver.
Also, while the matter has been awaiting my attention Mrs C has identified this witness. He 
was happy to give a further statement to Mrs Cs solicitor. In that statement the witness 
explained that he is hard of hearing and so was only a few feet away from the driver when 
he overheard the telephone conversation. But he also provided a description of the driver 
which doesn't match Rs appearance. I appreciate the witness gave this statement over 
three years after the events took place. But it does cast significant doubt on the evidence 
that it was R that was driving the car. And it seems likely that the witness might have simply 
misheard what he thought the driver said. If indeed the individual concerned actually was the 
driver of the car at the time of the crash. So I don't think it would be fair for Admiral to rely on 
this evidence in order to decline the claim and accuse Mrs C or R of acting fraudulently. 
So, while someone initially told the investigating officer R was driving the car at the time of 
the crash, Admiral remains unaware of who gave that information and how credible that 
evidence was. And ultimately the police chose not even to interview R let alone charge him 
with anything.
Admiral also told Mrs C that it found Rs statement that a thief had taken his car key from Ls 
kitchen implausible. It said that in order for that to happen, a thief would have had to enter 
Ls house from a rear door while not being seen by any of the people at Ls house, then find 
Mrs Cs car which was parked around the corner. But that is wrong on a number of points. It 
might help if I explain that R, L and their friends were playing pool in Ls man cave, which is 
an outhouse at the foot of his garden. Hed left the side door to his property unlocked so that 
his friends could use the loo. The door is at the side of the property not the back. And the 
side door is clearly visible from the road. So a potential sneak thief could have seen the door 
open and walked in without being seen by the people in the man cave at the foot of the 
garden. They could then have grabbed the car key, which shows the manufacturer of the 
car, and then spotted a car matching the key-fob parked just round the corner before 
stealing it. I think that's an entirely plausible explanation for the theft.
In addition Admiral said that Mrs C together with R made a fraudulent claim. That is it 
believed she or R told a deliberate lie in order for Admiral to pay it. I need to make clear that 
it's not my role to determine if someones acted fraudulently, as ultimately that's a matter for 
law enforcement agencies and the courts. But fraud is a serious allegation, it goes to 
someone's integrity, it alleges a criminal act (and might expose them to the risk of criminal 
investigation and prosecution) and it could have serious repercussions for an individual's 
ability to obtain insurance for years to come. So, before deciding a policyholder has most 
likely committed fraud, I think its reasonable that an insurer like Admiral has enough 
evidence on which to base such an allegation. And for the reasons given above I'm not 
convinced that it has.
While I think that the investigating officers comments gave Admiral legitimate reasons for it 
to be concerned and good cause to carry out further investigation, I think it should have revisited those concerns once it received the police report. The evidence that R was driving 
at the time of the accident is flimsy at best. It boils down to hearsay evidence from 
anonymous sources that can't be tested. And the one signed statement is from a witness 
whos evidence is based on something he believed he heard, from an individual who, we 
now know, doesn't match Rs description. And while there are some discrepancies between 
Rs and Ls statements I don't think that was sufficient evidence on which to fairly and 
reasonably say that the theft didn't take place, that R was driving at the time of the accident, 
or to support an allegation of fraud.
For completeness I know Mrs C was unhappy about Admirals conduct of its investigation. 
But, the outcome aside, I think it generally handled things reasonably. As Ive said above, 
the investigating officer gave Admiral legitimate cause for it to have concerns that the claim 
wasn't genuine. In those circumstances I think it was reasonable that it waited for the police 
to conclude their investigation and to see what the police report said. It took the police many 
months to provide that report. That was outside of Admirals control. So I don't think it was 
responsible for the majority of the delay in concluding the matter.
Mrs Cs also concerned that, owing to the passage of time, she lost the opportunity to 
present some evidence from phone records or other information held on mobile phones (for 
example a photo of R asleep). And she thinks Admiral could have given her more 
information about its investigation to prevent that. But I wouldn't expect insurers like Admiral 
to tell a policyholder it was investigating a potential fraud. And it wouldnt have known what 
evidence might or might not have been available on mobile phones or whether or not that 
might have been of any evidential use. That said, I can understand Mrs Cs frustration when 
she learned, around 20 months after the event, that some of the evidence could have proved 
useful. But I don't think that was because Admiral did anything wrong in that respect. That 
said, for the reasons given above, I don't think Admiral turned down Mrs Cs claim fairly. So I 
think it should pay that claim now. And, as Mrs Cs been without the use of that money, it 
should add simple interest to its claim settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
claim to the date it makes payment to her.
Also, I'm aware that, after declining the claim and accusing Mrs C of fraud, Admiral 
cancelled Mrs Cs policy that was in place at the time. Given that I don't think it had sufficient 
evidence to conclude that Mrs C or R had acted fraudulently I don't think that action would 
be fair. So, if Admiral cancelled her policy without providing a proportionate refund of any 
unused portion of the premium then I think it should provide Mrs C with that refund now. It 
should add simple interest to any refund paid from the date it cancelled the policy to the date 
it refunds her.
Further I'm aware that Mrs Cs had to spend a great deal of time and effort in defending her 
position. And the denial of her claim has clearly been a source of immense distress and 
inconvenience for her over a number of years. I think some of that could have been avoided. 
So, to address this I think Admiral should payer her £1,000 compensation.
Developments
Both Mrs C and Admiral accepted my provisional decision. Both also confirmed that Mrs Cs 
policy with Admiral lapsed; so Admiral didn't actually cancel it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral didn't cancel Mrs Cs policy before it reached the end of its term, it follows that there was no unused portion of it. So there is no refund for Admiral to pay. Otherwise, as 
neither Mrs C nor Admiral objected to my other provisional findings I see no reason to alter 
those. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Settle Mrs Cs claim for the theft of her car. It should add simple interest to that 
settlement at a rate of 8% a year, from the date she claimed to the date it makes 
payment.1
Pay her £1,000 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.