DRN-2405081
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr H, director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf. 
What happened
Mr H tried to claim on Es policy after E was impacted by the Governments actions in 
response to Covid-19. He complained to UKI about the way it had handled his attempt to log 
the claim, that it wouldnt accept his claim and how it dealt with his complaint. 
UKI said the policy didnt cover Es claim under either loss of gross income or the extension 
for disease. It said this was because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. And 
while the policy did cover interruption or interference to business as a result of a list of 
specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. UKI said it had tried to get in touch with Mr H 
after hed logged his details online and didnt think it had refused to log his claim. 
As Mr H remained unhappy with UKIs response, he brought his complaint to our service. He 
said the policys Summary document indicated that his claim should be covered because it 
showed cover for diseases. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
UKI had turned down Es claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He didnt 
think Covid-19 had caused damage to property and he also didnt think Covid-19 was one of 
the diseases covered by the disease extension. He thought the summary document made it 
clear that it should be read alongside the other policy documents which set out in more detail 
what was and wasnt covered. Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably in not 
taking the details of Es claim online. He also explained that we werent able to look at some 
aspects of Es complaint because they concerned complaint handling, rather than how UKI 
had dealt with Es claim. 
Mr H disagreed. He didnt think any policy automatically covered all new diseases and felt 
UKI should cover the claim when he was in a time of need. He referred to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case which he thought meant UKI should pay his claim. In 
terms of how UKI had dealt with Es claim, Mr H added that UKI had also refused to register 
his claim when he called. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Es business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be 
upholding Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Es claim. 
The relevant terms of Es policy are loss of gross income and Disease, which I consider in 
turn. 
Cover for Loss of Gross Income
This term covers E: 
In the event of the Business carried on by You at the Premises being interrupted or 
interfered with as a direct result of Damage for which liability has been admitted under 
Section 1 which results in a loss of Gross Income
Damage is defined in the policy as Loss, destruction or damage and Section 1 relates to 
Business Contents. Mr H has told us that Es business was interrupted as a result of the 
Governments actions in response to the pandemic. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to Es contents. So, I dont think this term covers Es claim. 
Extension for Disease
The relevant part of this extension covers a loss of gross income resulting from interruption 
or interference following:
b the occurrence of the following diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles,
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Bubonic 
Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, 
Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever 
at the Premises
c any of the diseases listed in item b above occurring within a 10 mile radius of the Premises
Unfortunately, this extension also does not provide E with cover in the current 
circumstances, as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified illnesses. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something UKI might have 
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Es policy sets out a specified list of illnesses 
which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it 
provides cover for illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. The 
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific illnesses. 
There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including SARS (another type 
of Coronavirus). Therefore, I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all disease.
I understand Mr H feels the Policy Summary suggests that E is covered for disease. But the 
Summary document says that the full terms and conditions are found in the Policy 
Document. So, I think the Policy Document needs to be read in conjunction with the Summary and I dont think the reference to Disease in the summary means that all 
diseases are covered. 
Mr H has also referred to the FCAs test case. However, the terms in Es policy were 
different to those considered in the test case, so I dont think the outcome of that case 
impacts Es claim. 
Our investigator has explained why we cant look at the aspects of Es complaint which 
involve UKIs handling of his complaint. So, I wont comment on those points further. 
However, I can comment on the concerns that relate to the handling of his claim. As Mr H 
has made a number of points Im going to deal with what I feel are the central issues. 
I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration at not being able to register Es claim on UKIs website, 
but I dont think UKI refused to accept Es claim at that time. I say that because the 
screenshot of the website says UKI wasnt able to deal with it online but was aware E 
wanted to make a claim and would get in touch, as Mr H had been able to log Es details. 
Mr H emailed UKI on 1 May 2020. UKIs contact notes show it tried to contact him on a 
number of occasions over the next few days. And I can see it emailed Mr H on 5 May 2020 
to say that it had tried to get in touch and asked Mr H to call. Mr H said UKI tried to call his 
landline rather than his mobile phone and only left one message. I can understand why Mr H 
was keen to get in touch with UKI, but I can also see UKI clearly tried to call him back a 
number of times and sent him an email asking him to get in touch. So, I dont think UKI was 
neglecting Mr Hs attempts to make a claim.  
UKI later said E hadnt made a claim but had instead raised general concerns about the 
website. I think it should have been clear to UKI that Mr H wanted to claim on his policy, as 
the screenshot of the website said UKI was aware E wanted to claim. However, I dont think 
this had an impact on Es claim overall, as UKI fairly declined the claim. I can also see that 
UKI provided an explanation on its website as to why its policy terms dont provide cover, 
which was available for Mr H. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for, but I dont think I can fairly require 
UKI to pay Es claim or do anything further.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman