DRN-2863873
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr N, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr N. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 35,000 miles so I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be fault free as may be the case for a new car. I think there would 
be an expectation of some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr N contacted Moneybarn within the first six months to tell them something was wrong with 
the car. Moneybarns system notes say:
Customer called to say that he is having problems with the car and its now out of warranty 
he says it is likely that it will cost a lot he is going to take it to the garage and see what needs 
doing.
I think Moneybarn would therefore have expected Mr N to get back to them and tell them the 
scope of the problem. I dont think it is fair to suggest they would need to take any action at 
that point to establish whether the fault was their responsibility to rectify. I think it was 
reasonable for them to wait for Mr N to get back to them.
Mr N didnt get back to them until February 2020 and as he fixed the problem himself 
Moneybarn have been deprived of any opportunity to consider, or commission, an expert 
opinion that would clarify if the problem Mr N fixed was present or developing when the car 
was supplied.
I therefore dont think it would be fair to suggest there has been sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate there was a fault with this car when it was supplied to Mr N and I dont think it 
would be reasonable to ask Moneybarn to take any further action.
I note that Mr N is disappointed with the end of lease charges Moneybarn have asked him to 
pay. Hes not complained to Moneybarn about that yet and hell need to before referring his 
complaint on that matter to this service if he remains dissatisfied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman