DRN-2840719
The complaint
Mr Gs complained that Santander UK plc mistakenly processed a payment three times  
leading him to lose confidence in their electronic payment transfer system.
What happened
Mr G has a current account with Santander.  He can operate the account using an app on 
his mobile phone.  And he can authorise payments using the phones Face ID capability.
In early 2021, Mr G used his phone to pay a tradesperson hed employed £300.  He says he 
did this as his phone was shutting down because the battery needed recharging.  When he 
checked the payment had gone through, he found it had been made three times  so hed 
paid a total of £900 for the work.  He contacted the tradesperson hed paid, who returned 
£600 to him.
Mr G says he only authorised the payment once.  So he was concerned that, if this 
happened again with a payment to someone less willing to return the overpayment, he could 
be out of pocket.  He complained to Santander that their system had made an error and 
processed the payment three times.
Santander investigated and rejected Mr Gs complaint.  They said that, despite Mr Gs belief, 
their specialist online banking team had confirmed the payment had been authorised three 
times.  And they would be able to trace if thered been any error in their system.
Mr G didnt accept Santanders conclusion and brought his complaint to us.  He told us he 
wanted Santander to admit their system had made an error.  And he wanted to be 
compensated for the worry about making future electronic transfers hed been caused.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and concluded Santander didnt need to do 
anything different to resolve it.  He wasnt persuaded three payments were made because of 
an error in Santanders system.  And he explained that, even if he was, he wouldnt say they 
should pay Mr G compensation because hed received the overpayment back the same day 
 so the impact on him was minimal.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
This is a straightforward issue.  A payment which was only supposed to have been made 
once was made three times.  Mr G says he only authorised the payment once.  So I 
understand why hed conclude the fault lies with Santander.  
Ive thought about this.  I cant decide why the payments were made.  But Ive seen 
Santander have checked their systems and havent found any errors.  
That doesnt mean I think Mr G is to blame.  Hes told us his phone was shutting down as he 
was making the payment.  So I dont know if  for example - it scanned his face and 
authorised the payment more than once.  But it does mean I can see there are other 
possible explanations than either Santander or Mr G is to blame.  And because Im not 
satisfied Santander is responsible for what went wrong, I cant say they should compensate 
Mr G for the payment going through three times.
I understand Mr Gs concern this could happen again  and that an overpayment might be 
made to someone whos unwilling to return it.  Im pleased to see that didnt happen here 
and the overpayment was returned to him by the tradesperson the same day.  So the impact 
on Mr G was minimal. 
I can only consider awarding compensation if something has gone wrong  not for what 
might happen in future.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to say Santander should compensate 
Mr G for what might happen  even if I thought the overpayment was their fault.  But I dont  
and for that reason I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman