DRN-2865235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 February 2020, Mr and Mrs L purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for Mr and Mrs Ls trip, including post- departure cover, with them going on holiday 
from 5 October 2020 to 13 October 2020. 
Following purchase of the policy, Mr and Mrs L made some alterations to the policy  for 
example declaring an additional medical condition. The premium they paid for the policy was 
£239.81 in total, after a discount of £18.53 was applied to the purchase. The policy included 
cover for eight medical conditions Mr and Mrs L declared.
Mr and Mrs L have explained that they received contact from their airline operator, on 22 
June 2020, to let them know they werent flying daily to Mr and Mrs Ls holiday destination at 
that time, and so the date of their flight had changed. 
A couple of weeks later, on 4 July 2020, Mr and Mrs L contacted Great Lakes, to let it know 
the flights had been changed, and to explain theyd like to cancel their travel insurance 
policy. At this point, Mr and Mrs Ls holiday hadnt been cancelled  it was in September 
2020 that the holiday provider let Mr and Mrs L know the holiday would no longer be going 
ahead. 
When Mr and Mrs L contacted Great Lakes on 4 July 2020, it said it wasnt able to provide 
them with a cash refund for their insurance policy  because it had been cancelled after the 
14 day cooling-off period the policy provided. But it gave Mr and Mrs L two options, as 
follows;
Mr and Mrs L could move their travel insurance cover dates, at no extra charge. As 
long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 months of when they originally 
purchased their travel insurance policy, and the holiday was for the same duration 
and destination.  
Or, Mr and Mrs L could be given a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused part of their 
travel insurance policy. It calculated the credit voucher from the date Mr and Mrs L 
called to cancel their policy on 4 July 2020, to the date the policy was due to end on 
13 October 2020. This equated to an amount of £88.15. Mr and Mrs L would be able 
to use this to purchase a new travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, whether this 
be a single or annual multi trip policy - so long as they did so within 36 months.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the above offers. They didnt feel the above options were fair  
and felt the pro-rata refund being offered to them should be provided in cash, rather than in 
the form of a voucher. 
As Mr and Mrs L were unhappy, they raised their concerns with Great Lakes. But it didnt 
change its position. Remaining dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to this 
service, for an independent review. When doing so, Mr and Mrs L explained that given the 
restrictions in place because of the global pandemic, and their own health conditions, they 
wouldnt be travelling abroad for the foreseeable future, and so a voucher would be of no 
use to them. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They set out 
the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of 
this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the 
insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep 
any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 10 February 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, and cover would have been available 
under the date Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cancelled in September 2020.
However, the investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. And they thought the offer Great Lakes had provided, to provide a pro-rata refund 
in the form of a credit voucher was fair. This offer had been based on the date Mr and Mrs L 
had called to cancel their insurance policy on 4 July 2020 (so before their holiday was 
cancelled), to the end date of the policy on 13 October 2020. 
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months. And it could be 
used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance policy. Mr and Mrs L could also 
transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if they would rather do this. And our 
investigator considered this fair.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They explained they understood 
that the refund should be calculated on a pro-rata basis. But they felt the fact the offer was 
being made in the form of a voucher, and not in cash, was still unfair. Mr and Mrs L said that 
with their health conditions it wasnt a safe option to travel, and they didnt see this changing 
for the length of the vouchers validity.
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs L said that it should make no difference to Great Lakes 
whether the refund was provided in cash, as they were already offering to provide a voucher 
for the same amount.
Because Mr and Mrs L remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr and Mrs L.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs L wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy. Their holiday would no longer be going ahead as a result of 
the coronavirus pandemic, and they were concerned about travelling given their medical 
conditions. But I dont think Mr and Mrs Ls reasons for cancelling their policy reasonably fall 
into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this because I dont think 
the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one 
which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The examples of exceptional 
circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the 
policyholders health. And these exceptions dont apply here. Mr and Mrs L have said there 
have been no changes in their health since they took out the policy. 
I have however taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
And in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any cancellation 
claim they may have needed to make. And the premium they paid included this cover. As 
Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable 
that Mr and Mrs L pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. And I can see Mr and Mrs L 
do accept this to be the case.
Mr and Mrs L didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of their holiday. And instead, 
on hearing their flight had been altered, called Great Lakes on 4 July 2020 to cancel the 
policy. Whilst Mr and Mrs Ls holiday hadnt been cancelled at this point, Great Lakes did 
offer to provide a pro-rata refund from 4 July 2020. I do think this offer is fair. It means Great 
Lakes isnt charging a premium from the point Mr and Mrs L asked to cancel  and 
recognises that from September 2020, when it was clear the holiday was no longer going 
ahead, there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure.
I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy at the point of cancellation (from 4 
July 2020 to 13 October 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances 
of this case. Mr and Mrs L have said that because of their health, and the government 
restrictions in place, they cant see them going on holiday for the 36-month period of the 
voucher. And I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs L feel this way. But I have to bear in mind they 
were willing to travel with their declared health conditions previously. And, Im satisfied the 
terms of the voucher arent unreasonably restrictive. It provides Mr and Mrs L with a number of options, including the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy for a different 
destination, or to gift the voucher to someone else.
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is fair and I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr and Mrs L differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount 
from the date Mr and Mrs L called to cancel their policy  4 July 2020, to the date the policy 
was due to end, 13 October 2020. This meant there would be 102 days of the policy unused, 
where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £88.15 of the premium paid. As this 
offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 102 days after the policy was 
cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman