DRN-3674673
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed his account and returned funds 
back to source.  He also complains he was treated badly and given conflicting information by 
staff at the bank. Mr T would like his account reinstated.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties and the investigator has outlined them 
in full detail in his view. So, I dont propose to repeat them here.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint and awarded Mr T a total of £300 in 
compensation for the poor customer service Mr T suffered.
Mr T has disagreed with the view issued by our investigator.
Mr T has said following the view and after requesting that the case go to final decision that 
he is not interested in compensation but would like his account reinstated.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of quite detailed submissions and also sought answers to his 
questions about the nature of Santanders investigations. Ive reviewed all the material he 
has submitted. Im not going to cover all the points raised by Mr T in his detailed 
submissions. No discourtesy is intended by this. I want to reassure Mr T Ive considered all 
of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point that Mr T has 
made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that 
with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most 
important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and the bank have 
said before reaching my decision. 
Mr T has said that he isnt interested in compensation but wants his account reinstated 
despite this I have commented on the aspects of the complaint that he previously raised.
Reviewing the account
Mr Ts account was reviewed following a payment into the account. The account was 
blocked during the review.
Financial businesses, like Santander, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. Financial institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of 
transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This 
applies to both new and existing relationships. These obligations override all other 
obligations. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ts account. 
Funds returned to Sender
Mr T received some funds into his account. Following information from the third-party sender 
Santander sent the remaining funds back to the sender. Mr T has told us and Santander that 
he was entitled to the funds paid into the account as it was payment for services agreed with 
a third party. 
Santander sent the funds back to source. I appreciate Mr T says hes entitled to the money 
that was originally paid into his account. Mr T has provided us with documentation which he 
says shows his entitlement to the funds, I have considered this information carefully. I 
appreciate that Mr T is saying the funds were provided in exchange for services and there 
was a legitimate agreement between himself and the third-party sender. But I also have to 
weigh this up against the information provided to me by Santander.  And based on the 
information Ive seen I agree that this was the right action in the circumstances. Im also 
satisfied that Santander were complying with their legal obligations when it returned the 
money to source. So, Im not going to direct Santander to return the funds to Mr T.
Service issues
Despite Mr T now saying he isnt interested in service issues I have gone on to consider the 
overall service Mr T received from Santander.
I can see Mr T had a wasted journey into branch to hand over documents which could have 
been emailed to Santander. In addition, Mr T contacted Santander on the phone on 
numerous occasions and was given somewhat inaccurate information regarding the disputed 
credit and the time it would take to unblock his account. 
Mr T has also told us he was badly treated by branch staff when he went into branch on two 
different occasions in November 2021 and later in December 2021.
Santander agreed that they should have done better and offered Mr T £200 compensation. 
Mr T rejected this. The investigator having reviewed the service issues agreed that Mr T 
should be awarded £200 in compensation for the service issues he encountered. Having 
reviewed the evidence, I am inclined to agree with the investigators assessment. I think 
£200 is a fair amount given the circumstances and I wont be increasing the amount.
Mr T was awarded a further £100 compensation by the investigator because Santander 
didnt process a benefit payment credit into his account. Santander should have continued to 
accept credits into Mr Ts account until the account closure date on 9 January 2022. 
Because of this Mr T was without his benefit payment for a further three weeks. He has said 
this caused him distress and inconvenience. This must have been difficult for Mr T. I think 
£100 is fair compensation for the error made by Santander which impacted Mr T as he didnt 
get access to some of his benefits in a timely fashion. 
CIFAS Marker
I know Mr T was concerned about a CIFAS marker. But having looked at the evidence I can 
confirm to Mr T that Santander didnt register a CIFAS marker against him but did a search 
on his CIFAS records. So, I cant agree with Mr T that Santander have registered a marker against him.
Mr T has mentioned he thinks he was declined for a data plan for his Apple watch because 
Santander shared information with CIFAS. As I mentioned Santander merely searched the 
CIFAS record so I cant see that Santander are responsible for Mr T being declined the data 
plan.
Closing the account
Santander decided to close Mr Ts account and gave him 30 days notice.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Ts account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account with less notice. In this case Santander closed 
Mr Ts account with 30 days notice. Having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im 
satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts 
as its already done. 
It follows I wont be asking Santander to reinstate Mr Ts account
Putting things right
To put things right Santander should pay Mr T £200 compensation for the service issues and 
£100 compensation for the delay in Mr T receiving some of his benefits.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partially uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mr T a total of £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman