DRN-2088773
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her a personal 
accident insurance policy in 1988.
What happened
In March 1988, Ms W was sold a personal accident insurance policy by Lloyds. The policy, 
which was underwritten by a particular insurer (which Ill call C), would pay a lump sum 
benefit in the event that Ms W suffered permanent injury following an accident.
In October 1988, Ms W was sold a hospital cash plan by Lloyds. The policy, which was also 
underwritten by C, would pay benefit in the event she was admitted for a stay in hospital. 
In 2010, Ms W was sadly diagnosed with MS.
In 2019, the insurer decided for commercial reasons to withdraw the policies from the 
market. It wrote to Ms W to explain this.
Ms W complained to Lloyds about the fact the policies were being withdrawn, thus leaving 
her without cover, particularly in view of her MS diagnosis.
In respect of the hospital cash plan, Lloyds offered to pay Ms W £2,490 without any 
admission of liability but in consideration of the fact that the policy had been withdrawn and 
based on her personal circumstances. Ms W accepted the offer.
In respect of the personal accident policy, Lloyds said if she was unhappy at the policy being 
withdrawn, she should complain to C. Ms W, however, said she was complaining because 
she considered she should never have been sold the policy in the first place and that shed 
been pressured into taking it out.
Lloyds issued a final response letter not upholding her complaint. It said that due to the time 
which had elapsed, it no longer had records to show exactly how the policy was sold or what 
was discussed. However, it said the insurer would have issued Ms W with a welcome pack 
which would have outlined the nature of the cover and the fact that it could be cancelled at 
any time.
Ms W was unhappy at Lloydss response. She referred her complaint to us. She said she 
thought it was wrong that she had been sold two policies so closely together offering similar 
cover. She said she wouldnt have agreed to take out the personal accident policy if shed 
been given full information about it.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered the 
policy was likely to have been sold via a mailing on a non-advised basis but that the policy 
was suitable for Ms W in any case. He furthermore considered that Ms W had appeared 
unhappy at Cs decision to withdraw the policy which indicated that she had wanted the 
policy and had no wish to cancel it. He pointed out that if Ms W wished to complain about the 
withdrawal of the policy, she needed to address that complaint to C.
Ms W didnt accept the investigators findings. She said it was Cs withdrawal of the policies 
in 2019 which caused her to examine more closely the events at the time of sale in 1988. 
She considered that Lloyds had advised her to take out the policies. She maintained that 
when Lloyds sold her the hospital cash plan it should have advised her to cancel the 
personal accident policy because it then became unnecessary.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint concerns the sale of the personal accident policy by Lloyds. Ms W has also 
complained to C about its decision to withdraw the policy from the market. However, I cannot 
consider Ms Ws complaint about Cs decision within this decision.
There is very little evidence from the time of sale. However, I do not find this surprising given 
that it was over twenty years ago.
Lloyds says the policy was sold through a mailing on a non-advised basis. This means that 
Lloyds would not have needed to ensure the policy was suitable for Ms W though it would 
have been obliged to provide her with sufficient information to enable her to make an 
informed decision as to whether to take out the policy.
Ms W disputes this and says the policy was sold in-branch on an advised basis. This would 
mean Lloyds had specifically recommended the policy and should have first asked Ms W 
questions to establish that it was suitable for her needs.
I consider it likely that the policy was sold a non-advised basis. In other words, Lloyds drew 
attention to the availability of the cover but it was up to Ms W to determine whether it was 
something she needed. However, I dont think it matters either way because I consider Ms W 
hasnt shown the policy was unsuitable in any event.
The personal accident policy would have provided a lump sum benefit in the event she 
suffered a permanent disability as a result of an accident. There is no reason to assume she 
couldnt have benefitted from the policy if shed been unfortunate enough to have needed to 
claim. And her eligibility to claim wasnt affected by the hospital cash plan that she later took 
out. There was some duplication in that if she suffered an accidental injury which caused her 
to be hospitalised, it was possible that she would have received benefit under both policies 
but otherwise the policies were designed to offer different types of cover.
Furthermore, my opinion that the policy was suitable for her needs seems to be shared by 
Ms W given that she was well aware the policy existed and she chose to hold on to it for 
over twenty years. Indeed, when she made the complaint to C it was because she 
apparently wanted the cover to continue. I find this rather undermines her claim that she had 
never wanted or needed the policy.
Ms W says she wasnt made aware of the nature of the cover. But she has acknowledged 
that she holds the policy document which was sent to her at the time she took out the policy. 
This is only a few pages long, so is not difficult to read, and it explains what the policy 
covers. Im therefore not persuaded by her argument that she didnt know what was covered 
under the policy.In summary, Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Ms Ws needs. Furthermore, Ms W was 
aware that she held the policy and should reasonably have understood what cover it 
provided. She could have cancelled the policy at any time simply by cancelling her direct 
debit payment for it. She instead chose to retain the policy for over twenty years until the 
insurer, C, chose to withdraw the policy from the market. I do not see any reasonable 
grounds for concluding that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman