DRN-4368513
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) wrote to 
her saying it was going to put a stop on her account as she hadnt transacted on the account 
in three years. Mrs R says she was inconvenienced by having to visit a branch to have this 
matter resolved and is unhappy with the service she received when she raised her complaint 
and disputes that Virgin Money have paid out the proceeds of her account. Mrs R wants to 
be compensated for the transport costs and her time in visiting a branch and wants to 
receive the full proceeds of her account.  
What happened
Mrs R held a savings account with Virgin Money. Virgin Money wrote to Mrs R on 3 May 
2023 saying that it had been almost three years since it had heard from Mrs R and wanted to 
make sure the details it had for her were correct. Virgin Money asked Mrs R to get in touch 
providing her with the options of doing this online, visiting a branch (with ID), completing and 
returning a form or calling it. The letter explains if it doesnt hear from Mrs R within the next 
three months it will take steps to protect her account and she will only be able to access her 
money once it reconfirms her ID.
Mrs R visited a branch of Virgin Money on 22 May and completed a transaction and 
reactivated her account - so it was no longer classified as dormant. While there Mrs R raised 
a complaint about this. She says getting to the branch was over an hours bus ride for her 
and she wasnt told she needed two forms of ID. She says the account is a savings account 
which is why she doesnt use it often and that it is incorrect that the last transaction was 
almost three years ago as there was a transaction in June 2022. She also says she last 
visited a branch 10 months earlier. 
Following this Mrs R further complained that she was promised a call back within 48 hours 
but never received one. Mrs R decided to close her account and disputes that the full 
proceeds were paid to her.
Virgin Money didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It says it has procedures in place to ensure 
customers are aware and fully up to date in relation to their investments  one such 
procedure is asking the customer to get in touch when there having been any transactions 
over a period of 2 years 9 months. Virgin Money says it provided Mrs R with a number of 
options to get in touch and it was her choice to visit a branch. It says it called Mrs R back 
within 48 hours but that as she didnt answer it sent her a letter dated 25 May.
Mrs R was dissatisfied with this and so brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Rs concerns but didnt think Virgin Money had done anything 
wrong  Virgin Money had provided numerous options for Mrs R to get in touch and it had 
responded to her complaint within the 48 hours and the evidence showed that the last 
transaction on her account that wasnt an interest payment was a £100 on 30 July 2020. 
Furthermore, the transactions on her account show that the full proceeds of the account had 
been paid out in two payments  one for £21,000.14 and one for £53.89 which totalled the 
£21,054.03 she was expecting.
Mrs R disagreed. and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mrs R has experienced and see if Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong or treated her unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs R back 
in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs Rs main complaint is that she had to go into a branch of Virgin Money with ID to remove 
the stop applied to her account and that this inconvenienced her. But I cant see Virgin 
Money has made an error or did anything wrong when it wanted to check Mrs R was still 
aware of her account, how much she held in it and still wanted it. 
Virgin Money needs to ensure the safe custody of its customers investments and protect 
them against fraud or theft. And while I wouldnt tell a bank what procedures it needs to put 
in place to do this, I dont think its unreasonable when an account hasnt had any activity in 
a while it asks the customer to get in touch.
Mrs R says she went into a branch of Virgin Money 10 months earlier and that the last 
transaction on the account as shown on her passbook was in June 2022. But Virgin Money 
has no record of Mrs R visiting a branch and the transaction she is referring to was an 
interest payment  which wasnt initiated by her so doesnt qualify.
I appreciate that Mrs R has been inconvenienced by all of this, but these matters are a 
necessary part of life and it was Mrs Rs choice to go into branch when she did. Virgin 
Moneys letter makes it clear there were a number of other options to get in touch and 
confirm the status of her account and that she had three months to do this. So I dont think 
Virgin Moneys request was unreasonable and I dont think it did anything wrong. 
Mrs R is also unhappy that Virgin Money failed to call back within 48 hours as promised. But 
Virgin Money say it called twice on 25 May and as it didnt get an answer it sent Mrs R a 
letter. And Mrs R has told us she did receive a call but wasnt able to pick it up in time. So 
again, I cant say that Virgin Money did anything wrong here  it tried calling and when it 
wasnt able to get hold of her it sent her a letter all within 48 hours.
Finally, Mrs R disputes that Virgin Money transferred the full amount of her savings out of 
her account. But having looked at her statements I can see that she received two payments, 
one for £21,000.14 and one for closing interest of £53.89 which totals the figure she says 
she was expecting to receive. So I dont think there is anything more for Virgin Money to do 
here.
So as I dont think Virgin Moneys actions have been unreasonable and because I dont think 
Virgin Money has made any errors, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman