DRN-2962847
The complaint
Mr P complains that ReAssure Limited reduced the pension it had told him he would receive 
if he deferred his retirement and is unable to explain why it believes earlier quotations it 
provided were incorrect.
In order to put matters right Mr P wants ReAssure to either increase his annual pension by 
2.5% or pay him a one-off lump sum of £6,500.
What happened
In April 2016 Guardian (now part of ReAssure) wrote to Mr P about his pension options as 
he was approaching his normal retirement date at age 60. It set out that Mr P would receive 
a pension of £14,365.92 per year based on a pension pot of £168,709.27 if he took his 
pension benefits in October 2016.
Mr Ps pension was a buy-out plan from an occupational pension scheme and had a 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) attached. It appears Mr P did not want to take his 
benefits at that time and asked Guardian how much he would receive at different ages, if he 
deferred taking his pension benefits.
On 4 May 2016 Guardian wrote to Mr P, it said that if he deferred taking his pension benefits 
until age 75, he would receive a pension of £35,452.20 per year with a spouse's pension of 
50% of this amount if Mr P pre-deceased his wife.
On 16 May 2016 Guardian wrote to Mr P again. It provided the following information:
Benefits payable at age 61
Fund Value - 174,150.86
An annual pension of £15,088.20 followed by a Spouse's/Civil Partner's annual pension of 
£7,544.16.
Benefits payable at age 62
Fund Value - £179,973.42
An annual pension of £15,865.92 followed by a Spouse's/Civil Partner's annual pension of 
£7,932.96.
Benefits payable at age 65
Fund Value - £199,699.93
An annual pension of £18,593.04 followed by a Spouse's/Civil Partner's annual pension of 
£9,296.64
Based on this information Mr P decided to defer taking his pension benefits.
On 24 August 2016 Guardian wrote to Mr P again. It issued a key facts illustration and 
confirmed that Mr P would receive a pension of £14,365.92 based on a pension pot of 
£168,709.27 if he took his pension benefits in October 2016.
On 31 December 2016, ReAssure acquired policies from Guardian Financial Services. Mr 
Ps policy was included in the acquisition. It wrote to Mr P and confirmed that:
Following the transfer, your policy will continue to be administered on a separate system to 
existing ReAssure policies. However, during 2017 we intend to move the majority of 
ReAssure policies onto a single system (this is not dependent on the proposed transfer). 
This move will not impact customers benefits or conflict with policy terms and 
conditions. If any minor changes to the administrative operational practices of your policy 
are required, we will write to you in advance with details.
Mr P asked for up-to-date pension figures in May 2019. ReAssure said that if Mr P took his 
pension benefits at age 75, he would receive a pension of £30,710.28 per year.
Mr P was very concerned that the pension he would receive at age 75 had apparently 
reduced by nearly £5,000 per year and queried the matter with ReAssure.
Initially ReAssure simply said that Mr P had been sent incorrect information in 2016 and 
offered to pay him £150 for any inconvenience this had caused.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and asked it to explain why it believed that 
the pension benefit information he was provided with in 2016 was wrong.
ReAssure said it couldnt explain why the information Mr P had received in May 2016 was 
incorrect. It provided responses to some queries Mr P had raised and increased its offer to 
compensate Mr P to £200.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator said she felt the £200 ReAssure had offered to pay Mr P for the incorrect 
information he received in 2016 was fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
She noted that Mr P said he had now taken his pension benefits from his ReAssure plan and 
was receiving an annual income of £13,108.56 after taking a tax-free cash lump sum.
As ReAssure had said it didnt have a record of the calculations that were carried out in 
2016, our investigator said it wasnt able to explain why the figures Mr P had been provided 
with at that time were incorrect. But likewise, she said she hadnt seen anything to suggest 
that ReAssures calculations in 2019, were incorrect. As this was the case, she said she 
couldnt safely find that ReAssure had made an error in its calculations.
She explained that in such situations this service would normally look to put the complainant 
back in the position they would have been in, had the correct information been given, rather 
than requiring a business to honour the incorrect information it had provided.
She said she didnt think Mr P had suffered a financial loss because the pension he was now 
receiving was the amount he was entitled to receive. But she felt Mr P had suffered a loss of 
expectation. She said she felt the £200 ReAssure had offered for the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused was fair and reasonable.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He said he felt ReAssure should have kept 
adequate records of the information it provided to him in 2016.I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 July 2021. In my provisional decision I 
explained I thought ReAssure needed to do more to address the points Mr P raised in his 
complaint. I also said I thought that the redress it had offered was insufficient for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused Mr P. I explained my provisional decision as follows.
final response letter
I noted that in the final response letter ReAssure sent to Mr P it said:
Q -You've received 2 letters with valuations in 2016. One in Aug 2016 and one on 16 May 
2016. You'd like to know if the calculations in both letters are correct or incorrect?
A - We've already confirmed the information in Guardian's letter from 24 August 2016 was 
incorrect. We have checked the projected values issued by Guardian on 16 May 2016, for 
age 61, 62 and 65 and they are also incorrect. As confirmed previously, we can't see what 
calculations Guardian used, so we cant confirm why they are incorrect.
Having checked the records that had been provided to this service I noted that the illustration 
dated 24 August 2016 used the same figures as the personal illustration dated 25 April 2016 
 which ReAssure had said was correct. I asked ReAssure to explain why it had said the 
illustration dated 24 August 2016 was incorrect.
I also noted that the final response letter said:
Q - You still havent received your 2018 statement.
A - Your 2018 statement is in the process of being produced and will be sent to you shortly. 
Im sorry that its taking us longer than I would have liked, to send this to you, but it has been 
referred to our Actuarial Team to send to you urgently.
I asked ReAssure to provide this service with evidence that the 2018 statement was 
provided to Mr P, as it had promised in its final response letter.
ReAssure responded to say that the projected values that were provided to Mr P by 
Guardian on 16 May 2016, for age 61, 62 and 65 were incorrect. It reiterated that it didnt 
have access to Guardians calculations so it couldnt explain why they were incorrect. But it 
did not explain why it had said, in the final response letter it sent to Mr P, that the illustration 
dated 24 August 2016 was incorrect.
It also said it cannot locate any statements from 2017 & 2018 and was unable to provide 
anything to show that it had provided Mr P with his 2018 statement, despite having promised 
to send this to him urgently.
As ReAssure had not addressed the points I had raised I again asked it to explain why it had 
said the illustration dated 24 August 2016 was incorrect. It again didnt address this point 
and said: we have already provided you with the information that we hold and cannot 
provide you with further information, as we do not have what you are asking for.
I said I didnt think it was reasonable for ReAssure not to address these points. And I said I 
was satisfied that Mr P was entitled to expect ReAssure to properly investigate his 
complaint. 
ReAssure said it was unable to explain why Mr P was given incorrect information in 2016 
about the pension he would receive if he deferred taking his pension benefits. It also 
repeatedly claimed the information it issued to Mr P on 24 August 2016 was incorrect 
despite the figures being the same as those issued in the illustration dated April 2016  which it said was correct. And it failed to show that it had provided Mr P with the 2018 
statement it had promised to send urgently.
In view of this I said I couldnt reasonably say that Mr P could have confidence in the 
investigation ReAssure had carried out into his complaint.
calculations
I explained that I had carefully considered whether there was anything to suggest that the 
revised pension figures Mr P was provided with in 2019 were incorrect and the figures 
quoted in May 2016 were correct.
I said I thought it was more likely than not that the calculations in May 2016 were incorrect, 
but I was of the view that ReAssure needed to do more to satisfy both Mr P and this service 
that this was the case.
I noted that ReAssure had said that the methodology and escalation rates it used to 
calculate deferred annuities was the same as those used by Guardian in 2016, when it says 
the wrong figures were provided to Mr P. I reviewed the calculations ReAssure sent to Mr P 
on 25 July 2019 setting out the percentage increase that would be applied for each year 
Mr P deferred taking his pension benefits.
I said it seemed to me the most likely explanation for the incorrect figures provided in May 
2016 was that the fund value for Mr Ps pension pot had been input incorrectly and the 
impact of this error was then compounded in the subsequent calculations. I also noted that it 
was possible an incorrect escalation rate had been applied.
But as this service does not offer a calculation checking facility and we do not have the 
resources to carry out detailed workings to try to identify where the errors in the May 2016 
calculations had occurred, I was unable to determine how the errors had arisen.
In order to address Mr Ps concerns, I said ReAssure should re-check whether the 
escalation rates that were applied in the calculations sent to Mr P in July 2019 were correct.
In summary, I said I appreciated that ReAssure did not have a record of the calculations 
Guardian carried out in 2016. But given the apparent errors and incorrect claims that had 
been made in ReAssures investigation of Mr Ps complaint I said I thought it needed to do 
more to satisfy Mr P that his complaint had been properly investigated and the points in his 
complaint had been addressed.
In view of ReAssures failure to properly address Mr Ps complaint, I said I thought that the 
redress ReAssure had offered to pay Mr P was too low.
In order to put matters right my provisional decision was that ReAssure should:
- provide this service and Mr P with a clear and concise explanation addressing why it had 
repeatedly said that the illustration dated 24 August 2016 was incorrect when the figures in 
the illustration were the same as the figures, described by ReAssure as correct, in the 
illustration issued to Mr P dated 25 April 2016. I said ReAssure should provide this 
explanation in its response to my provisional decision;
- if ReAssure was unable to provide a satisfactory explanation I said it should pay Mr P £250 
(in addition to the award for the trouble and upset this matter has caused) for its failure to 
address this point;
- check and confirm whether the escalation rates that were applied in the calculations sent to 
Mr P in July 2019 were correct;- provide Mr P with the 2018 statement it said would be sent urgently in its final response 
letter;
- pay Mr P a total of £500 for the trouble and upset its poor service had caused.
Both Mr P and ReAssure responded to my provisional decision.
ReAssure said it was disappointed with my provisional decision and felt our investigators 
view was a fair and reasonable outcome.
It reiterated its view that the projected values issued by Guardian on 16 May 2016, for age 
61, 62 and 65 were incorrect but as it didnt have access to the calculations the projected 
values had been based on it didnt know why they were incorrect.
Somewhat confusingly it also said; We have only said that the pension originally quoted at 
age 75 was wrong. 
It again failed to provide an explanation addressing why it had repeatedly said that the 
illustration dated 24 August 2016 was incorrect when the figures in the illustration were the 
same as the figures, described by it as correct, in the illustration issued to Mr P dated 25 
April 2016. 
Mr P also responded to my provisional decision. He kindly corrected an error in my 
provisional decision. I said the Key Facts Illustration dated 24 August 2016 had been issued 
by Guardian. This was incorrect, the illustration dated 24 August 2016 was issued by 
ReAssure, not Guardian (as by this date ReAssure had acquired Mr Ps pension plan).
Mr P made the following points in relation to my findings:
-The Key Facts Illustration from ReAssure dated 24 Aug 2016 confirmed that 
Guardian and ReAssure were using exactly the same fund value to calculate the 
pension.
-ReAssures final response letter of 2 Oct 2019 said The fund value is calculated 
using rates for converting the guaranteed pension into a cash (fund) value. These 
rates are determined by ReAssure and may change at any time.
In view of this Mr P said he did not understand why I had said that it seemed to me the most 
likely explanation for the incorrect figures provided in May 2016 was that the fund value for 
Mr Ps pension pot had been input incorrectly and the impact of this error was then 
compounded in the subsequent calculations. (I also noted that it was possible an incorrect 
escalation rate had been applied.)
Mr P said he was of the view that it was, much more likely that the Guardian rates were 
just more generous than ReAssure rates.
He also said that:
ReAssure emailed me on 10 June 2019 stating that the pension would be increasing by 
0.6% each year to age 75. In a letter of 18 June the rate of increase became 0.1%. Their 
letter to me of 25 July tabulates increases of 4% + per annum. The bonus element was 
stated as being £6,453.10 in an annual statement and £4,302.02 in an email of 2 Aug 2019. 
The annual statement showed a fund value of £18,989.66 and should have been 
£180,989.66 but was typed incorrectly by ReAssure.
All these are incorrect figures provided by ReAssure (and dont forget ReAssure were still 
typing figures in 2019) so it seems to me, on the balance of probabilities, if anyone has 
provided incorrect figures that it is far more likely that ReAssure used incorrect figures.Guardian wrote to me on 3 separate occasions in 2016, 25 April, 4 May and 16 May (as sent 
in my original complaint letter). The letters of 4 May and 16 May are from different people at 
Guardian. I find it difficult to believe that 2 or possibly 3 different people at Guardian all 
provided incorrect calculations.
Mr P also noted that, despite having told him in October 2020 that it would provide him with 
a copy of his 2018 statement, he still hadnt received it. Mr P said he hadnt received his 
2017 statement either and he would like ReAssure to provide copies of both these 
statements.
In summary Mr P said that if ReAssure wasnt able to provide evidence to show that the 
pension figures provided by Guardian in May 2016 were incorrect, he didnt think it was fair 
for ReAssure to refuse to honour the pension figures Guardian had provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld and that the 
redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ps position but, as I set out above, I think it is more likely than not 
that the calculations carried out by Guardian in May 2016 were incorrect. But I remain of the 
view that ReAssure should have done more to satisfy both Mr P and this service that this 
was the case.
I note Mr P has referred to ReAssures explanation in its final response letter dated 2 
October 2019 that the fund value of his pension pot would be calculated using rates for 
converting the guaranteed pension into a cash (fund) value. These rates are determined by 
ReAssure and may change at any time. 
As ReAssure has explained, because Mr Ps pension plan had a GMP attached it was 
unlikely it would be in his best interests to transfer his pension pot to another provider as this 
would mean giving up the GMP he was entitled to. Although the value of his pension pot was 
not guaranteed this would only be relevant if he chose to transfer his pension pot to another 
provider. 
I apologise if I have caused Mr P any confusion when I said I thought it was possible that 
Guardian may have input an incorrect fund value when it carried out its calculations in May 
2016. It might have been helpful if I had also explained that this may have led to an incorrect 
pension payable at age 60 being used in its calculations. It is the pension payable that the 
escalation (the percentage increase) is applied to, not the fund value. (So, rather than using 
£14,365.92 as the pension Mr P would have received at age 60 it is possible a different 
pension payable amount was used as the starting point for Guardians calculations in May 
2016.)
As I explained previously, this service does not offer a calculation checking service. But if 
Mr P is still not satisfied that ReAssure used the same escalation rates as Guardian when 
calculating the pension he would receive, its open to him to demonstrate why and, if he 
deems it necessary, commission a rerun of the calculations. But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, this wouldnt necessarily result 
in the outcome sought by Mr P  which is for ReAssure to pay him the pension Guardian 
said he would receive in its May 2016 letters. If we were satisfied that ReAssure had 
undertaken the calculations in good faith, but that minor errors had been made, its likely that 
we would simply require it to rerun the calculation using the same methodology and 
escalation rates which ReAssure says Guardian used in its calculations. 
Mr P has also referred to what he feels are errors ReAssure made when discussing the 
escalation rates if he deferred taking his pension benefits. He says:
ReAssure emailed me on 10 June 2019 stating that the pension would be increasing by 
0.6% each year to age 75. In a letter of 18 June, the rate of increase became 0.1%. Their 
letter to me of 25 July tabulates increases of 4% + per annum. 
I note that ReAssure explained why different escalation rates had been given in its email to 
Mr P dated 2 August 2019. It said:
In order to answer your query in relation to the different growth rates that you have been 
quoted within three different items of correspondence you have referred to I am going to deal 
with the GMP (Guaranteed Minimum Pension) and non GMP elements separately.
Firstly the GMP element of your pension starts to accrue an additional value from age 65, if 
you decide not to take your benefits at that time. The rate of increase is 1/7 of 1% for each 
week that you do not take your pension after you are 65. The rate of 7.43% is the annualised 
equivalent growth rate and that is what has been quoted within the letter of 23 January 2019.
The second element of your pension is the non GMP element. The growth rate on this 
element applies from age 60 and is normally similar to the growth rates that fixed interest 
securities achieve typically this has been around the 4 to 6% rate based on historic returns 
but this is not guaranteed. This is what the letter of 18 June and 25 July 2019 are explaining 
and showed a year on year increase in the pension and I am sorry that these letters were 
not clearer.
Having very carefully considered this matter I remain of the view that it is more likely than not 
that an error (or errors) were made in calculations Guardian provided to Mr P in May 2016. 
It is disappointing that ReAssure has not been able to explain how the errors arose and as I 
set out in my provisional decision, I think it should compensate Mr P for the trouble and 
upset its poor service has caused.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr P has asked for a copy of the 2017 statement, 
as well as the 2018 statement that has still not been provided by ReAssure. ReAssure 
should provide Mr P with a copy of statements for 2017 and 2018.
I note that ReAssure has not provided this service and Mr P with a clear and concise 
explanation addressing why it repeatedly said that the illustration dated 24 August 2016 was 
incorrect when the figures in the illustration are the same as the figures, described by 
ReAssure as correct, in the illustration issued to Mr P dated 25 April 2016. As it has not 
provided a satisfactory explanation, as I set out in my provisional decision, it should pay Mr 
P £250 (in addition to the award for the trouble and upset this matter has caused) for its 
failure to address this point.
Putting things rightIn order to put matters right ReAssure should:
- pay Mr P £250 (in addition to the award for the trouble and upset this matter has caused) 
for its failure to provide this service and Mr P with a clear and concise explanation 
addressing why it has repeatedly said that the illustration dated 24 August 2016 was 
incorrect when the figures in this illustration were the same as the figures, described by 
ReAssure as correct, in the illustration issued to Mr P dated 25 April 2016;
- check and confirm whether the escalation rates that were applied in the calculations sent to 
Mr P in July 2019 were correct;
- provide Mr P with the 2018 statement it said would be sent urgently in its final response 
letter;
- provide Mr P with a copy of the 2017 statement he says he has still not received; and
- pay Mr P a total of £500 for the trouble and upset its poor service has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right ReAssure Limited 
should pay Mr P the redress and provide the information detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman