DRN-3211330
The complaint
Mr U complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed his account to become 
overdrawn and that it passed his account to collections. 
What happened
Mr U complained to HSBC that it allowed his account to become overdrawn in 2013 by 
authorising transactions when he didnt have sufficient funds in his account. He is also 
unhappy with the collections process and that HSBC passed his debt to an external agency 
which caused him great stress.
HSBC investigated and found that although all the correct procedures had been followed in 
its collections and recoveries team the timing of the demand letter couldve been better and 
what happened in December 2013 isnt in line with what it would do today and compensated 
Mr U £50 as a gesture of goodwill. It further refunded Mr U amounts of £81.64 and £121.07 
representing the amount applied to his account for interest in charges while it was in 
collections. 
HSBC says all unarranged overdraft charges were pre-notified to Mr U in advance and 
applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of his account and that in an effort to 
support Mr U it had refunded £200 worth of charges.
  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Us concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC 
had done enough to settle his complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr 
U disagreed he wants to be compensated £5,000 for the stress caused by having the debt 
passed to an external agency. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. This 
service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role isnt 
to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr U is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC when his account entered the 
collections process in 2013. HSBC correctly followed its collections process at the time but I 
can see that HSBC has agreed the tone of its letter couldve been better and has 
compensated Mr U £50 for this. And in an effort to assist him while in collections it refunded 
him a further £81.64 and £121.07 in charges and interest. This is in line with what I would 
expect HSBC to do so I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more here.
Mr Us other complaint is about the level of charges applied to his account when he went into 
unarranged overdraft. The charges were all notified to Mr U prior to being applied and that 
they were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So I cant 
say that HSBC has done anything wrong here. 
I understand the Mr U may not have wanted HSBC to have authorised the transactions and 
allowed his account to go into unarranged overdraft but the payments that were made were 
guaranteed payments which couldnt be returned as unpaid. And Im sure Mr U appreciates 
holding a bank account comes with responsibilities  one of which is ensuring the account 
holds sufficient funds for items that the account holder wishes to pay for from the account 
I havent considered whether the amount HSBC charged was fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately, how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various charging structures per se, 
it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr U if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Us account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr U was experiencing financial difficulty. 
From what Ive seen about the way Mr U was managing his account I cant see anything to 
suggest that HSBC ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty before Mr U stopped using his account and it was passed to collections. And I can 
see that HSBC had already refunded over £200 worth of charges. 
 
So I dont think HSBC treated Mr U unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman