DRN-3302819
The complaint
Mr J complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trusttwo) did not correctly apply a
lump sum repayment to his loan account.
What happened
Mr J took out a guarantor loan with Trusttwo on 16 April 2019. He borrowed £6,700 and was
due to repay £227.46 monthly for 60 months.
Mr J says that he made a payment of £5,000 towards the loan with the intention of repaying
it earlier. He says Trusttwo did not treat the payment as a partial settlement and continued to
charge the same interest. Mr J adds that he was advised to ask for the £5,000 to be
refunded but that Trusttwo refused.
Trusttwo explained that Mr J requested a settlement figure on 3 August 2019, which was
emailed to him on 6 August 2019. It says Mr J paid £5,000 of this settlement figure on 7
August 2019 and confirmed that he planned to pay the remainder of the settlement before its
expiration on 3 September 2019. Trusttwo says Mr J then advised on 21 August 2019 that
he was unable to pay the remaining balance and, it says, it could not then accept the £5,000
as a partial settlement. It says it was unable to refund the £5,000 but offered Mr J £100 for
any misunderstanding. The £5,000 remained as a credit on Mr Js account, but Trusttwo said
if Mr J made a small partial settlement of £50, it could also apply the £5,000 to the account.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found Trusttwo
made Mr J aware of his options regarding the credit on his account and that Mr J said he
intended to repay the remaining balance. He was satisfied that Trusttwo acted in accordance
with the loan agreement and that there was no scope for it to refund the £5,000. Our
investigator said Trusttwo should pay Mr J the £100 compensation it had already offered.
Mr J responded to say, in summary, that he was never under the impression he wouldnt
have to make payments and that hed received an email in September 2020 querying what
he wanted to do in terms of the remaining balance. He says he then sought financial advice,
but that the loan agreement states Trusttwo would calculate a rebate and this wasnt done. 
Mr J adds that hed made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to Trusttwo.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr J and to Trusttwo on 25 January 2022. Ive summarised 
my findings:
Mr J paid £5,000 on 7 August 2019 as part of a settlement figure of £6,914.68 but 
advised he couldnt pay the remainder before the figure expired on 3 September 
2019;
Even though Mr J was asked how he wanted the payment to affect his account, I was 
satisfied the £5,000 wasnt used to reduce his interest liability and instead was used 
as a credit on the account from which subsequent monthly payments were taken;
The loan agreement said:
oany early repayment you make will be applied to reduce the duration of the 
agreement but your Monthly Payment will remain the same and
oWhen we have received your partial early repayment we will calculate any 
statutory rebate to which you may be entitled in respect of that repayment. 
The balance that you owe will be reduced by the amount of your partial early 
repayment and any statutory rebate;
My provisional decision was that I upheld the complaint and considered that a fair resolution 
to the complaint was for Trusttwo to apply the £5,000 to Mr Js account with effect from 7 
August 2019 and to agree a mutually acceptable repayment plan for the balance. I added 
that Trusttwo should also pay the £100 compensation to which it had already agreed.
Trusttwo responded to accept the provisional decision and I note it also forwarded an 
income and expenditure form to Mr J to begin the process of repaying the balance.
Mr J responded to say, in summary, that he was satisfied with the outcome. However, he 
added that Trusttwo continues to pursue a default notice, has not called him back as 
requested, and he has still not received the £100 compensation. Mr J adds that he now feels 
he deserves higher compensation as, if the money had been correctly applied, he would 
have repaid the loan two years ago, and he now has other commitments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Trusttwo has agreed to the provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr Js concerns about the 
default notice and compensation will be addressed. I acknowledge that Mr J believes the 
compensation should be higher as he has other financial commitments now and will struggle 
to repay the balance. However, Trusttwo has agreed to set up an affordable repayment plan 
for this balance and has asked Mr J to let it know what other commitments he has by way of 
the income and expenditure form. If Mr J subsequently feels the proposed repayment plan is 
unaffordable or unfair, he is entitled to complain again.
For the above reasons, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
Trusttwo) should:Rework Mr Js loan account with the £5,000 being applied as a partial settlement 
on 7 August 2019;
Agree a mutually acceptable repayment plan for the remaining balance;
Pay Mr J £100 compensation as already agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman