DRN-4307523
The complaint
Miss M complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined to include damage to her stairs, in a 
claim she made following an escape of water, under her home buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
In December 2022 a pipe burst in Miss Ms loft space. The resulting escape of water caused 
extensive damage to her home. QIC assessed the damage and arranged for the property to 
be dried. It produced a schedule of works and offered to arrange the repairs or provide a 
settlement payment. 
Mrs H informed QIC that three of her stairway treads had cracked during the drying process. 
It sent an assessor to inspect the damage but didnt think this was caused by the escape of 
water. The assessor thought the cracks looked too old and had flecks of paint in them - 
indicating the damage was present before the pipe had burst. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She says water poured down the stairs as a result of the burst pipe. The 
leak caused a painted plasterboard ceiling to collapse. She says this is the more likely 
reason for the paint flecks, than the reason QIC had given. Mrs H thought the damaged 
stairs should be included in the scope of works. QIC didnt. So, she referred the matter to our 
service. 
Our investigator upheld her complaint. He says there was no reference to the cracked stairs 
in QICs initial assessment of the damage. In addition, its assessor didnt inspect the stair 
tread damage until three months after the escape of water  and two months after the drying 
process was complete. Our investigator didnt think QIC had definitively shown the stair 
damage wasnt caused by a combination of the escape of water and drying process. 
In light of this our investigator says QIC should include the damaged stair treads in its scope 
of works. He says a new scope of works should be provided along with an updated 
settlement offer. In addition, he says QIC should pay Miss M £400 compensation for the 
distress it caused her due to her home remaining in its damaged state for around seven 
months.  
QIC didnt agree. It says its assessor is a qualified expert damp specialist. It maintains that 
the cracks in the stairs are historic and arent covered under Mrs Ms policy. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
Theres no dispute that an escape of water is an insured event covered under Miss Ms 
policy. QIC must therefore cover the cost of repairing the damage, in line with its policy 
terms and conditions. This is unless it can reasonably rely on a policy exclusion not to. In 
Miss Ms claim QIC says the damage to the stairs was pre-existing  this isnt something 
covered under her policy. So, although it has produced a scope of works to cover most of 
the repairs, it declined to include the stair tread damage.  
My focus here is to consider whether QIC has reasonably shown that the damage to the 
stairs occurred prior to the escape of water. I dont think it has, and Ill explain why. 
The loss occurred on 17 December 2022. A survey of the damage took place at the end of 
that month. This didnt include reference to any damage that was observed, or repairs that 
were required, to the stair treads. I note Miss M says she contacted QIC after the property 
had dried out to report this damage. She says cracking had occurred as a result of the drying 
process. From the records, the drying work commenced shortly after the claim was made  I 
understand the property was certified dry on 26 January 2023.
Ive read the report provided by QICs surveyor in December 2022 and looked at the photos 
that were taken. Ive also looked at the later photos that were taken showing the cracked 
stair treads. In addition, QIC sent photos taken by its regional surveyor, who visited Miss Ms 
property on 21 March 2023 to inspect the damaged stairs. Ive examined these photos as 
well.   
In a message to Miss M, QICs surveyor says, As I advised at the time of my inspection [21 
March 2023], the damage to the stair treads was not deemed to be as a result of the peril. 
The cracks do not show fresh clean timber which would indicate they are recent and there is 
clear evidence of paint flecks inside and on the edge of the cracks. This would indicate they 
are historical and were present when the staircase was last decoratedBased on the above 
I am not looking to include the repair / replacement of the stair treads as part of the claim.
The photos show the cracking in the stair treads is very narrow. I think it would be difficult to 
see whether fresh clean timber had been exposed. The surveyor also refers to paint flecks 
inside and on the edge of the cracks. Although I note the surveyors comments, I dont think 
this provides definitive proof that the cracking is historic. Miss Ms points out that a painted 
plaster board ceiling had collapsed above this area. This meant the stairs were exposed to 
the debris from the collapsed ceiling. When cleaning the area, Miss M says she swept the 
stairs and that some of this material couldve got into the cracks, which she thinks is what 
the surveyor saw. 
In her complaint correspondence Miss M says there was a delay in QIC inspecting the 
damaged stairs. This is why fresh clean timber wasnt visible in the cracks. I think Miss M 
makes a fair point here. The inspection was two months after the drying work had completed 
and three months after the escape of water. I think its reasonable that this couldve 
impacted on the appearance of the cracks in the timber.       
I acknowledge QICs comments that the surveyor who inspected the damage is a damp 
specialist and a qualified expert. I dont dispute this. But I dont think QIC has, in all 
reasonableness, shown that the stair damage was already present prior to the escape of 
water based on paint flecks and the appearance of the timber. 
I must also consider that there was no reference to any damage in this area when the first 
inspection took place in December 2022. If this damage was historic, as QIC says it is, Id 
expect this to be noted in its inspection report. The cracking is clearly observable in the later 
photos. But it wasnt observed during the inspection in December. This casts further doubt 
on QICs view that the damage is historic and should be excluded from Miss Ms claim.  
In these circumstances I think its fair that QIC should include the damaged stairs in Miss Ms claim. Given the time elapsed from the original scope of works, its reasonable that QIC 
should reassess this, and its settlement offer, to ensure this is reflective of what it would cost 
it to carry out the repairs.
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Miss M. Part of her claim was unfairly 
declined, which has caused her significant inconvenience over a period of many months. 
She still has no floor coverings because of this ongoing issue, which has added to the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced. In these circumstances QIC should 
compensate Miss M for this. I agree with our investigators assessment that £400 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should:
provide a revised scope of works to include the stair damage, including a revised 
settlement offer to reflect the current cost of repairs; and
pay Miss M £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman