DRN-4253947
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr M bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in January 2018. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, Mr M alleges that the supplier misled Mr M into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr M signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr M says he was led to believe. So, the investigator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr M disagreed but didnt provide any reasons for doing so. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a decision.
Mr M did previously have a representative assisting him with his complaint, but I understand 
he is now dealing with the complaint himself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr M was provided with the sales documents, and it seems likely that he 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
on the same document as the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel 
system. The cost of the system is also recorded in the finance section of the contract, so I 
think Mr M was aware hed be taking out finance. Neither of these figures are hidden away in 
small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And Mr M has signed this document. 
 
 
I think its clear that Mr Ms total year one benefit is £417.89, and the cost of the system is 
£7,950. 
On the same day, Mr M also signed the credit agreement which set out the cash price of 
£7,950, the monthly payment of £87.46, the total amount payable of £10,493.73, as well as 
the term of the loan which was 120-months (i.e. 10years). 
Usually, the sale documentation reflects the nature of the discussions that took place at the 
time of sale. So, I think its likely the supplier discussed the estimated benefit the system 
would likely produce as well as clearly setting out the cost. When Mr M provided additional 
testimony to our investigator, he said he believed he would receive around £400 in Feed in 
Tariff (FIT) payments from the system. The estimated returns set out Mr Ms total benefit 
was around £400 rather than the FIT alone  but Mr Ms testimony does indicate this figure 
of £400 was discussed. I think the document makes it clear that Mr Ms total benefit was 
£417.89 rather than the FIT alone. 
I also think its clear that to repay a loan for £7,950 over 10 years, Mr M would need at least 
£795 to meet the annual repayments of the loan (without even including interest and 
charges), and the total benefit amount falls significantly short of that. I also think its apparent 
that 12 payments of £87.46, amounts to more than £400. 
Overall, I think its more likely that it would have been clear to him that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding in the way he says he was told they would be. 
If Mr M had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Ms 
understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ms testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Mr M has recently said that he is also concerned the system isnt generating as much power 
as it should do  and that he was told that it would generate around 2.5MW per day but it is 
actually only producing 1.5kWh. Mr M didnt raise any concerns with power generation in his 
original complaint and we cant investigate any new complaint points now. His complaint was 
that the system was sold as self-funding, and Ikanos response was that it didnt agree the 
system was sold as self-funding. This is the complaint that was referred to this service. 
But it might be helpful to clarify that Mr Ms MCS certificate shows his system is expected to 
produce 2607.89 kWh per year and his meter reading from January 2022, shows the system 
was producing on average 3041 kWh annually. This is slightly more than was estimated at 
the point of sale, so it looks like the system was performing as it was designed to, and it 
wasnt faulty. But if Mr M thinks the system is generating less than it should do now, he 
would need to raise that with Ikano and give it a chance to investigate it and put matters right 
in the first instance. If Mr M isnt happy with Ikanos response, then it can refer this matter to 
this service after the correct complaints process has been followed. 
Mr M has made some additional points regarding whether Ikano carried out appropriate 
credit checks and whether it ensured pressure wasnt applied. But as explained by our 
investigator, Mr M was provided with a cooling off period which I would have expected him to 
utilise if he didnt want the system but had been pressured into signing the agreement on the 
day. Pressure can also be subjective, and Mr M hasnt provided any detail as to why he feels 
he was subjected to undue pressure. Additionally, Ikano and our investigator set out in detail 
the credit checks Ikano carried out, and I havent seen anything that suggests the loan was 
unaffordable. So, these points dont change my view of the complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr M to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint. So, I dont think Ikano acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman