DRN-3368959
The complaint
In summary, Mrs K has complained about the advice she received from Chantler Kent 
Investments (CKI) in 2012, when it advised her to transfer her pension into a self- 
invested personal pension (SIPP). Mrs K thinks that as a result of poor initial advice and 
not having received ongoing investment reviews and advice, she has suffered significant 
investment losses due to the proceeds of transfer remaining in cash.
What happened
In 2012 Mrs K and her husband received pension and investment advice from CKI. The 
discussions were conducted through Mr K. And he dealt with matters on her behalf. She 
is represented by Mr K in bringing the complaint.
CKIs recommendation report said that the proceeds from Mrs Ks pension would be held 
on deposit until an investment strategy had been agreed. It also recorded that she would 
receive one face to face review a year, and that her portfolio would be rebalanced as 
required.
After the SIPP was set up, there were several communications between Mr K and CKI over 
a number of years, about investing the proceeds of the transfer. And in October 2012, CKI 
provided Mr K with details of investment recommendations, which were described as the 
K. portfolio. 
At the beginning of January 2020, Mr K wrote to CKI. He explained his requests for 
meetings and information hadnt been replied to over an extended period. He felt he had 
no choice but to terminate his client relationship with CKI. He asked for a return of the fees 
he and Mrs K had paid as he didnt think the funds had been suitably managed. 
In February 2020 CKI wrote to Mr K. It said it couldnt justify the fees it received and offered 
a full refund of the fees. Mr K wasnt satisfied with the response provided by CKI. So, he 
referred the complaint on behalf of Mrs K to our service to look into.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks concerns. He explained why he couldnt look 
into the initial advice. And he also explained why he didnt think he could say CKI had done 
anything wrong in not investing the cash held in Mrs Ks SIPP. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view of the complaint. In summary he explained how 
he thought CKI had failed in its legal obligations to them both. And he didnt think their losses 
should be limited from January 2014. He also said the complaints were broader than the 
SIPP, as Mrs K received no advice in respect of her ISAs. And he said fees should be 
refunded in respect of their ISAs as they had been left in cash. 
The case was passed to me to review. I wrote to Mrs K and CKI in September 2021. 
I explained why I thought we couldnt consider Mrs Ks concerns about the initial advice 
provided to her, and why I thought the complaint Mr K had made to CKI and this service on 
her behalf, was only in respect of the SIPP, not the ISAs. But I also explained why I thought 
we could consider her concerns regarding the annual reviews.
In response Mr K said on behalf of Mrs K, that they accepted what I had said with regard to 
only considering the concerns from January 2014. But they didnt accept that the High 
Court would be subject to similar limitations. And they reserved their rights in that regard. 
He thought I should consider documents from 2012 and that any award should cover all 
fees including the ISAs, as no advice was received in respect of them. Mr K also made 
submissions in relation to the merits of the complaint. CKI said it had no further points that 
it wanted to add. 
As Mr K and Mrs K accepted my findings in relation to jurisdiction and CKI had no further 
submissions to make, I issued a final jurisdiction decision. I decided that Mr Ks concerns 
about the suitability of advice provided, and the lack of investment reviews before January 
2014, couldnt be looked at as they had been made too late. But I said I could consider Mrs 
Ks concerns from January 2014. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in relation to the merits Mrs Ks complaint. I 
explained why I intended to uphold her complaint in part. 
In response, Mr K said he was authorised by Mrs K to respond on her behalf.  In summary, 
in relation to Mrs K:
He was disappointed that I was only minded to uphold the complaint in part.
He wanted definitive calculations of what the compensation would be and 14 days to 
comment on the figures.
He didnt agree with the inconvenience payment I had suggested and thought a sum 
of £2,000 was more appropriate.
He asked that the compensation include a payment for interest. 
Mrs Ks tax rate should be adjusted for the nil rate band
He asked that the losses in respect of the lack of investment of the cash in her ISAs 
be included in the calculation of compensation.
In response, CKI said in summary:
It described a relevant event which it said confirmed Mr Ks intention not to further 
invest into the portfolio recommended after the 21/06/2013. It submitted this was Mr 
Ks recorded decision to hold cash to buy a commercial property. It said this 
suggested Mr K was directing the investment.
It referred to new evidence from its file in relation to the original transfer and advice 
on shares. It said showed Mr K was active in deciding what shares to cash or 
transfer, which indicated a self-select client behaviour.
It also referred to Mr and Mrs K declining to accept its offer of settlement following 
their complaint in January 2020. It said this showed their intention to direct the 
investments which would negatively impact the current value of their pension. 
It also queried the impact of Mr Ks own investments on the redress methodology I 
had proposed, and that step 4 involved looking at the current value.
I wrote to Mr K on 4 March 2022 in reply to what he had said in response to my provisional 
decision. In relation to the relevant points in respect of Mrs K, in summary:
I explained why any compensation would be limited to £160,000. 
I explained why I wouldnt be able to provide the detailed calculations he had asked 
for.
I also explained why I didnt think it was appropriate to make any award in relation to legal costs.
I also said I would address any lost investment growth resulting from a deduction of 
fees within the redress methodology and that interest would be appropriate if any 
compensation wasnt paid within 28 days of the decision being accepted. 
I also said that in relation to the ISAs, I hadnt seen anything which led me to change 
what I had said in my jurisdiction decision. 
I also explained why I thought the distress and inconvenience award I had proposed, 
remained an appropriate figure. 
Mr K wrote to me again replying to the points I had made in my e-mail of 4 March 2022. In 
summary:
He thanked me for the diligence with which I had considered his complaint.
He provided details of how he and Mrs K would achieve their income in retirement. 
And he explained drawing on capital in retirement would be more tax efficient rather 
than drawing on his SIPP to a level that incurred 40% tax. 
He said that at retirement he wouldnt have any mortgages, so wouldnt be drawing 
income to pay mortgage interest or repayments. 
His and Mrs Ks income over the next 10 years would cover their expenditure so they 
would approach age 65 with significant cash or liquid funds. 
Irrespective of the fact that they would have sufficient funds from elsewhere to avoid 
using the SIPP, they would not need to spend £2,000 a week with no mortgage 
outgoings. 
As they got older, they would use capital to supplement their income. It made no 
sense to draw a SIPP that could pass to their children free of IHT. 
Office for National Statistics (ONS) life expectancy data was provided in support of 
his arguments.
He wasnt confident that CKI would provide accurate or transparent calculations.
He felt he was forced to take legal advice as a result of what he believed was an 
inconsistent conclusion by the investigator. 
He asked if he could make a complaint to CKI or the ombudsman regarding the ISAs. 
I considered what Mr K had said. Our investigator wrote to Mr K on my behalf. In summary:
I had reviewed the information provided regarding his assets and income. In light of 
the further detail provided, I was now persuaded that a 20% tax deduction would be 
more appropriate in respect of any compensation paid to Mr and Mrs K. 
I had also considered Mr Ks request for lost investment growth to be taken into 
account in relation to the fees that were deducted by CKI, from the monies invested 
in the SIPPs. 
Having reflected on what Mr K had said, I didnt now think it was appropriate for a 
refund of fees to be paid. This was because I didnt think it fair or reasonable for him 
and Mrs K to have the benefit of redress which compensated them both on the basis 
of what should have happened if they had received the advice they ought to have 
been given. And to also compensate them for the cost of that advice.
Regarding the costs in respect of the legal advice he obtained, the investigator said 
my opinion on this hadnt changed, for the reasons I had already given.  
Mr K provided further submissions in response to the investigators e-mail. In summary in 
respect of Mrs K:He was grateful that I had reconsidered the tax rate applied to his SIPP. He said he 
would definitely take the 25% tax free lump sum (TFLS). And he asked that I 
reinstate the tax deduction I had set out in my methodology to reflect the benefit of 
the TFLS. He said he would take this before age 75. 
In relation to the refund of CKIs fees, he accepted and understood the rationale for 
the three-year period in which compensation for losses was being suggested. But he 
argued that the funds would have received earned dividends which would have 
covered part of the fees. And he asked for a refund of an appropriate proportion of 
fees for the periods outside of the three years. 
He asked that I clarify the calculation dates within my decision to take into account if 
any fell on a weekend.
I considered what Mr K had said. An investigator and wrote again to CKI on my behalf and 
attached a copy of Mr Ks e-mail to me. 
In summary he explained that having considered what Mr K had said, I was satisfied 
that Mr K had the means to draw income and assets in an inheritance tax (IHT) 
efficient way. And I went on to explain why I now thought a notional deduction of 15% 
should be made from any compensation payment made directly to Mr and Mrs K.
I also said If the calculation dates, I set out in this redress methodology fell on a 
weekend or on a bank holiday, the calculation should use any unit values/prices on 
the following business day.
No response was received from CKI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has confirmed he has authority from Mrs K to make representations on her behalf in 
respect of this complaint. He and CKI have made a number of arguments in relation to this 
complaint  and in response to my provisional decision. In reaching my decision, I havent 
commented on every point of concern Mr K and CKI have raised. I dont intend to offend 
them by doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. Instead Ive focussed on 
the key issues I think I need to consider in deciding whether or not CKI has done anything 
wrong regarding the concerns Mr K has raised on behalf of Mrs K  and what and how, CKI 
needs to do to put things right. 
Although I cant consider Mrs Ks concerns about the suitability of the initial advice and the 
impact of a lack of any reviews prior to January 2014, I can consider her concerns about the 
lack of reviews after that date. And Ill also consider the lack of ongoing investment advice. 
Its clear to me from the documentation Ive seen that Mr K took responsibility for both his 
and Mrs Ks investments with CKI. So, she wouldnt have received the correspondence 
between Mr K and CKI. But given that Mr K was dealing with the pension investments on 
behalf of them both, I think its highly improbable that he didnt discuss with Mrs K what was 
going on with their investments. And if in the unlikely event that he didnt, then if Mrs K had 
questioned Mr K as someone in her position ought reasonably to have done, then Im 
satisfied that she would have known what was happening. But even if she didnt, I think she 
would have had constructive knowledge of what was going in relation to the SIPP, as a 
result of the information Mr K had.In the first instance Ive thought about what the agreement was to provide reviews between 
Mrs K and CKI. When Mrs Ks pension was transferred in 2012, the suitability letter set out 
the basis for recommending the transfer of Mrs Ks existing pension into a SIPP. As Ive 
explained above, I wont be looking at the suitability of that advice. But the suitability letter 
records she had a paid-up group personal pension plan from a previous employment. She 
wasnt currently working. The pension had a value of just under £23,000.
In relation to ongoing charges, the letter explained that the ongoing fee would be 0.5% per 
annum of the portfolio value. The suitability letter also addressed Mrs Ks risk profile. And in 
respect of this it recorded:
We have discussed the concept of risk and the relationship between volatility of capital and 
income and the potential for investment returns over the long term.  We have discussed your 
attitude to risk, which we agreed can generally be described as adventurous. 
The detailed recommendation section also recorded that Mrs K wanted to have the 
opportunity to invest in a wide range of assets and make her own investment decisions. 
The letter also set out the services CKI would provide on an ongoing basis. It said in 
relation to the services that would be provided:
Chantler Kent Services
As part of our ongoing service to you we undertake to provide you with the following;
One face to face review per year
Rebalancing of your portfolio as required
Communication by e-mail to ensure you are kept fully informed of the proposed 
changes to your portfolio.
To allow you the facility to view your Wrap account online.
To receive ongoing investment advice utilising sophisticated IT technology.
So, Im satisfied the agreement Mrs K had with CKI included the provision of annual 
reviews and ongoing investment advice. Im also satisfied from the correspondence Ive 
seen from CKI, that it now accepts that its contact with Mr and Mrs K was sporadic. 
I need to decide in light of the lack of ongoing reviews, what steps (if any) Mr K would have 
taken in respect of Mrs Ks pension after January 2014, if CKI had provided the face to face 
reviews it accepts that it should have. In assessing this, I think its important that I consider 
what happened before that point. I say this because I think what happened prior to 2014 is 
indicative of what Mr K might have done on behalf of Mrs K after 2014, if reviews had taken 
place.
Prior to January 2014, I can see from the information Ive been provided with by CKI and 
Mr K, that there were several e-mail exchanges between the parties about when the funds 
should be invested. The suitability letter explained that the funds would remain in cash until 
an investment strategy had been agreed. In October 2012 CKI provided Mr K with 
investment recommendations, which were described as the K. portfolio. 
In June 2013 there was an exchange of e-mails between CKI and Mr K regarding the 
investment of the cash held in the SIPPs. CKIs e-mail to Mr K of 20 June 2013 says;
..I think it would be worthwhile to now begin the strategy of drip feeding monies into the 
market. And it went on to say: The way ahead is unclear. However, I do feel that with recent setbacks, now is an 
appropriate time to begin. 
Mr K in response saidI have been watching the markets keenly as you might have 
guessed and agree its probably time to commit!
CKI then suggested Mr K commit (invest) 25 / 30% of the cash held within the SIPP, with a 
view to reviewing this in 4/5 weeks time. Mr K agreed in principle to that suggestion and 
CKI replied that it would proceed on that basis. And on 22 June 2013, £84,000 was 
invested in 7 different funds. And the funds were similar to those set out in the K. 
portfolio of the previous October.
There are four significant points that stand out to me from the above. Firstly, that CKI was 
providing Mr K with investment advice in relation to the cash held in his SIPP. Secondly 
when Mr K was provided with a specific recommendation to invest, he accepted that 
recommendation and acted on it. 
And thirdly, the investments made, appear to have been in line with the adventurous 
attitude to risk Mr and Mrs K had been assessed as having by CKI. I say this because the 
investments were made into equity funds with a geographical spread ranging from the Far 
East to Europe and the UK. They also encompassed specialist funds. And I think at that 
time these funds could have been considered to be potentially more volatile than other 
types of equity-based investments.  
Finally, the correspondence suggests that the investments would be reviewed within a 
short period of time. This would seem logical because after having made that initial 
investment of £84,000 into Mr Ks SIPP, there remained over £225,000 remaining in Mr Ks 
SIPP to be invested. 
In its communications with Mr K, CKI has argued he was what it described as a 
self-select client, who wanted to make his own investment decisions. Ill address this as it 
is potentially relevant to any investment decisions, he may have made on behalf of Mrs K.
In respect of Mr K being a self-select client, Im not persuaded the evidence supports that. I 
say this because if that was the case, I would have expected CKIs own analysis of Mr Ks 
circumstances and objectives to have identified that. I accept the suitability report records 
that Mr K wanted the opportunity to invest in a wide range of assets and to make his own 
investment decisions. But it also indicates he was expecting CKI to advise him about the 
investment of his and Mrs Ks pension monies. For example, CKIs e-mail to Mr K of 18 July 
2012 summarises various action points following a meeting. It concludes by saying:
I will now proceed to prepare my full report for the protection plans. I will also put forward 
an investment strategy for the incoming pension monies.
And the recommendation report it prepared in 2012 indicates Mr K was looking to produce 
a balanced investment portfolio. As Ive already summarised above, the suitability letter 
explicitly says that Mr K would receive ongoing investment advice. And it also said that his 
pension funds would be held on deposit within the SIPP, until Mr K and CKI had agreed an 
investment strategy. 
Although the proceeds of transfer were held in cash, the letter concluded that a meeting 
would be arranged in the November to review Mr Ks portfolio and arrange pension and ISA 
contributions.  And the fact that a portfolio of suggested funds to invest in was sent to Mr K 
in October 2012, also persuades me that CKI accepted it was providing Mr K with 
investment advice. In addition, the key facts document provided by CKI, doesnt support its argument that Mr K 
was a self-select client. I say this because in relation to investment business the document 
sets out a number of different options regarding the services it provided. The first which is 
ticked says:
We will advise and make recommendations for you after we have assessed your needs.
The second option sets out that no advice or recommendation would be received. The third 
offers basic advice in relation to a limited range of stakeholder products. So, Im persuaded 
that CKIs own key facts document records that it intended to advise and make 
recommendations to Mr and Mrs K. And if the advice was to have been limited in any way, I 
would have expected that to have been recorded by CKI. 
In addition, the investment by CKI of £84,000 in funds it selected in June 2013, isnt 
suggestive to me of Mr K being an individual who wanted to exclusively make his own 
investment decisions. And I believe the correspondence that Ive summarised above 
supports that. 
In the years following the setting up of the SIPP, Mr K did make some investments of his 
own choice. But I dont agree the available evidence when looked at holistically, supports 
CKIs contention that Mr K was a self-select client. I think the evidence indicates he was 
looking for investment advice from CKI but was also prepared to consider other 
investments that he felt were appropriate for him. 
In relation to Mr Ks concerns about equity markets and his desire to invest in commercial 
property, I dont think the situation is as straightforward as CKI has suggested. The e-mail 
exchanges between Mr K and CKI do indicate discussions took place about the timing of 
the reinvestment of the proceeds of transfer. 
For example, in August 2012 there was a discussion about the timing of any reinvestment. 
Mr K in his e-mail of 2 August 2012 Mr K does make a suggestion as to the timing of any 
reinvestment and asks for CKIs views on his proposal.  And in its e-mail response the 
same day, CKI expresses the view that: 
the markets have ticked up recently, in a period of low volume trading. I am of the view 
that there is more downside risk. I do not see that being out of the market, in the short term 
will be harmful.
In September 2012 Mr K asks for a call to catch up where they were and to discuss what to 
do regarding the investments. CKI said in response that it would contact Mr K to discuss 
investment options. And on 13 December 2012, CKI expresses surprise that markets have 
ticked up the way they have.  And it went on to say:
On the question of timing, it may be an idea to drip some into the market. I was thinking of 
no more than 25%, at this time. We can watch how the market looks in January and make 
a further decision at that time.
I think this correspondence paints a picture where Mr K is questioning when the investments 
should be made. But I also think the correspondence indicates that CKI had concerns about 
market timing. And its advice appears to have been a combination of wait and see how 
markets would perform, and to make investments over a period of time.  And in June 2013 
that strategy began to be implemented. And I think from the evidence Ive seen; the timing of 
any investments was more of an issue for CKI than Mr K.Mr K appears to have had considerable experience of investing in property through his 
profession. And its not surprising therefore that he also considered property investments 
with which he was familiar for his SIPP, particularly given that the majority of his pension 
money hadnt been invested. 
CKI has argued the evidence suggests Mr K wanted to invest in commercial property in his 
SIPP. I agree that a SIPP is potentially an appropriate vehicle for investors who want to 
invest in commercial property within their pensions. But in relation to Mrs K, Ive not seen 
any evidence that investing in commercial property was ever a consideration for her. Her 
circumstances and the size of her pension fund, all indicate to me that investment in 
commercial property wasnt a relevant consideration in respect of her pension. 
The next correspondence on this issue is an e-mail from Mr K dated 6 May 2014. He asks 
for an update about the transfer of the property originally discussed in November 2013, into 
his SIPP. There was a further chaser on 22 May 2014 and another one in June 2014. In 
September 2014 information about investing in commercial property via another SIPP 
provider was sent to Mr K by CKI. 
I think this correspondence from Mr K should have been responded to by CKI. Ive not seen 
any evidence that indicates that it was. The lack of any response to Mr K is at a minimum 
indicative of poor customer service towards him and Mrs K. And I also think the contact 
from Mr K should have acted as a trigger for CKI to have organised a review meeting with 
Mr K to discuss his and Mrs Ks pensions. 
For the reasons Ive set out in my decision in relation to Mr Ks complaint, I dont think he 
would have invested the cash in his SIPP after any such review meeting, due to his interest 
in commercial property at that point. But as Ive already explained, that wasnt a relevant 
consideration in relation to Mrs Ks pension. So, taking into account her funds had 
remained in cash for approximately two years, I think the investment of the cash in her 
SIPP would have been a priority topic for discussion at the review meeting. And I think that 
is supported by Mr Ks e-mail to CKI of 16 June 2014, when he said:
Please can I ask you to come back on this. As the equity markets continue to march on, it 
is increasingly important that I sort out this transaction to try and recover what has been a 
disappointing 2 years to say the least.
Although this statement was in respect of Mr Ks concerns about the lack of investment of 
the cash in his SIPP, I think that as he was taking responsibility for Mrs Ks investments as 
well; I think its likely he would also have had similar concerns regarding the investment of 
her pension cash at this time. 
And in the context of any discussion about where the cash in Mrs Ks SIPP should be 
invested, I think a relevant consideration would be what had been agreed and decided in 
June 2013, in respect of the partial investment of some of Mr Ks pension cash. In the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not that Mr K would 
have been guided by the recommendation made to him at that time.
In respect of when that meeting would have taken place, I think CKI should have 
responded to Mr K after his first e-mail on 6 May 2014. And I see no reason why after 
allowing for coordinating diaries, a meeting couldnt have taken place between Mr K and 
CKI by the end of May 2014 at the latest.
Mrs Ks SIPP was a long-term investment. In May 2014 she was 37 years of age. The 
proceeds of the transfer from her old pension had been held in cash in the SIPP since its 
inception in 2012. Given this and the adventurous risk rating CKI appears to have assessed Mrs K as having (which Mr and Mrs K and CKI dont appear to dispute), there doesnt seem 
to have been any logic to me, in holding off any longer in investing the pension monies held 
in cash within the SIPP. 
Mrs K had 25 + years to state retirement age, and over 18 years until she could access her 
pension. And as concerned as CKI may have been back in 2012 with market timing, given 
the context Ive summarised above, I also think there was also a risk of not investing monies 
which were intended to be a long-term investment. The consequences of not investing could 
have led to the pension money not benefitting from investment growth, which would reduce 
the amount of capital available to generate income at the point of retirement. And by 
remaining in cash without the potential to benefit from investment growth, the pension also 
ran the risk of losing value in real terms through the effects of inflation.
Ive thought very carefully about what appropriate advice should have been given at the 
review meeting. I do think that by the time the review meeting would have taken place, the 
e-mail exchanges Ive set out above, demonstrate that Mr K wanted to discuss investing 
the pension monies. And I think the discussion would and should have also addressed Mrs 
Ks pension. It seems logical to me that an appropriate investment strategy for Mrs Ks 
pension should have been discussed and recommended at that meeting. Ive also thought 
about what CKI told Mr K in 2012, when it said; 
I do not see that being out of the market, in the short term will be harmful. 
I think taking into account this statement by CKI in 2012, serious consideration should have 
been given by it as to whether the monies held in the SIPP in cash, not having been invested 
for approximately two years, was detrimental to Mrs K. This should in my opinion have been 
of particular concern given the context Ive set out above. And as Ive said, I think the 
evidence suggests it was CKI that was more concerned about investment timing than Mr or 
Mrs K.
I also think its significant that when an investment recommendation was made to Mr K in 
2013, he accepted it. And I think his agreement to invest in 2013, strongly suggests to me 
that that if an investment recommendation had been made to him in respect of Mrs Ks 
pension in May 2014, he and Mrs K would have approved any similar recommendation to 
invest. 
I say this because there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mrs K had an adventurous 
ATR. Mr K hasnt disputed his or Mrs Ks ATR as assessed by CKI. And CKI dont appear to 
disagree with its own categorisation of her ATR. 
There are different approaches I could take to direct how CKI should calculate any 
compensation that might be due to Mrs K. And one of those could involve using an 
investment benchmark as a comparator with the value of her pension. But I dont think that 
would be appropriate in this particular case. This is because as Ive set out above, Mr K had 
made some investments within his SIPP in 2013 as a result of CKIs advice. 
And I dont think its unreasonable for me to conclude based on Mr Ks acceptance of the 
previous investment recommendation in respect of his SIPP, and as he took responsibility 
for his and Mrs Ks investments with CKI; that he would more likely than not have agreed to 
invest the cash in Mrs Ks SIPP, in the same funds as the investment made into his SIPP in 
2013 was made into. 
In coming to this conclusion, Ive also taken into account what Mr K told us about how he 
has calculated his and Mrs Ks investment losses. In the loss analysis hes provided in 
support of their complaints, Mr K has carried out his own calculation based on the funds 
suggested by CKI in the K. portfolio in 2012. As he has used the funds originally recommended in 2012 to calculate his investment losses, I believe this supports my 
conclusion that Mr K would have accepted a similar recommendation if one had been made 
to him in respect of Mrs Ks SIPP in May 2014. And as Ive set out above, the investment 
made in 2013 used a portfolio of funds which were very similar to the funds set out in the 
K. portfolio. It also provided a broad range of funds in line with the adventurous ATR 
that Mr K accepts Mrs K had.
Ive noted that in June 2013, the agreed percentage of funds in respect of Mr Ks SIPP were 
invested within a couple of days of Mr K confirming his agreement to invest. And based on 
what happened then, I see no reason why the cash in Mrs Ks SIPP wouldnt have been 
invested in a similar time frame. So, even if the review meeting hadnt taken place until the 
end of May 2014, I think its not unreasonable to assume that the cash would have been 
invested by 4 June 2014 at the very latest.
CKI in its response to my provisional decision, referred to an external compliance report that 
recorded Mr K was holding cash to in his SIPP to purchase a property. As Ive explained, I 
do think Mr K had an interest in commercial property in 2014. But as Ive also explained, I 
dont think this was a relevant consideration in relation to Mrs Ks SIPP.
Ive also thought about what CKI said in relation to the offer of settlement it made to Mr K. 
Ive explained when and why I think he would have invested the remaining cash in his SIPP 
and into Mrs Ks SIPP. And Mr Ks response to the offer made to settle the complaint was at 
a point much later in time and involving different circumstances. 
So, what Mr K may have said in relation to an offer of settlement in respect of the complaint, 
isnt in my opinion directly relevant to the lack of advice he and Mrs K received from CKI, 
and what they were likely to have done if they had received the advice they had paid for. 
And given their concerns about the service and advice provided by CKI, its not surprising 
they chose to move their investments at that point in time.
In its response to Mr Ks complaint, CKI offered to refund the fees it charged Mr and Mrs K. 
In my provisional decision I said that I thought that was an appropriate offer for it to have 
made. As Ive summarised above, Mr K in response to my provisional decision, asked for 
any investment losses to also be paid in respect of the money deducted from the funds in 
respect of CKIs charges.
Mr Ks arguments have caused me to reflect on the offer made by CKI. It offered to repay the 
fees that had been deducted from the SIPP because no investment advice had been 
provided. And it made no offer or proposal in relation to investment losses. 
My aim is to put Mrs K back in the position she would have been in as far as is practicably 
possible, (within the time period Ive has outlined that losses should be considered for), if the 
advisory function that CKI should had offered Mr K on her behalf, had taken place. 
Having reflected on what Mr K said, I dont now think it is appropriate for a refund of fees to 
be paid. I say this because on reflection, it doesnt seem fair or reasonable to me, for Mrs K 
to have the benefit of redress which compensates her on the basis of what should have 
happened if Mr K had received the advice he ought to have been given on her behalf. And to 
also at the same time, compensate her for the cost of that advice. That would in essence 
provide a double benefit to her. This is because it would put her in a position she would have 
been in if she had received appropriate advice, but also reimburse her for the cost of that 
advice.
Mr K has said in response to this that he understands the rationale for my change of opinion 
in relation to the period for which Ive explained why investment losses should be calculated. But hes argued that earned dividends would have covered part of the fees. And he thinks 
that CKI provided negligent strategic advice outside of the investment period. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks arguments. The agreement Mr K had with CKI allowed it to 
deduct its fees from the monies held in the SIPP. It didnt specify that this should be paid 
from dividend income produced by any investments. I acknowledge what Mr K has said 
about what happened after the SIPP was set up. But Ive already explained in my jurisdiction 
decision, that I cant look at Mr Ks concerns prior to January 2014.
Ive also thought about the actions of Mr K in relation to the reviews and the investment of 
the cash in his SIPP. Although I think for the reasons Ive set out, CKI should have carried 
out regular reviews of Mr Ks pension and invested the money held in his SIPP, I do think Mr 
K also has some responsibility for Mrs Ks funds not being invested. Ill explain why.
In August 2015, CKI contacted Mr K to carry out a review. That took place in September 
2015. The outcome of that review was that there was an agreement to invest the cash held 
in Mr Ks SIPP. In September 2015 Mr K asked if the investment had been made. CKI told 
him that it hadnt. And this seems to be because it had concerns about volatility in equity 
markets at that time. Mr Ks response seems to indicate that he on reflection, he was 
relieved that the investment of the cash held in his SIPP hadnt been made. So, I dont think 
Mr K would have had had any particular concerns about his pension cash not being invested 
at that time.
The next recorded contact between CKI and Mr K was in March 2018. Mr K wrote to CKI and 
said that he was surprised that having made a large pension contribution in April 2016, he 
hadnt any contact in the nearly two years since. He asked if CKI had any thoughts on his 
pension position. In September 2018 Mr K contacts CKI again to say that he had received no 
contact from it. He was told he would be contacted. But he received no further contact from 
CKI until he complained to it in 2020. 
It seems to me that after the meeting in September 2015, there was very little if any contact 
from CKI with Mr K. And promises of contact and reviews werent kept. Against this 
background, its difficult to understand why Mr K didnt take any alternative steps to facilitate 
advice and the investment of his and Mrs Ks pension monies. I understand that Mr and Mrs 
K were paying for reviews and ongoing advice which they not unreasonably expected to 
receive. But I think there had to be a time when they realised, they werent getting the 
service they were paying for, and for them to have considered seeking alternative financial 
advice. 
I think to some extent an explanation has been provided by Mr K. Hes told us in various 
conversations with our investigators that he had: 
buried his head in the sand and didnt want to engage too much. He also said that he had: 
denied it all for years he had found it all too stressful.
And in subsequent conversations with another of our investigators, Mr K explained he had 
found the situation with his pension; very stressful and had genuinely tried to bury it.
He also said that he had; spent 8 years waiting for a stock market crash.
I do understand that Mr K has found the concerns he had about his and Mrs Ks pensions to 
be very stressful and difficult to address. But what he has told our investigators also 
indicates to me that he has recognised that there had been a specific problem with the lack 
of investment of his pension money for several years. And that the lack of investment was as 
a result of CKI not having invested the cash held within his and Mrs Ks SIPPs, as they had 
expected it to do. And notwithstanding what Mr K told our investigators, I still think he would 
have acted on any investment recommendations for the reasons Ive set out above. All of this leads me to conclude that Mr and Mrs K were aware of the lack of service and 
advice from CKI. I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr K on behalf of Mrs K not to have 
taken any steps to have done anything about this in the short to medium term. They both 
had a reasonable expectation that CKI would be in contact and provide them with the 
investment reviews and advice they were expecting. But I think when Mr K didnt receive a 
response to his enquiry to CKI in September 2018, this should have prompted him to seek 
investment advice elsewhere for both himself and Mrs K. 
I say this as I believe it should have been apparent to Mr K at that point, that CKI wasnt 
engaging him with him or providing him with the advice he needed and wanted. But Mr K 
didnt take any reasonable steps to mitigate his or Mrs Ks position resulting from the poor 
service and lack of advice. And for the reasons Ive explained I think he and Mrs K should 
have taken steps to seek advice and mitigate their position by the end of September 2018. 
Mr K has also made a number of submissions regarding the notional reduction I specified 
should be made, if any compensation payment couldnt be paid into the SIPP. 
Ive considered the information provided by Mr K and CKI. CKIs fact find from the time of the 
original advice in 2012, records that Mr and Mrs K had substantial assets outside of their 
pensions. Mr K has now provided further detail about his current assets and income. These 
indicate that their assets and income are similar to those recorded in 2012 by CKI. So, I think 
this is corroborative of what Mr K has told us about his and Mrs Ks finances. 
It seems to me that Mrs K doesnt have much if any earned income. She and Mr K have 
been living off the assets and income that Mr K has provided details of. As they are able to 
live off those resources and have provided details of them, Im now persuaded that Mrs K 
isnt likely to need to draw down on her SIPP in order to generate income.
As a result, Im also persuaded her SIPP would be left to her beneficiaries as part of her 
inheritance tax planning. And it was on this basis that I believed that a deduction of 20% to 
allow for any beneficiaries expected marginal rate of income tax was more appropriate. I 
wrote to CKI and Mr K explaining this.
Mr K in response said he would take the tax-free cash before age 75. Hes not specifically 
referenced Mrs K. But I think its more likely than not, that she will do the same as Mr K.  Ive 
reconsidered the arguments and evidence in relation to this point. I am now persuaded from 
what Mr K has said, that maximising any inheritance tax (IHT) saving is important to him and 
Mrs K. And the assets and income streams he and Mrs K appear to have, does suggest that 
they have the means to draw on income and assets in an IHT efficient way. 
There is a risk that Mr and Mrs K might not live for 7 years after taking any tax-free cash. 
That would mean the tax-free cash could be subject to IHT. But taking into account what Mr 
K has said about the reasoning and timing of taking any tax-free cash, it seems to me that 
its equally possible and plausible, that such an exercise might be successful. And I can see 
the logic in why Mr and Mrs K might want to do take the tax-free cash, to help their children 
at some point in the future when they are older. In my experience that isnt an unusual thing 
for parents who have substantial assets such as Mr and Mrs K have, to do with their tax-free 
cash. 
As Mr K himself acknowledges, the beneficiaries in relation to the SIPPs will have to pay tax 
at their marginal rate of income tax. That cant be known at the moment given. But given that 
the likely beneficiaries will be Mr and Mrs Ks children, I think its appropriate to assume a 
20% tax rate on any income that might be taken from the SIPP, to reflect the beneficiaries 
likely marginal rate of tax. I set out in the redress methodology in my provisional decision, that if any compensation 
payment couldnt be paid into the SIPP, it should be paid directly to Mrs K as a lump sum 
after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid.
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to the likely 
income tax rate on any income drawn. As Ive explained, Im satisfied this would more likely 
than not be drawn down by the beneficiaries of Mrs Ks estate and that this is likely to be at a 
marginal rate of tax of 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this, rather than the 20% I previously indicated. 
Mr K has also argued that he should be entitled to recover legal costs that he has incurred. 
Some of those costs are likely to relate to Mrs Ks position as well. So, for the avoidance of 
any doubt, I will address that issue in relation to Mrs K as well. 
Mr K thinks the answer provided by the investigator left him with no option but to obtain legal 
advice. I can consider making an award in respect of legal costs. But I think the starting point 
is that the ombudsman service is an informal service and free to use for complainants. We 
dont expect complainants to articulate or present their cases in the same way as might be 
directed by court rules. And we will carry out an investigation into a complaint that we 
consider necessary.
Complainants can of course take legal advice if they choose to. But by doing so, that doesnt 
mean that they will automatically be awarded those costs if their complaint is upheld. Taking 
into account the facts and circumstances of Mrs Ks complaint, Im not persuaded that she or 
Mr K needed to take legal advice in order to present their cases to our service. The facts and 
issues in their cases are not complicated in my opinion. 
The financial ombudsman service has a two-stage complaint handling process. The case 
has been reviewed afresh by me and I have considered all of the information and arguments 
made by Mr K and CKI afresh. And I dont think it is appropriate for me to make any award in 
respect of legal costs incurred on behalf of Mr and Mrs K, as Im not persuaded given the 
issues to be decided; that Mrs K needed legal representation to present her complaint to our 
service.
Mr K doesnt agree with the amount of compensation I said should be paid in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience he and Mrs K incurred as a result of CKIs actions. And he 
thought the figure I had indicated should be similar to that put forward by the investigator.
In respect of the award for distress and inconvenience, I am not bound by the findings of our 
investigator. My role is to review the case afresh and reach my own conclusions. And having 
done so I have reached a different conclusion to that of the investigator. 
I upheld the substantive part of Mrs Ks complaint in part when the investigator didnt. And I 
directed that CKI should pay her compensation for any financial losses that might be 
calculated. Ive also explained that I think some of the delays and losses are because of Mr 
K not taking steps to mitigate his or Mrs Ks position. So, based on everything Ive seen, I 
remain satisfied that £500 is an appropriate amount of compensation to reflect the impact of 
the distress and inconvenience Mrs K has incurred. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs K back into the position she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for CKIs error. CKI should calculate any compensation that 
may be due using the methodology Ive set out below. 1) I think the money held in Mrs Ks SIPP, should have been invested in the same funds 
that the initial tranche of money in Mr Ks SIPP was invested in, back in 2013 (the 
2013 portfolio). 
2) Any loss Mrs K has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of 
the SIPP, on the basis that the cash in her SIPP, had been invested in the same 
funds as the 2013 portfolio. For the purposes of calculating the notional value of 
those monies, the investment date should be assumed to be 4 June 2014. The end 
of the investment period should be 30 September 2018.
3) The value of Mrs Ks SIPP as at 30 September 2018 should then be subtracted from 
the notional value calculated in step 2. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and 
no redress is payable.
4) If Mrs K has suffered an investment loss, the compensation amount should if 
possible be paid into Mrs Ks SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
5) If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mrs K as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
6) Mrs K hasnt yet taken any benefits from her plan, and for the reasons explained 
above, it is unlikely that she will need to. If her beneficiaries inherit the SIPP after age 
75, they will need to pay tax on any monies drawn down at their marginal rate of 
income tax  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
7) For the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that the lack of reviews and ongoing 
investment advice has caused Mrs K significant distress and inconvenience. And Im 
satisfied that this has had a considerable impact on her over a number of years. CKI 
should also pay Mrs K £500 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her.
8) If the calculation/investment dates, I have set out in this redress methodology fall on 
a weekend or on a bank holiday, the calculation should use any unit values/prices on 
the following business day.
9) Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from final decision to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of Chantler Kent Investments receiving Mrs Ks acceptance)
10) Provide Mrs K with a detailed breakdown of the calculation it carries out to determine 
whether she has suffered any losses.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that Chantler Kent 
Investments pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Chantler Kent Investments 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount 
as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£160,000, I recommend Chantler Kent Investments pays Mrs K the balance plus any 
interest on the balance as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman