DRN-3491627
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint was made jointly with his wife, but their respective complaints were 
thereafter separated. This decision is only about the issues presented in his case, about his 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and investments. In his August 2020 complaints to 
Define Financial Planning Limited (trading as Define Wealth (DW)) he referred to matters 
concerning his accounts and those belonging to his wife and children. Relevant to the 
complaint about his accounts he mainly said: 
DW caused delays to the transfer of his SIPP and Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
to a new investment platform  delays from June 2019 (when he instructed their 
reviews/transfers) to February 2020 (when the transfer was completed). [issue 1]
DWs charges, for the transfers he instructed for all accounts (including those for his 
wife and children), were misleading. He agreed a £2,500 initial advice fee that he 
understood to be applicable to all accounts but DW subsequently told him the fee did 
not apply to his wifes accounts. [issue 2]
DW mishandled his complaints about the above issues by having the relevant 
adviser conduct the complaint investigation despite his inherent conflict of interests  
leading to a biased and non-independent outcome. [issue 3]
The same complaint issues, for Mr D, were referred to this service in September 2020. In 
March 2021, he added the following allegations to the complaint referral  DWs failure to 
mitigate losses arising from issue 1 [issue 4]; DWs termination of its service without 
requisite notice [issue 5]; DWs obstructive behaviour in relation to the account transfer(s) 
[issue 6]. In the same month, he also provided the following updates:
His identification of further evidence in support of issue 6.
His identification of evidence, for issue 1, that the delays DW caused actually began 
from March (not June) 2019 when it acknowledged awareness of the need to review 
his accounts  and evidence that its delay in conducting the review led directly to the 
delay in the transfers.
A submission related to his wifes case.
DW disputes issues 1, 2 and 3. 
What happened
One of our investigators issued a view on the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He mainly found as follows:
He said issues 5 and 6 were raised after referral of the complaint to this service; they 
were not raised in the original referral; our rules require that, in the first instance, 
these complaint issues must be presented to DW for its response; this has not been 
done so he cannot comment on these issues.
With regards to issue 1, the investigator said the timeline of events shows that DW 
conducted a series of work for and in relation to Mr D and his SIPP up to 13 
November 2019 when he accepted its second recommendation/proposal (issued in 
October)  having rejected the first recommendation/proposal that DW issued in 
September; thereafter, he was sent the relevant forms on 2 December, which he 
completed and returned two days after; DWs suitability report for him was issued on 
6 January 2020 and this was followed on 10 January by the platform application pack 
and regulatory documents; he returned the completed documents on 20 January and 
DW submitted them on the same date; the ISA transfer was completed on 4 February 
and the SIPP transfer was completed on 24 February; overall, it took around eight 
weeks (including the Christmas period) from Mr Ds proposal acceptance to when all 
transfer documentation was ready for his signature and, on balance, this was not 
unreasonable; DW submitted the signed documents on the same date it received 
them; overall, on these facts and considering the inherent eternal factors in the 
transfer process DW did not delay its completion.
With regards to issue 2, he said the client declaration form Mr D signed, on his own, 
on 20 January 2020 expressly stated the £2,500 initial advice fee (in addition to the 
ongoing advice and management percentage-based fees relevant to the transaction). 
There is evidence that this fee did not extend to cover wok for his wifes account(s) 
and that it was a fee that had been discounted for him.
He also noted that Mr Ds account remained invested throughout the process and 
that evidence did not show he had incurred a financial loss.
Mr D disagrees with this outcome and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. His 
response, and submissions to the ombudsman, mainly said:
The investigator was wrong to omit issues 5 and 6 from assessment of the case. This 
is frustrating because DW has declined contact from him [Mr D] so he cannot raise a 
complaint with it about these issues. In addition, the investigator omitted and did not 
determine issue 4.
He has identified at least 10 examples  which he referred to  of the investigator 
displaying bias against him/his case and bias in favour of DW.
There is documentary evidence to support the update he gave us about DWs delay 
beginning from March 2019 when it knew it had the task of reviewing his accounts. 
He had to chase for progress in the review. The work DW performed in January 2020 
should have happened in March 2019 (which is when the relevant documentation 
should have been issued). The investigator refers to external factors in the time taken 
in the transfer process but cites no evidence of any. In addition, there is evidence 
from DWs performance comparison figures (issued on 6 July 2020) that supports his 
claim that there was a loss of around £3,000 for every month that transfer of the 
accounts was delayed (totalling around £30,000 overall).
It must surely be the case that DW was primarily responsible to ensure its charges 
were clear and precise, and the evidence shows that he was led to believe the 
£2,500 fee was for all the accounts (including his wifes). It was reasonable for him to 
believe this given references to this understanding in communications between him 
and DW. He has no recollection of the 20 January 2020 signed declaration. He has 
not seen evidence that he was sent a copy and does not believe he was. 
Furthermore, and importantly, the document does not establish that the agreed fee did not cover his wifes account and neither does a logical analysis of the document 
next to the facts. The document says nothing about the specific work covered by the 
fee, it does not expressly exclude his wifes accounts and, as a matter of fact, despite 
the declaration featuring only him, the work that was actually done by DW under the 
fee related to his accounts and those of his children (who did not sign the 
declaration). As such, the document does not prove that the fee related only to 
him/his accounts and it makes no sense for DW to have charged separately for him 
and his childrens accounts, on the one hand, and for his wifes accounts on the 
other.
Mr D also made other submissions related to his wifes complaint. 
His case was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope
I share the investigators findings on issues 5 and 6. I have not seen evidence that they were 
raised in Mr Ds two complaints in August 2020 to DW, and they were not within the 
complaint issues he initially referred to this service. Whilst his update of March 2020 referred 
to them, I have not seen evidence that they have since or ever been presented to DW for 
treatment. Our jurisdiction rules require that a complaint referred to us must first have been 
made to the relevant firm, with opportunity and time for the firm to address the complaint 
before it is referred to us. 
The complaints in issues 1, 2 and 3 meet the above requirement, they were first presented 
to DW and referred to us thereafter. Issue 4 is essentially a part of (and dependent upon) 
issue 1  in other words, if issue 1 is upheld and if it is found that Mr D incurred a financial 
loss directly as a result of issue 1, then the matter of mitigation of such loss (issue 4) follows 
to be considered. 
Issues 5 and 6 do not meet the jurisdiction requirement because they have not been made 
to DW, in the first instance, prior to referral to us. Furthermore, neither of them is a part of 
issues 1, 2 and 3. Issue 5 relates to the distinct matter of termination of service. As it has 
been presented, issue 6 appears to relate to a distinct allegation about DW intentionally 
misconducting itself in specific/particular aspects of the transfers. Another way to look at 
issue 6 is that it could be a part and/or extension of issue 1 (that is, the allegation about DW 
causing a delay(s) in the transfer), if so it follows that issue 1 already covers that. However, 
on balance, I do not consider that Mr D intended to duplicate issue 1 by updating us with 
issue 6, so I retain the view that it appears to be about the distinct allegation I have 
mentioned above  which is beyond our jurisdiction (for the reasons given above).
Issue 3 is about DWs complaint handling. The regulators dispute resolution rules for this 
service (at DISP 2.3.1 R) says our jurisdiction covers only complaints about firms carrying 
out regulated activities (or ancillary activities connected to regulated activities). The rules 
also say a complaint is any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or 
not, from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
service, claims management service or a redress determination, which alleges that the 
complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience. The matter of complaint handling, in isolation, is not a regulated activity and it is not an 
ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a regulated activity. Complaining about how a 
firm internally handled a complaint is also not a complaint as defined by the rules, because 
it is not  about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims 
management service or a redress determination . Sometimes a substantive complaint to 
a firm and the handling (or alleged mishandling) of that complaint by the firm can be 
connected (as parts of the same issue). For example, where the alleged mishandling of a 
complaint is said to have worsened the substantive problem or delayed its resolution. In 
such cases, determining the complaint handling aspect might then be a necessary part of 
determining the overall complaint. Mr Ds complaint is not that type of case. The events in 
his substantive complaint concluded  in February 2020  prior to his complaint to DW in 
August 2020, so the former is distinct from the latter, the latter stands in isolation and we do 
not have jurisdiction to address it  therefore we have no jurisdiction to address issue 3.
Issue 1
Overall and on balance, I do not find grounds to uphold issue 1  so, the direct implications 
are that DW is not responsible for any loss alleged in this issue and the associated allegation 
in issue 4 falls away.
I consider that important distinctions in the facts and timeline of events in this issue appear 
to have been blurred in the complaint submissions. Initially, the parties engaged to review  
Mr Ds accounts; the stage that followed featured recommendation for action (by DW) and/or 
instruction for action (by Mr D); then the last stage was implementation of the recommended 
and agreed, and/or instructed, action by DW. 
An immediate observation that arises from this approach is that there is no merit in Mr Ds 
claim that the implementation action that took place in January 2020 ought to have 
happened in March 2019. It is not disputed that the idea of a detailed review of his accounts 
had been initiated by March 2019 and that this began the review task, but implementation 
action cannot reasonably be expected at the same point that a review has just been initiated 
 prior to such a review being conducted/concluded, prior to instructions being given and or 
recommendations being made and prior to the instructed and/or recommended actions being 
agreed. 
A fair and reasonable approach is to consider whether (or not) there were avoidable delays 
in any of the three stages for which DW was/is responsible and, if so, whether (or not) any 
such delays made a difference to the timing of the transfer of Mr Ds accounts.
Issue 1 (Review)
DW has shared a chronology of events in which it refers to offering Mr D a review in 
February 2019 and then repeating the offer, with emphasis on conducting an in depth 
review, in March 2019. Mr D has also referred to communications in the same month which 
refer to the review. As I said above, it is not disputed that the review had been initiated by 
March 2019. DWs repeat offer was on 22 March.  
DW has given its evidence on rebalancing work that it performed in Mr Ds ISA in April, in 
execution of his instruction that month, and I have seen evidence of communications 
between DW and him in May 2019 with regards to other matters. This appears to have led to 
an email from DW to him on 10 June proposing a meeting on 27 June. He responded on the 
same date to confirm his availability for that meeting, and in that response he said it would 
be good for the meeting to also include an update on his and his wifes pension position. 
Mr D has described the meeting to us as follows  At the meeting on 27th June 2019 we discussed all of the above funds and I instructed DW 
to review these with a view to moving these to a new platform over concerns that these were 
underperforming in their existing platforms.
There is sufficient evidence that, on 27 June 2019, Mr D sought DWs advice beyond the 
notion of a general review and instead with regards to the specific objective of transferring 
his accounts to a new platform (because of underperformance in their existing platforms). 
Indeed, it is his express submission/evidence that this is the date on which DW was 
instructed to conduct this task. 
The conclusions that reasonably follow are that the initial general review was agreed around 
the end of March, then some work and discussions happened with regards to Mr Ds ISA 
and other matters between April and May, and then by the time of the meeting towards the 
end of June there was agreement on DW undertaking the specific task of advising on 
transfers. Thus far, and on balance, I am not persuaded that DW caused a delay in the 
review stage of the process. It appears to have maintained a reasonable level of 
engagement with Mr D, and on the relevant subject matter, between the end of March and 
the meeting in June.
Issue 1 (Recommendation/Proposal)
The second and more focused limb of the review task essentially amounted to DWs 
responsibility to advise/recommend/propose a solution to Mr Ds transfer objective. This 
began after the meeting of 27 June.
DW has referred to contact and enquiries it made with the SIPP provider in August and then 
to the proposal it submitted to Mr D on 20 September. Mr D highlights that the proposal was 
prompted by his chaser to DW earlier in September seeking progress and an update. Email 
evidence supports this. 
The conclusion that follows it that DW concluded its task of advising specifically on the 
transfers on 20 September. The task was agreed/undertaken towards the end of June but it 
could be said that nothing appears to have happened in July. DW then conducted some 
enquiries into the SIPP in August. I do not seek to justify DWs seeming inactivity in the 
matter in July and I consider that it could and should have conducted work towards the task 
in this month. I also consider that it ought not to have needed prompting from Mr D in 
September. 
These arguably amount to some delays (up to around a month and a half) in the 
recommendation/proposal stage of the overall process that DW appears to have been 
responsible for but, on balance and in the circumstances of the case, I am not persuaded 
that they were significant. In April, some rebalancing work had already taken place in Mr Ds 
ISA and available evidence is that around five hours of research and preparatory work went 
into the production of September proposal, so the implication is that some of the periods  
prior to the proposal  in which DW appears to have been inactive were probably used for 
such work. Overall and on balance, where Mr D says the proposal could have been 
concluded earlier I agree with him, but I am not persuaded that it was concluded 
unreasonably late or that it could have been concluded as early as he claims.
Issue 1 (Implementation)
Mr D declined the September proposal. I need not make a finding on his reasons for doing 
so  in terms of his responsibility in the matter. The facts were that he was the client and he 
was fully entitled to reject the proposal if he wished to. However, the result was that DW had to revisit the proposal and produce another one, which consumed time. I have considered 
whether (or not) there was/is fault in the way it produced the first proposal that could have 
avoided the need for the second. In this respect  that is, in terms of DWs responsibility in 
the matter  Mr Ds reasons for rejecting it become relevant. He says he did so because of 
DWs fees within the proposal. 
A firm can apply reasonable discretion on the matter of its fees and that is usually influenced 
by different factors, including the level of work to be conducted, its relationship with the client 
and the competitiveness of the level of fees it seeks to apply. I have not seen evidence that 
DW exercised this discretion unreasonably in the first proposal, so whilst Mr D was entitled 
to seek negotiation of the fees I do not consider that DW is at fault for the need of the 
second proposal and for the time consumed by that. I do not suggest that, instead, Mr D 
holds this fault. He does not. It was simply a neutral matter of the proposal having to be 
revisited, and time being consumed for that reason, in order to reconsider/negotiate fees.
DW issued its second proposal in October and Mr D accepted it on 13 November. DW 
acknowledged this on the next day. Towards the end of November, it gave a brief progress 
report (promising the uploading of information unto the relevant portal the following week). In 
early December it issued risk profile updates for Mr D and his wife, and on 16 December    
Mr D sought a progress report. The investigators findings on events in January 2020 
accurately describe what then followed. As I summarised (his findings) in the background 
section above  
DWs suitability report for him was issued on 6 January 2020 and this was followed on 10 
January by the new platform application pack and regulatory documents; he returned the 
completed documents on 20 January and DW submitted them on the same date; the ISA 
transfer was completed on 4 February and the SIPP transfer was completed on 24 February
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that DW caused an unreasonable delay to the 
implementation stage of the process. The stage began with the September proposal, but as I 
said above it was not DWs fault that an agreed proposal was not concluded until 13 
November. It appears to have been engaged in implementation related work up to the end of 
November and it was engaged in risk profiling work in early December. There appears to be 
inactivity on its part thereafter and up to the report and documentation it issued on 6 and 10 
January 2020, but I consider similarly to what I said in the previous sub-section above. Work 
in preparation for the report and the documentation probably consumed some of this time. 
Furthermore, some allowance should be given for the Christmas break in December. 
Overall and on balance, I make a similar finding to what I said above about conclusion of the 
first proposal. The suitability report and platform documentation could have been issued a 
little earlier than 6 and 10 January, perhaps they could even have been issued around the 
time of Mr Ds 16 December update request, but I am not persuaded that they were issued 
unreasonably late. Mr D returned the documentation on 20 January and DW submitted it on 
the same date. Thereafter, I have not seen evidence of its responsibility for any delay in the 
process up to the concluded transfers on 4 and 24 February.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold issue 1. As I do not find 
that DW was culpable/responsible in issue 1, it follows that I do not find it responsible for the 
claim in issue 4 about mitigation of alleged loss arising from issue 1.
Issue 2 (DWs Fees)
I consider the following to be evidence relevant to determining this issue:
The platform application client declaration form signed by Mr D on 20 January 2020. This document has featured in the debate over this issue. Mr D does not recall it and 
he does not consider a copy was ever given to him. Nevertheless, the document has 
his signature on it, so I am satisfied that he was aware of it at the relevant time and 
that he approved its contents (which is evident from his signature). The document 
states the £2,500 initial advice fee, but he says it does not describe the work covered 
by the fee. The first section of the form confirmed his application for the pension and 
ISA portfolios on the platform; the fourth section confirmed that adviser related initial 
and ongoing charges  distinct from the platforms charges  will be paid by the 
platform provider on his behalf from his platform account (and could involve the 
liquidation of his investments to cover such payments if there is insufficient cash in 
the account); this section continues to set out, specifically, that the initial advise 
charge of £2,500 related only to his pension account (with his pension account 
number, only, stated) and that the ongoing adviser charge related only to his 
pension, ISA and investment accounts; and the fifth section sets out management 
related fees for his three accounts. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that the 
document, as a whole, made clear what was covered by each of the different 
fees/charges and that the fees/charges were presented only for his accounts and not 
his wifes. I acknowledge his point about the execution that followed, which involved 
work for his childrens accounts despite them not being mentioned under the fees. 
However, my view on this differs from his. It does not necessarily mean that the fee 
arrangement was unclear because of this and/or that an assumption should be made 
that the £2,500 fee covered more than work for Mr D because work was also done 
for his children without extra payment. Instead, I consider that the fee basis upon 
which DW acted for his childrens accounts is what appears to have been unclear, 
not the fee basis upon which it acted for his accounts. The fee basis upon which DW 
acted for his accounts was sufficiently clear from the form and signed declaration. 
Mr D says communications between him and DW led him to believe that the fees it 
quoted covered all accounts. The communications between both sides on 20 
September 2019, with regards to the first proposal, does not lend itself to this 
argument. Both emails on this date focused on Mr D and his accounts and his email 
includes references to the annual fee he paid, his expectation that his funds would be 
reviewed under this fee, his displeasure about a lack of reviews since transferring his 
account to DW and his negotiation of the proposal related fees on these grounds. 
DWs revised proposal of 8 October broadly maintained focus on Mr D and his 
accounts, and Mr Ds wifes accounts does not appear to have been mentioned 
within it. The fees it proposed for initial and ongoing service were set out in relation to 
his accounts. The suitability report of 6 January was prepared only for Mr D. In the 
section that recommended the SIPP transfer  between pages 8 and 9 of the 
document  reference is made to the £2,500 initial advice charge. Then, as 
addressed above, the platform documentation sent to him on 10 January and 
completed by him on 20 January included the client declaration, with the 
fees/charges references (including the £2,500 initial advice charge), which he signed. 
I do not say or suggest that Mr D did not consider the charge covered all accounts 
(including his wifes), perhaps he did and perhaps he perceived some 
communications as indicative or supportive of this, but, on the balance of available 
evidence, I am persuaded that there was enough in the communications to make it 
reasonably clear to him that the charge related only to his accounts.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold issue 2.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman