DRN-3215181
The complaint
E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined a claim it made 
under a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to E or Aviva includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
E took out a commercial combined policy through a broker, which included Aviva 
legal expenses cover. The policy began on 14 January 2020.
On 17 January 2020, E dismissed one of its staff  Person A.
Person A appealed the dismissal, and subsequently notified E of their intention to 
bring the matter to an employment tribunal. Within their claim form, they cited a 
disagreement with a staff member and events going back to 17 December 2019.
Aviva declined the claim, saying the trigger point for the claim (the disagreement) 
began prior to the inception of the policy. So, it said E should approach their previous 
insurer  Company A.
One of our investigators upheld the complaint. He noted that both Aviva and 
Company As policies didnt cover the claim, but on a fair and reasonable basis he 
felt Aviva should cover it.
Aviva disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued 
my provisional thoughts of the complaint on 13 December 2021, explaining why I didnt 
intend on upholding the complaint. Ive included part of this decision below.
When taking out insurance, its common for parties to shop around and switch insurers at 
renewal. This can mean the type of policy they buy could be different and have different 
requirements that crossover or create a gap between policies.
The main example of this is when a consumer holds a claims made policy with one insurer. 
Then at renewal, they decide to take out a claims occurring policy with another insurer with 
no gap in cover.
Company A says it wont cover this claim. This is because it operates on a claims made 
basis, and the employment tribunal claim form wasnt received until several months after the 
Company A policy ended. So, Company A wont deal with the claim as it says it wouldve 
needed to be made during the policy period which is no longer in place.
Avivas policy operates on a claims occurring basis. It has declined the claim as it says the 
event that caused the claim to happen took place before the policy began. And so, Aviva 
also wont deal with the claim.
Our investigator has explained he feels the claim wouldnt be covered by the policy terms. 
But, in line with FCA principles of treating customers fairly, he said this Service would expect 
one of the insurers to pick up the claim in these types of circumstances. This is because we 
dont think its right for a claim to fall between two stools where theres no gap in cover. 
From what Ive been given, Es Company A policy ended on 31 December 2019. Then the 
Aviva policy wasnt taken until some weeks after. So, it appears there was a gap in cover of 
at least a couple of weeks. Significantly, it seems therefore E was aware it didnt have 
continuous cover or at least shouldve known this. For this reason, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair or reasonable to direct Aviva to act outside of its policy terms in this case. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Aviva fairly declined the claim.
This policy says for all civil cases, the date of occurrence is when the cause of action 
accrued. E has indicated the disagreement that took place on 17 December 2019 was not 
significant, and it wouldnt be practical for a business to contact its LEI provider each time an 
internal dispute of that nature took place.
To my knowledge Aviva hasnt argued E shouldve contacted its insurer earlier than it did, 
nor at the point of this dispute. Instead it has simply stated the date of the occurrence that 
led to the claim took place in December 2019.
This December date is reflected in Person As claim form, and seemingly isnt disputed as 
the origin of the disagreement. So it looks to me that there was an active and ongoing 
disagreement at the point E bought the policy. As a result, Im satisfied E ought reasonably 
to have known that the nature of the disagreement (an employment dispute) meant it might 
lead to legal action, but still proceeded to go without LEI cover for several weeks. It follows 
Im persuaded Aviva has fairly determined the cause of action, and in turn the date of 
occurrence, began prior to the start of the policy.
So, I think Aviva has fairly declined the claim on the basis the date of occurrence was prior 
to the inception of the policy. And for the reasons Ive outlined, I see no fair or reasonable 
reason to direct Aviva to cover this claim as E was without continuous cover.
E has also said it would have expected terms and conditions to be similar across policies. 
But this is not the case, and both claims made and claims occurring policies are common 
within this market. I understand E took out the policy through a broker, so this may be an 
issue it wishes to raise with them.
I gave the opportunity to both parties to respond. Ive summarised Es response below.
E attached a letter from its broker that it said showed E had insurance cover from 1 
January 2020 onwards. And he said the dates of cover didnt match up with the 
details Aviva had provided us with. This letter refers to Public & Product Liability 
Insurance taken out with an insurer Ill call Company B.
E reiterated its feeling that Aviva had unfairly relied on the date in November 2019 as 
significant for the purposes of the claim.
E asked me to consider that it expected changes in terms of cover to be confirmed in 
plain English and not insurance jargon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva has provided a copy of Es policy schedule. This outlines the effective date of 
the Aviva LEI policy as 14 January 2020. There was some back and forth between 
our investigator and Aviva previously, as it was mentioned this was amended to a 
later date of 29 January 2020. In either event, Im satisfied there was a break in cover 
between the Company A and Aviva policies of several weeks.
E has provided a copy of a letter from a broker, saying it had taken Public & Product 
Liability Insurance with Company B from 1 January 2020. Its unclear to me if this is 
even a related policy as it makes no reference to Aviva or LEI cover, and instead a 
separate insurer entirely. But even if these policies were connected somehow, this 
letter alone from Es broker doesnt persuade me Avivas schedule for LEI cover, as 
the insurer, was wrong. 
Ive considered Es points about the significance of the date in December 2019 within 
my provisional decision and its comments havent changed my mind.
E has explained it expects changes of cover to be explained to it. However, 
seemingly the cover was arranged by Es broker. So, if these terms werent 
explained, I wouldnt expect this responsibility to fall to Aviva.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman