DRN-4251655
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as T, complains that Barclays Bank Plc failed to honour a 
quote for merchant services.
What happened
In April 2022 T had an existing contract with a third party, which I will refer to as the previous 
provider, enabling it to take card payments. Most if not all of the card payments T took were 
from a customer whose card issuer was outside the UK. The previous provider charged 
additional fees in those circumstances, so T approached Barclays to ask if it could provide 
the same services at lower cost.
Barclays sales representative told T that given Ts circumstances, Barclays pricing was 
about 40% cheaper than the previous providers pricing. T therefore agreed to enter into a 
contract with Barclays, and cancelled its contract with the previous provider.
Barclays began processing payments for T in May 2022. T quickly discovered that Barclays 
sales representatives claims were not true, and that Barclays also applies additional 
charges when a card issuer is outside the UK. T therefore complained to Barclays.
Barclays accepted that its sales representative had made a mistake. It apologised, and 
refunded its May 2022 charges of £1,104.32 as a gesture of goodwill.
T was not satisfied that Barclays response to its complaint, and referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators looked at the matter, and 
recommended that in addition to the charges it had already refunded, Barclays should also 
refund the early settlement fees T had had to pay in order to exit its contract with the 
previous provider together with interest on that amount.
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, and told us it has applied a credit of 
£821.40 to Ts account with it. That amount consisted of £756.40 in respect of the previous 
acquirers early settlement fee, and £65.00 for gross interest.
T did not accept our investigators opinion, and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Ts directors said that T had to pay fees to both Barclays and the previous 
provider for a period, and that overall it cost T more than £3,000 to move to Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator, for broadly 
the same reasons. Briefly, my findings are:
The fees Barclays charged to T were consistent with Barclays published charges, 
and in line with the contract between T and Barclays  but they were considerably 
more than Barclays sales representative had told Ts directors they would be.
If Barclayss sales representative had not misrepresented its fees to Ts directors, T 
is likely to have remained with the previous provider.
Nevertheless, the actions Barclays have already taken are sufficient to put matters 
rights.
I give more details below.
Everyone accepts that Barclays sales representative made a mistake. She appears to have 
believed that Barclays charges for accepting EEA issued cards were the same as its 
charges for accepting UK issued cards. As a result, she wrongly told Ts directors that 
Barclays monthly charges would be about 40% lower than the previous providers charges.
In fact, although Barclays and the previous provider had different charging structures, the 
overall charges applied by the two companies were broadly similar. They were not identical 
 and given the different charging structures, which company was cheaper would depend on 
the number and types of transactions undertaken  but they were similar. The sales 
representatives comment that Barclays would charge T around 40% less than its competitor 
did was simply not true. 
Ive also noted Ts directors suggestion that Barclays sales representative told him 
Barclays fees would have been limited to £1386.66 per month. But I dont think she did tell 
him there was such a limit. Ive seen an email in which she explained that if the previous 
providers charges in a particular month were £2,533.97, then Barclays charges for the 
same transactions would only be £1,386.18. She was wrong to say that, but I think its clear 
from her email that her point was that Barclays charges were lower than the previous 
providers charges. She was not saying that T would never have to pay more than £1,386.66 
per month, and I think she made clear that both Barclays and the previous providers 
charges depended on the value of, and volume of, transactions in a month. 
Ive thought carefully about what fair compensation should look like. I dont think it would be 
fair for me to put T into the position it would have been in if the sales representative had not 
misrepresented the benefits of the Barclays contract. I am satisfied that once T moved to 
Barclays, Barclays properly applied its charges in line with its terms and conditions. The 
problem here is not that Barclays applied the wrong charges  the problem is that T would 
not have become Barclays customer in the first place if Barclays sales representative had 
given accurate information about charges.
So far as possible, my aim is therefore to put T in the position it would have been in if 
Barclays had not made an error. The difference between the fees charges by Barclays and 
the fees that would have been charged by the previous provider is relatively small, and more 
than covered by Barclays decision to refund £1,104.32 of its own changes.
T had to pay an early termination fee in order to exit from its contract with the previous 
provider, but Barclays has already refunded that amount, plus interest at 8% simple. 
Overall, and taking into account both of the refunds Barclays has already made, I am 
satisfied that T has not lost out as a result of Barclays error.
I acknowledge that there was a period during which T had to pay fees to both Barclays and 
the previous provider. But T was processing transactions through both companies during that period, and so I dont think it would be fair for me to order Barclays to refund either set 
of fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that whilst Barclays Bank Plc did make a mistake, it has already done 
enough to put things right here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman