DRN-3878569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE have handled their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes also includes their agents.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs E took out a travel insurance policy to cover a trip abroad in 
March 2022. The policy was insured through Great Lakes.
While on their trip, Mr and Mrs E were attacked and a bag was stolen from them. The items 
were not recovered and so when they returned to the UK they made a claim to Great Lakes 
for the items stolen.
Great Lakes considered the claim and made a payment. One of the items stolen was a 
mobile phone and Great Lakes settled the claim at an amount of £150. 
Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with this settlement as they said the phone was worth over 
£700 and they couldnt replace it for this amount. So, they made a complaint to Great Lakes 
about the settlement amount and also the delay in processing their claim.
Great Lakes looked into the complaint but didnt think it needed to pay anything further. It 
said that policy included a limit for mobile phones which was £100 and so it couldnt pay the 
full amount. Great Lakes acknowledged that it had made a mistake and settled the claim for 
the mobile phone at £150, however, it wouldnt be asking for the additional £50 to be 
returned. It also acknowledged that Mr and Mrs Es claim had taken some time to process, 
which Great Lakes said was due to an increase in claims volumes and a lack of staffing 
following the Covid-19 pandemic. It apologised for any inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Great Lakes 
was entitled to apply the limit under the policy for the mobile phone. She also noted that it 
had actually paid more than Mr and Mrs E were entitled to for this item. In relation to the 
delays in processing the claim, our investigator found that there wasnt any unreasonable 
delays and that Great Lakes had managed Mr and Mrs Es expectations for how long it 
would take at each stage of the process.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the settlement amount for the mobile phone. They have said 
they cannot replace the phone for the amount that has been paid. 
The relevant section of the policy applicable to such claims is Section 6  Personal Effects 
and within this section it states that a limit of £100 will be applied to claims for mobile 
phones. Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept and the amount they are 
prepared to pay for that risk (in return for the premium). This just needs to be clearly set out 
in the terms and conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes has clearly set 
out the settlement limit for a mobile phone within the policy terms provided and it is fairly 
entitled to apply this limit.
Great Lakes has settled the claim for this item at more than the limit applicable under the 
policy  it has mistakenly paid £150 for this item  meaning Mr and Mrs E have received a 
higher settlement than they should have. Great Lakes noted it made an error and has stated 
that it is not looking to recover this additional amount from Mr and Mrs E. So, Mr and Mrs E 
have actually been paid more than the amount covered by the policy. I dont require Great 
Lakes to make any further payment for this item.
In relation to the time taken to process their claim, I can see that Mr and Mrs E first 
submitted their claim in mid-March 2022, but they didnt receive their claim settlement until 
early May 2022. Mr and Mrs E have said they were without a mobile phone during this time, 
while they waited for the claim to be settled. Ive also noted the circumstances of the theft 
which would have been incredibly traumatic for Mr and Mrs E, and I dont doubt that having 
to deal with the claim relating to this event was very difficult for them. Ive therefore 
considered this point very carefully. 
When processing any claim, it is often necessary for insurers to obtain further information to 
ensure that the claimed event meets the terms and conditions of the cover. And I can see 
that Great Lakes contacted Mr and Mrs E on a couple of occasions to enquire about some of 
the items taken and also about the date that they returned home. Great Lakes has 
apologised for delays in processing the claim, which it says is as a result of the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Ive noted that Great Lakes did make Mr and Mrs E aware that it could 
take up to 15 working days to process claims information  and in the main, Mr and Mrs E 
were contacted by Great Lakes within this timeframe when additional information was 
needed. So, Im not persuaded there were any unreasonable delays in the processing of 
Mr and Mrs Es claim.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the claim has been handled in a fair and 
reasonable manner and that Mr and Mrs E have received an appropriate settlement for the 
mobile phone. So Great Lakes doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman