DRN-2088302
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (formerly known as Legal & General 
Insurance Limited) declined a home insurance claim he made for an escape of water at his 
property. 
What happened
Mr D made a claim to Fairmead about an escape of water underneath his living room floor in 
December 2018. Fairmead advised Mr D he would only be covered for damage caused by 
the leak, and not for the damaged pipe. Mr D had the flooring lifted and the pipe repaired 
himself. Mr Ds contractor attributed the damage to corrosion from the concrete onto the 
pipe. He said the pipe ought to have been covered.
Mr Ds contractor lifted the entire living room flooring and some in the adjacent hallway area. 
Mr D has since replaced the concrete subfloor in the living room and hallway and has 
replaced his laminate flooring with carpet. He also installed a damp-proof membrane and 
lagging to all the subfloor pipework to protect it from further corrosion.
Fairmead initially declined Mr Ds claim. It said the damage was more likely caused by rising 
damp  as a result of there being no damp-proof membrane  as opposed to the leaking 
pipe.
 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
During her investigation, Fairmead agreed to reassess the claim as it accepted that some of 
the damage would have been caused by the escape of water. Fairmead took measurements 
from Mr D and reassessed the available photographs of the exposed pipework and damage 
to the flooring. Based on this, and the repair invoice provided by Mr D, it agreed to cover 
£390 for the replacement carpet, £120 for the concrete floor in the living room and £140 for 
the initial trace and access  although trace and access isnt covered by Mr Ds policy. 
Fairmead pointed out that Mr Ds policy excess was £600 which meant he would be due a 
payment of £50.
Our investigator considered that Fairmeads offer, in respect of settling the claim, was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. But she thought Fairmead should pay Mr D £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him in incorrectly declining his 
claim in the first instance.
 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr D has highlighted several concerns, my decision focuses only on the issues I 
consider to be material to the outcome of his complaint. But I have carefully considered the 
full timeline of events when reaching my decision.
The fact that Mr D has suffered a loss as a result of an insured event is no longer in dispute. 
The issue that remains for me to decide is whether Fairmeads offer of settlement is in line 
with the policy terms and whether it is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Mr Ds policy covers him for damage caused by an escape of water. But it doesnt cover him 
for rising damp. 
Fairmeads loss adjuster visited Mr Ds property on 14 December 2018 to assess Mr Ds 
claim. At this point the burst pipe work had been exposed, and fixed. Mr D subsequently 
provided an invoice, from his builder, dated 17 December 2018 which explained that for 
£1,200, the damaged floor was dug up and refilled, damp proof membrane was installed, 
and the pipework was properly insulated.
Once Fairmead had accepted that some of the damage would have been caused by the 
escape of water, and so would be covered by Mr Ds policy, it asked Mr D to get an itemised 
breakdown of the works carried out by the builder, so that it could properly assess its liability. 
Mr D wasnt able to get any further clarification from his builder. Because of this, Fairmead 
asked for measurements of the flooring areas from Mr D and used these to help calculate a 
cash settlement. 
Fairmead states that the area of flooring affected by the escape of water is around one tenth 
the total size of the flooring replaced by the builder. Based on this, it has offered to pay £120 
toward the costs Mr D incurred in having the flooring replaced. Fairmead has also agreed to 
cover the initial £140 Mr D spent in tracing the leak, despite his policy not covering him for 
trace and access. It says it has done this because the area of flooring dug up during trace 
and access would also have required replacement due to the damage caused by the escape 
of water. In addition, Fairmead has also offered £390 toward the carpet Mr D purchased to 
replace the laminate flooring.
Mr D argues that the area damaged by the escape of water was much more significant than 
Fairmead says. Hes provided photos showing lifting laminate in the living room and tiles in 
the hallway. Fairmead has considered these, but it argues that the other areas of wetness 
are far away from the area of damaged pipework, and so arent likely to have been caused 
by the escape of water. It has also highlighted that any wetness to the concrete flooring, 
from the escape of water, would likely have dried out once the leak had been fixed. 
Fairmead says that all of the concrete would have needed to have been lifted in order for the 
damp proof membrane to be fitted  which isnt something covered by the policy. And it has 
pointed out that the underlay in place at the time of the escape of water was waterproof, so it 
says its unlikely the laminate flooring required replacement. But despite this, it offered £390 
toward the carpet purchased by Mr D to replace the laminate. Ultimately Fairmead feels the 
offer it made is fair, particularly as it hasnt been able to obtain any clarification from Mr Ds 
builder on the works completed.Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence and arguments provided. Considering the 
level of alleged damage to the concrete flooring and the proximity of some areas of damage 
to the burst pipes, I dont think its likely that most of the damage was caused by the escape 
of water. It seems more likely that the lack of damp-proof membrane and rising damp would 
have caused a lot of the damage, based on the loss adjusters report and initial builders 
invoice. I agree that lifting the entire concrete floor in order to install damp proof membrane 
would not have been covered by Mr Ds policy. I also havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr Ds laminate required replacement due to water damage. So, based on the available 
evidence, I think Fairmeads offer of £260 toward replacement of the concrete floor (which 
includes the £140 for the initial trace and assess) and £390 toward replacement carpet is fair 
and reasonable, taking into account the circumstances of this complaint. I dont think 
Fairmead needs to pay anything more toward settlement of Mr Ds claim.
Mr D has argued that if Fairmead hadnt incorrectly declined the claim when it did, they may 
have been involved in the repairs and so things mightve worked out differently. 
Its clear that Fairmeads decision to decline the claim, in full, was incorrect considering that 
there had clearly been an escape of water which would have, at least, contributed to the 
damage. But even if Fairmead had accepted the claim, and been involved in the repairs, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that it would have reached a different overall claim 
decision than the one it has reached now. 
That said, Fairmead did incorrectly decline the claim in full. And it was only after Mr D 
exhausted Fairmeads complaints process, and escalated his concerns to our service, that 
Fairmead decided to reassess the claim and accepted that some of the damage would be 
covered by Mr Ds policy. I think this would have been understandably frustrating for Mr D. 
So, in the circumstances I think Fairmead should pay Mr D £150 compensation to reflect the 
impact its mistake had on him.
Putting things right
In order to fairly settle Mr Ds complaint, Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
Settle Mr Ds claim in line with the offer it has made (£650 less the policy excess)
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. Fairmead Insurance 
Limited must put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman