DRN-3933101
The complaint
Mr V complains about the customer service he received from Acorn Insurance & Financial 
Services Ltd. 
What happened
In July 2022, Mr V called Acorn to discuss his motor insurance policy which had renewed in 
March. Mr V was transferred to another team to complete a change of address. He raised a 
complaint as he was kept on hold for an hour and a half. Mr V accepted £25 that Acorn 
offered to compensate him for this.
A couple of days later, Mr V called Acorn and asked to cancel his policy. However, he then 
received further documentation from Acorn which indicated that his policy was continuing 
until March 2023. 
Mr V called Acorn again the following week. Acorn says it cancelled the policy with effect 
from 1 August 2022 and sent Mr V an email to let him know the outstanding balance that 
needed to be paid.
Shortly afterwards, Mr V asked our service to consider his concerns about Acorn. He told us 
Acorn hadnt cancelled his policy as requested and had extended his policy instead. Mr V 
said he hadnt received the £25 compensation Acorn had promised him. He told us that 
when hed tried to raise this with Acorn, it refused to re-open his complaint. 
After we put Mr Vs concerns to Acorn, it responded to his complaint. It said it wasnt able to 
cancel Mr Vs policy when hed requested it on 27 July 2022, because there was a direct 
debit waiting to be paid. Instead, the agent set a diary date for the cancellation quote to 
include whether the direct debit was paid or returned unpaid. 
Acorn said that when Mr V contacted it again on 5 August, the cancellation was processed 
from 1 August 2022 and Mr V received a document confirming an outstanding balance, 
which he disputed. Acorn apologised for the delay in cancelling Mr Vs policy and said it was 
awarding him £25 for this. 
Acorn said the £25 it had awarded Mr V for his previous complaint had been applied to his 
finance agreement. However, due to the cancellation of his policy Mr V hadnt received it. 
So, it awarded him another £25 to make up for this. This meant Mr Vs outstanding balance 
of £210.69 had been reduced to £160.69.
Mr V remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Acorn had paid Mr V a reasonable amount of compensation for the short delay in cancelling 
his policy and the correspondence hed received during that time. 
Mr V disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the customer service he received 
from Acorn was unacceptable. He said he was quoted different amounts of money owed and 
was provided with incorrect information. He said Acorn had threatened him with a default on 
his credit file and passed the outstanding debt to a debt collector. He also raised concerns 
about how Acorn had handled his complaint. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. Id like to reassure Mr V I have 
considered all his points, even if Ive not addressed each of them individually. Ive focused 
on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of his complaint.
Mr V says Acorn didnt cancel his policy as requested but extended it instead. He says he 
was quoted different amounts of money owed and was provided with incorrect information. 
Hes forwarded a number of emails he received from Acorn and the finance company, which 
Ive reviewed alongside Acorns records.
From what Ive seen, Mr V phoned Acorn on 25 July 2022 and a change of address was 
actioned. This appears to have resulted in a decrease in Mr Vs premium. I can see that     
Mr V was issued correspondence to reflect the change the following day. This included a 
revised policy schedule and a letter from the finance company with an amended payment 
schedule. 
Acorn has noted that Mr V also raised a complaint about the length of time hed been kept 
on hold on 25 July, and he accepted its offer of £25 compensation for this. Acorn says this 
was applied to Mr Vs finance agreement. I can see Acorn sent a letter dated 29 July 2022 
which shows a Total Adjustment Premium Payable of £-25. The finance company sent    
Mr V an email and letter on 1 August 2022, showing a further reduction in Mr Vs monthly 
instalments. So, Im satisfied Acorn applied the £25 compensation it had awarded towards 
Mr Vs finance agreement as it says it did. 
However, by the time this adjustment was made, Mr V had asked Acorn to cancel his policy 
(on 27 July).  Acorn said the agent couldnt cancel the policy during Mr Vs phone call due to 
a direct debit being in batch waiting to be paid. It wanted to make sure that the cancellation 
quote was correct, so it needed to wait to see if the direct debit instalment was paid or 
returned unpaid. Acorn has noted advising Mr V of diarising this action. And I can see from 
the payment schedule that the direct debit instalment was due to be paid on the first of the 
month. So, Im satisfied with Acorns explanation as to why the cancellation wasnt 
processed on 27 July.  
Acorns notes of this conversation arent very detailed. I dont know if it clearly explained to 
Mr V that it wasnt able to cancel the policy straight away. Mr V says that Acorn extended his 
policy after he asked it to cancel it. But I think hes likely to have been confused by the 
correspondence he received on 29 July and 1 August, which went out as a result of the £25 
compensation being applied to his finance agreement. The revised schedule issued on 29 
July shows an expiry date of 23 March 2023, which is the same expiry date showing on the 
schedule sent to him in March 2022. So, Im not persuaded that Acorn extended Mr Vs 
policy.
I can see that the cancellation was processed with effect from 1 August after Mr V called 
again on 5 August. Mr V was sent letters and emails to confirm this the same day. This 
included a letter informing him there was a balance payable of £210.69. Mr V also raised concerns that he didnt receive the £25 he was promised in the call of 25 
July. Ive explained why Im satisfied that Acorn applied this to Mr Vs finance agreement to 
reduce the amount he owed at the time. However, Mr V doesnt appear to have benefited 
from this reduction because he cancelled the policy. Acorn acknowledged this in its final 
response email of 7 October 2022 and reduced his outstanding balance by another £25 for 
this reason. I think thats fair.
I appreciate Mr V doesnt feel the compensation Acorn has awarded is sufficient. However, 
using financial services wont always be hassle free and our service wont always award 
compensation when a business makes a mistake. Wed normally say an apology or small 
monetary award is enough to remedy a mistake if it causes minimal impact and is put right 
quickly.
Mr V has received £25 compensation for the time he was kept holding on the phone on 25 
July. Hes received a further £25 for the short delay in cancelling his policy. I think these 
amounts are reasonable under the circumstances. Its possible Acorn didnt clearly explain 
that it wasnt able to cancel the policy straight away when Mr V called. This may have 
resulted in some unnecessary confusion for Mr V. But the matter appears to have been 
resolved nine days after he called to cancel. 
The £50 compensation has been used to reduce Mr Vs outstanding balance and I think this 
is reasonable to put things right.
Mr V has also raised concerns about being contacted by a debt collection agency, while his 
complaint has been with our service. Theres no obligation on a business to place a hold on 
recovery action while a complaint is with us. So, Mr Vs comments about this havent made a 
difference to the outcome Ive reached. 
I know my answer will be disappointing to Mr V, but I dont require Acorn to do anything 
further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman