DRN-1782388
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy shortly after taking out a mortgage with Nationwide 
1996. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The PPI covered Mr H against being 
unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful 
claim the policy benefit was £500 per month and could have been paid for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this Ms case.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr and Mrs H were given a fair choice about whether to 
buy the policy.
The sale of the policy took place 24 years ago. Mr and Mrs H recall they initially had a 
meeting with a member of staff from Nationwide. They say that during the meeting they were 
pressured to take out the PPI policy but chose instead not to take the mortgage or PPI 
during the meeting.
Later they arranged a Nationwide mortgage through an intermediary without PPI.
After the mortgage completed Mr and Mrs H say they recalled the conversation about PPI 
they had with the Nationwide representative. And because of the pressure the Nationwide 
had put them under to take the PPI they decided to apply for the policy.
I have thought about this carefully. Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage had completed before they 
applied for the PPI. So, it is clear they would have been aware the PPI was optional and that 
they didnt have to take it out.
In this case Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that they were pressured by Nationwide using scare 
tactics to the extent they felt they should take the policy. On the other hand Nationwide say 
its representative would have given Mr and Mrs H information about the policy but would not 
have pressured them to take it. 
Pressure is quite subjective in that what one person perceives as pressure another may not. 
I have no doubt the Nationwide representative would have told Mr and Mrs H about the 
potential benefits of the policy and the consequences of not being able to make the mortgage payments, but I dont think that alone would be enough for me to uphold the 
complaint.
Ive seen the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs H subsequently completed with the 
mortgage intermediary, and they declined PPI at that time. So at the time they completed the 
mortgage application they felt able to apply for the mortgage without the cover.
I am aware Mr and Mrs H say the Nationwide employees pressure played on their minds 
following the completion of the mortgage. But equally it could be that Mr and Mrs H thought 
about the new financial commitment they had made and decided to take out the cover for the 
security it provided. 
Taking everything into account Ive not seen enough to persuade me that it is more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs H were pressured into taking out the policy. So I wont uphold the 
complaint on this point. 
From experience I am aware that Nationwide generally did not offer mortgage applicants a 
personal recommendation to take out PPI. So it didnt have to ensure the policy was right for 
Mr and Mrs H. But it did still have to give them clear information about the policy, so they 
could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
I dont know what information was given to Mr and Mrs H at the meeting and it could be that 
Nationwide did not give them all the information it should have done. But thats not enough 
to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs M would have 
changed their minds about buying the policy if they been given better or clearer information. 
I cant say they would have done. I say this for the following reasons.
The policy was taken out to cover Mr H only. I can see he was the larger wage earner and I 
can see Mrs H worked in the public sector and was likely to have had good employer sick 
pay benefits. Mr H worked in the private sector and cannot recall his employers sick pay 
benefits but they are unlikely to have been as generous. So it looks like Mr and Mrs H chose 
to cover Mr H based on their circumstances at the time, and that Mr H was the one who was 
most in need of the cover.
Mr H was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations contained in the terms and conditions. For instance, he has told us he had no    
pre-existing medical conditions that would not have been covered. So, Mr H would have 
been able to make a successful claim if he had needed to.
The policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr H had become unable 
to work through sickness or an accident. This is likely to have been longer than Mr H would 
have received sick pay from his employer. So he would have found the policy useful if he 
had not been able to work. Particularly if he wasnt able to work for a prolonged period of 
time.
Mr and Mrs H have told us they had savings available. But they chose to keep the savings 
available rather than take a smaller mortgage. So it looks like they wanted to keep the 
savings intact. And the PPI policy would have meant they didnt need to dip into their savings 
to pay the mortgage if Mr H could not work.
Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H so I dont think 
any better information about the premiums would have put them off buying the policy.In summary, I think Mr and Mrs H were given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy 
and they chose to take it out. Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to find that Mr and 
Mrs H were unfairly pressured into taking the PPI. And even if they were given clearer 
information about the policy, I still think they would have bought it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman