DRN-1420429
 
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Mr P and Mrs P in 1995. 
The policy was taken out as a joint policy and covered both Mr P and Mrs P against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment. The policy and mortgage ended by February 2007.
Mr P and Mrs P say the MPPI policy was added to their mortgage when they called 
Santander to rearrange their mortgage. They say that on no occasion during their call was 
PPI discussed. They say they didn't need it and it was added without their knowledge. They 
think Santander mis-sold the policy to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr P and Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr P and Mrs Ps case.
Mr P and Mrs P say the MPPI was added without their knowledge during a phone call when 
they were rearranging their mortgage, whereas Santander are not sure where the policy was 
sold. As Santander are not sure but Mr P and Mrs P are, I will proceed that it was sold during 
a phone call. 
I have decided not to uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mr P and Mrs P were given a choice to have the 
MPPI policy  they say it was added without their knowledge. This has been a 
difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see the sales 
documentation that would have been used at the time of sale like a call recording or 
call script. Although this is understandable due to the many years that have passed 
since the date of sale. 
 
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also 
read Mr P and Mrs Ps recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Mr P and Mrs P and Santander during the phone call. Its 
completely understandable that Mr P and Mrs Ps recollections are not detailed and 
as I have already said the sale took place many years ago. And because of this and considering what I know of sales carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think 
the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say Santander didnt mention or 
explain that MPPI was an optional feature during the phone call. I havent, on this 
occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely draw that conclusion.
 
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr P and 
Mrs P or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for them. On looking at the very limited information 
provided and also taking into consideration what the parties have said, and what I 
know of Santander sales during this time, I think advice was given.
 
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr P and 
Mrs P. I say this after considering their circumstances at the time of sale. Because, 
although they say they had excellent sick pay at the time of sale (Mrs P says she 
would have had between 6-12 months sick pay) that they could have used, the MPPI 
policy would have paid out in addition to their means. Having the policy in place 
would mean Mr P and Mrs P could use any provisions they may have had to cover 
other expenses. 
 
Mr P and Mrs P were both also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the 
policys main benefits such as, for example, those that affect self-employed people or 
policy holders with pre-existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mr and Mrs P needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if they 
had received clear information on these terms I dont think it would have put them off. 
So I am persuaded the policy was suitable for Mr P and Mrs P.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Mr P and Mrs P clear information about the costs of 
the policy, but even if it did, I dont think Mr P and Mrs P would have done anything 
differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable.
 
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale, but based on what I have, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman