DRN-1617759
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Ms B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage which 
started in 1999.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 20 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Ms B has said she was told she could not have the mortgage if she didnt take PPI. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. So, without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Ms Bs willing consent.
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Ms B, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for Ms Bs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Ms Bs situation at the time: 
Its likely Ms B was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Ms B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Ms B would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Ms B in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Ms B would 
have been affected by any of these
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman