DRN-3766517
The complaint
This complaint is about how John Charcol Limited dealt with a product transfer on a 
mortgage Mr and Mrs G hold with a lender Ill call H. They say, in summary, that due to 
errors on John Charcols part, theyre paying more each month than they should be for the 
duration of the new product.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. Theres also a lot duplication of evidence and arguments. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented, using my own words, and rounding the figures involved.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from our 
investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to repeat all the 
details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Mr and Mrs G being identified. I will therefore keep my 
summary of the complaint quite brief.
Mr and Mrs G have their residential mortgage with H; they also have an extensive portfolio of 
buy-to-let (BTL) properties. Until the events that gave rise to this complaint, they used 
John Charcol to advise on and arrange their mortgage needs. In the summer of 2020, 
Mr and Mrs G asked John Charcol to do several things: these were:
advise on and arrange a new deal for their residential mortgage with H, the current deal 
for which was approaching the end of its term; and
advise on and arrange refinancing for one of the BTL properties.
Things went wrong with both transactions. The new product for the residential mortgage was 
delayed by a month  meaning H charged interest at its standard variable rate (SVR) for one 
month  and went through on a higher monthly payment than had been set out in an initial 
illustration John Charcol had provided. Meanwhile, two different sets of conveyancing 
solicitors were engaged in respect of the BTL re-financing, resulting in extra costs being 
incurred.
When Mr and Mrs G complained, John Charcols response gave them referral rights to this 
service in the event they werent satisfied with the outcome. Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied, 
and bought their complaint to us. However, our investigator explained that that our rules only 
gave us jurisdiction over what John Charcol did in respect of the residential mortgage. When 
he looked into that, the investigator wasnt persuaded John Charcol had caused a financial 
loss for which Mr and Mrs G further compensation than it had already offered.
Mr and Mrs G have asked for their complaint to be determined by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. As the investigator has set out, were not the 
regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes  when were able to  subject to rules laid down by the FCA (which are 
known as the DISP Rules). In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Amongst those rules are those that set out our jurisdiction; in simple terms, what we can 
deal with and what we cannot. We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our case-handling 
process, so for completeness, Ill confirm that the investigator was right when he said we 
couldnt look into the BTL complaint. Ill explain why.
Were not free to consider every complaint we receive. DISP 2.3.1 sets out the activities we 
can consider. The relevant activities in this case are regulated activities, as stated in DISP 
2.3.1 (1).
Part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about alleged shortcomings on John Charcols part 
whilst advising on and arranging the re-financing of a BTL mortgage. Advising on and 
arranging BTL mortgages, or amendments to existing BTL mortgages, are not regulated 
activities within the scope of DISP 2.3.1 (1). 
Mr and Mrs G have criticised John Charcol for encouraging them to refer both parts of the 
complaint only to then refuse us consent to look into the BTL element. The reality is that 
John Charcol had no option but to give them referral rights to this service on both elements 
of the complaint. The FCAs rules on how businesses handle complaint require that it does 
that. 
Whether a complaint  or part thereof  falls within our jurisdiction is not something a 
business can pre-judge or second-guess. Its solely a matter for us to apply our rules to a 
complaint, once it has been referred to us, and when it comes to regulated and unregulated 
activities, theres no provision in the rules for a business to consent to us looking into a 
complaint about an unregulated activity. Overall therefore, Im satisfied John Charcol did 
exactly the right thing regarding the referral to our service.
As for the aspect of the complaint that does fall with my remit to decide, the rules require me 
to decide whether the party bringing the complaint has suffered loss (financial or otherwise) 
as result of errors and/or omissions on the part of the business. Where theres a dispute 
about the events, I have to decide what is most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities. 
Thats broadly same test that the court use in civil cases, and in doing so, I consider all of 
the evidence from both parties to decide what is fair in all the circumstances. That consideration is confined to the disputed transaction itself, and not by reference to what 
happened in a similar dispute two years previously. 
Lastly, its for me to decide if I have enough evidence to decide a case fairly (Im satisfied 
thats the case here) and it is for me to decide how I interpret the evidence and how much 
weight I should give it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems to me that this case is much more simple and straightforward that 
it has been made to look. I say that because theres more (or sometimes less) to complaint 
resolution than deciding whats gone wrong, whos at fault and handing out blame. More 
often than not, its about deciding what a fair resolution should be. In my view thats the case 
here. So my starting point is the resolution John Charcol offered, which was to waive its 
broker fees, reimburse the extra interest H charged Mr and Mrs G when the mortgage was 
on SVR until the new product took effect, plus £250 compensation. 
All of those are fair and reasonable steps for John Charcol to take, and its right that it 
offered them. But it falls short of what Mr and Mrs G are seeking because they say they 
should be reimbursed the difference between the monthly payment they were originally 
quoted and the amount theyre actually paying, for the entire duration of the new product 
(which is three years).
The investigator wasnt convinced this claim had merit, and after very careful consideration 
of all the argument and evidence, Im not either. Heres why.
Its common ground that the first illustration John Charcol provided for the product switch 
quoted a monthly payment of a little over £1,200, but the actual amount Mr and Mrs G are 
paying is closer to £1,400. The reason for the discrepancy is that the first illustration was 
prepared on the assumption the whole mortgage is on interest-only, whereas a small part of 
it is on capital repayment terms, and the extra each month is the capital reduction 
component. 
A huge amount of the argument has been about who was to blame for the mix-up, but thats 
not what the outcome of the complaint turns on. I say that not least because by the time 
Mr and Mrs G agreed to take on the new product, the position had been clarified and they 
had the correct information about how much the monthly payment would be and why that 
was. 
Mr and Mrs G have said they only agreed to go ahead with the product switch on the 
understanding that John Charcol would arrange for H to switch the mortgage to fully 
interest-only, so that they could then pay the lower figure. I accept thats true, but what I take 
from that is that the potential availability or otherwise of a better deal with another lender is a 
moot point. Other than the small part of the mortgage being on capital repayment, which was 
already the case before the transaction began, I have to conclude that Mr and Mrs G were 
content with the new deal John Charcol had recommended with H.
I note that a switch of that one capital repayment element to interest-only didnt happen. 
Arguably, then, Mr and Mrs G have a case for saying John Charcol has failed to do what it 
said it would do after they signed up for the new deal. Of course, there was nothing to stop 
Mr and Mrs G going to H directly to ask for this to happen. That would at least have shown 
they were looking to mitigate the impact of any shortcoming on John Charcols part. But of greater significance  and where Mr and Mrs Gs claim ultimately has to fall down  is 
the fact that the extra amount they are paying H each month isnt a financial loss to them in 
the way they have portrayed it to be. They may be paying a little more each month than 
theyd like to, but that extra isnt being lost. Its money that is being taken off the balance of 
their mortgage debt. To put the point another way Mr and Mrs G are benefitting from that 
extra amount each month in the form of reduced debt, and in turn, less interest being 
charged on that debt. 
Theres nothing in the evidence theyve provided that would cause me to think Mr and Mrs G 
actually cant afford the extra amount each month to the extent that paying it causes them 
financial hardship. That being so, theyre better, rather than worse, off for paying the extra 
money each month, and there are absolutely no grounds for me to order John Charcol to 
reimburse them for it. If theres no loss, theres nothing to reimburse hence no redress to 
award.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mr and Mrs Gs submissions the intensity with which they have 
brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything the business has 
done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when 
youre as close to a situation as Mr and Mrs G have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
Mr and Mrs G dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
John Charcol will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mr and Mrs Gs right to take legal action against 
John Charco over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr and Mrs G to decide 
whether, on further reflection, they wish to accept any part of John Charcols settlement offer 
that hasnt been accepted and/or received earlier. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman