DRN-3372942
The complaint
Mrs J, a sole trader, complains about the decision of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
to decline part of her business interruption insurance claim, which she made as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only a brief summary of the events and issues. 
Mrs J operates a holiday accommodation business and held an industry specific commercial 
insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). The policy 
provided a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. 
Mrs J was forced to close her premises due to the COVID-19 pandemic. I understand that 
RSA has met her claims relating to the first and second national lockdown periods. 
However, Mrs J is unhappy that RSA declined her claim for losses relating to the period from 
4 July 2020 to 31 August 2020. Mrs J has said that the local area her premises are in was 
subject to further restrictions during this period. RSA has acknowledged that there were 
restrictions from the end of July, but that these did not require Mrs J to close her premises 
nor were they restrictions directed at her premises. 
Mrs J brought her complaint about this decision to the Ombudsman Service. But our 
Investigator did not think the requirements of the policy had been met for this period, so he 
thought RSA had come to a fair and reasonable decision. 
Mrs J remained unsatisfied and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mrs J, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why. 
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. None provide cover for business interruption due to any cause. And the 
requirements of the terms in the customers policy need to be met. So, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mrs J took out.
I have considered the whole policy, but I have focussed this decision on the key term. This 
provides cover for:
Loss as a result of
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises or within a radius of 25 miles of the 
Premises.
In order to claim for loss under this clause, all of the elements above must be satisfied. It is 
not enough that the business be interrupted as a result of one of these elements; each must 
be satisfied.
I note that Mrs J has referred to one of the policy wordings considered as part of the FCA 
test case and said that all that was required was an interruption to business due to 
COVID-19 within the 25-mile radius of the policy. However, Mrs Js policy contains the 
additional requirement that the premises be closed or have restrictions placed on it. This 
element too must be met in order for there to be a valid claim.
It isnt disputed that the premises are Mrs Js holiday home, that COVID-19 is a relevant 
notifiable human disease, or even that it manifested within 25 miles of the premises. The 
dispute is effectively limited to whether there was a closure or restriction placed on the 
premises as a result of this manifestation.
It is clear that for the first lockdown period March to July 2020, there were restrictions that 
were placed on the premises, and also that these caused the premises to close. The nature 
of Mrs Js business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay open during this 
period. However, these restrictions were removed in July 2020 and holiday accommodations 
were allowed to operate. 
Various restrictions were introduced after this, both locally to Mrs Js premises and 
nationally, that imposed restrictions on peoples behaviour. From when holiday 
accommodation was first allowed to reopen on 4 July, people from more than two 
households could not stay together overnight. Locally to Mrs Js premises, restrictions were 
then introduced at the end of July 2020. These required certain businesses to close and said 
that groups of people over a certain size could not gather. 
However, Mrs Js business was not one of those that were required to close. And the 
restrictions on gathering also do not seem to have denied Mrs J the ability to rent the 
premises  especially given its occupancy was seemingly limited to four people. 
I do appreciate that many other businesses in the area of Mrs Js premises would have been 
impacted. And that this, along with wider concerns about the pandemic, may have reduced 
peoples desire to stay in her premises. 
However, the key question is whether Mrs J suffered a loss during the July to August period 
as a result of her premises being required to close or restrictions having been placed on 
them. And I have not seen any evidence to persuade me that this is the case. It follows that I 
am not persuaded that RSA came to an unfair or unreasonable decision when declining this 
part of Mrs Js claims. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Mrs Js claim for the July to August 2020 period. I 
know this decision will be disappointing for Mrs J, but I hope Ive provided her with a 
thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman