DRN-4138876
The complaint
Mr A complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL), trading as American 
Express, were unreasonable in their handling of a claim he made to them under the 
chargeback scheme. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As distress here as the bathroom equipment he bought, and says he 
hasnt received, is worth quite a lot of money. Im required, however, to decide whether 
AESEL have been reasonable in the way theyve handled his chargeback claim and Im 
afraid I think they have. I know that will be really disappointing for Mr A, so Ill explain why 
Ive come to that decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a charge card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
AESEL didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them to do 
so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Ultimately, it would be the chargeback scheme administrators who decided which side to 
support in a chargeback claim. We don't have authority to challenge how they run their 
scheme, but I can consider whether AESEL were reasonable in not taking the chargeback to 
the next stage of arbitration when the merchant defended it.
AESEL raised a chargeback, but the merchant defended it and provided a delivery note they 
say was signed by Mr As wife, and a photograph of the pallet delivery at the delivery 
address that they had recorded: the same address we have for Mr A.
Mr A told them it wasnt his wifes signature, and he hadnt received the goods. He 
suggested the signature had been faked and he has told this Service that he doesnt think 
the delivery picture looks like it was taken outside his property.
Mr A may well have a claim he can make to the police if he feels the goods were stolen or 
the signature was faked. But, with the information AESEL had been provided I dont think 
they were unreasonable not to take the chargeback claim to arbitration (the next stage) as I 
dont think they had sufficient evidence to counter the merchants defence.
I dont therefore think AESEL have done anything wrong here.
There has been some discussion here about whether a claim could have been successful if 
AESEL had been asked to consider it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). But that only applies to certain types of credit, such as the credit supplied 
through a credit card. A charge card isnt regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and 
AESEL couldnt therefore consider a section 75 claim. And, even if Im wrong about that, I 
think its likely the result would have been the same, as I dont think AESEL would have had 
sufficient information to suggest a breach of contract had occurred.
It seems that Mr As best approach now is to raise this matter with the police or through the 
courts. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman