DRN-3335724
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) dealt with 
his attempts to recover money hed paid for a holiday booking that he was unable to take 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B booked an overseas villa with a third party, A. He paid using his M&S credit card. Mr B 
also booked flights separately with a different provider. Unfortunately, Mr Bs flights were 
caught by restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He contacted A as he realised 
he wouldnt be able to use the villa booking.
A refunded some of the money Mr B paid, which hes said was in line with its cancellation 
terms. But Mr B felt the circumstances were such that he ought to get a full refund. He 
turned to M&S to see if he could recover his money through the bank. M&S told Mr B it had 
considered whether he had a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). However, it concluded it had no liability to Mr B on the basis there was insufficient 
evidence of a breach of contract on As part.
Our investigator didnt think that M&S had taken an unreasonable stance. He noted A had 
been able and willing to provide the villa for the dates Mr B had booked, and that the reason 
it did not was because Mr B had cancelled the arrangements. Mr B had acknowledged the 
refund hed received was what he was due under the agreement. So the investigator didnt 
think there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation for which M&S was liable.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators assessment. He referenced guidance issued by the 
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) that he believes supports his claim that he 
should receive a full refund. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, so the 
matter has been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was understandably unhappy that he couldnt take his holiday. The circumstances of 
the pandemic were such that he couldnt travel to the villa. Its unclear whether the flight 
cancellation gives rise to a claim for consequential loss against the flight provider. That was 
a separate contract from the one Mr B had with A, and its not for me to comment on in the 
context of how M&S has handled a claim in relation to a different contract. Rather, Ive 
considered the circumstances in which M&S might be liable to refund Mr B (or otherwise 
compensate him) for the fact he couldnt use the villa.
Section 75
Section 75 of the CCA creates a mechanism by which Mr B might be able to pursue a claim 
against M&S for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by A. For there to be a valid claim 
under section 75, there needs to be a specific relationship between Mr B, A and M&S. Im 
satisfied the relevant section 75 relationship exists between the parties in this case. And the 
overall cash price of the booking meets the financial limits of section 75. None of this is 
disputed by the parties. The issue at hand is whether Mr B has a valid claim for breach of 
contract. Theres no suggestion here of any misrepresentation.
Ive thought about the CMA guidance to which Mr B has referred. That seems to suggest its 
possible the pandemic circumstances that led to him cancelling the contract with A might be 
construed as a frustration event. Where a contract is frustrated  that is, unforeseen 
circumstances have made it impossible to perform  the usual remedy is that the parties are 
released from their contractual obligations. In such circumstances A wouldnt be obliged to 
fulfil Mr Bs booking, and he should be restored to his original financial position by having his 
money back.
It doesnt automatically follow, however, that the contract between Mr B and A would be 
deemed to have been frustrated. The CMA guidance issued in August 2020 and referenced 
by Mr B appears to recognise this. It says as lockdown laws and the nature of the legal 
restrictions they impose change over time, the consequences for individual contracts may 
become less clear-cut and more fact-specific. Ultimately only a court can decide how the law 
applies With this in mind, I dont think its by any means certain that Mr B would be 
entitled to a full refund.
Further, because of the way section 75 operates, M&S wouldnt be liable to Mr B for a 
frustrated contract. A frustrated contract isnt one thats been breached. So although I 
understand Mr Bs argument, M&Ss response based on there being insufficient evidence of 
a breach of contract appears to me to be fair, in light of what actually happened.
Chargeback
Because Mr B paid by card, there are certain circumstances in which M&S might be able to 
recover his money through the chargeback process. Where applicable, the card issuer can 
raise a dispute with the supplier and ask for the payment to be returned to the customer. 
Although this wasnt the main point made by Mr B in his complaint, for completeness Ive 
thought about whether it affects the overall position.
Its generally good practice for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback where the right exists 
in the card scheme rules and theres some prospect of success. But that means the 
circumstances of a dispute affect whether it would be appropriate for M&S to raise a 
chargeback. Here, the reasons that might have been used for a chargeback were that the 
agreed services werent provided or that a credit that was due wasnt received (that is, a 
refund that was due wasnt paid).
But as I understand it, Mr B cancelled his booking  meaning that A was no longer expected 
to provide the villa  and received the refund he was due under the agreement. Given As 
stance towards Mr Bs request for a full refund, it seems likely that it would have provided a 
similar response if M&S had attempted to recover Mr Bs payment through chargeback. With 
this in mind, I cant properly conclude that M&S should have pursued a chargeback or that it 
has a responsibility to reimburse Mr B. It remains open to Mr B to seek recovery directly from 
A should he wish to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not persuaded M&S has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr B in dealing with his claim. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman