DRN-3505128
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service received from ReAssure Limited  formerly Legal & 
General  referred to as the business or ReAssure. 
Hes unhappy that ReAssure failed to pay the proceeds of a matured plan  previously held 
jointly with his (now) ex-wife. 
Hed like compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
What happened
On the face of the evidence it seems that in June 2019, ReAssure wrote to Mr F and his ex-
wife notifying them that the plan was about to mature. In due course, in July 2019, the plan 
matured. 
I understand that Mr F  as part of his divorce settlement  was due the proceeds, despite 
the plan being held in joint names, but didnt receive the money.   
In July 2019, the business wrote to Mr F and his ex-wife again, requesting the payment 
instruction form. ReAssure wrote to them again in August and September 2019. 
I understand that Mr Fs ex-wife was later written to, separately, on 31 October 2020 for her 
to fill out and sign the relevant forms. I note she eventually did so in 2021, but in her maiden 
name, which ReAssure was unable to verify and consequently wrote to her to verify her 
details. 
Im aware that Mr F provided a copy of the Consent Order issued by a District Judge in the 
County Court which made clear that The petitioner do assign to the Respondent all her legal 
beneficial intent in the Legal and General endowment plan.  However, ReAssure was 
unable to accept this document and requested a copy of the Deed of Assignment which Mr 
F didnt have.  
During this time, Mr F asked ReAssure numerous questions regarding the issue and sought 
updates regarding the payment but ReAssure failed to adequately deal with his 
correspondence. 
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated January 2021, ReAssure partially upheld the 
complaint. It apologised for the delays in responding to Mr F and failing to answer his 
specific questions and offered him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.    
In July 2021, ReAssure paid Mr F the proceeds in line with his wishes after it received the 
relevant documentation from his ex-wife, including change of name documentation in 26 
June 2021. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
ReAssure acted fairly by not paying Mr F the matured proceeds without the 
appropriate documentation. 
The Consent Order wasnt enough to enable ReAssure to pay Mr F the money. Its 
an order that only applied to Mr F and his ex-wife, not ReAssure.
In 2000, Mr F wouldve needed to contact the business in order to assign the plan in 
his sole name but didnt.
Theres been further communication since the FRL dated January 2021 that hes 
unable to comment upon. 
ReAssure notified Mr F that it needed the Deed of Assignment in order to pay him the 
money. Or it explained that it could draw up a statutory declaration in order to pay 
him half the proceeds, but Mr F didnt proceed.  
Its not clear why ReAssure only contacted Mr Fs ex-wife nearly a year after the plan 
matured and why it failed to answer his questions.  
In the circumstances, ReAssure should pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he made the following key points:
His solicitors bill is more than £1,500. 
The lost interest over the two years is around £1,000. 
The time spent dealing with this complaint amounts to £1,200. 
The impact on his mental health and wellbeing is priceless. 
Having to borrow money from friends and family is also priceless. He wouldnt need 
to do this if ReAssure had complied with its contractual obligation.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
ReAssure needed the Deed of Assignment, it wasnt an unreasonable request and it 
was for Mr F to provide. In the circumstances, its not responsible for the legal fees. 
Although Mr F spent a substantial amount of time trying to resolve the issues, and it 
had an impact on his health, the redress is still fair and reasonable. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following observations:
ReAssure made clear that because Mr F was divorced it would only deal with his ex-
wife directly and kept him out of the loop.
He only instructed a solicitor after two years of not being able to sort the issue out. 
He spent two years trying to sort this issue out, with hours spent on the phone and 
writing emails.  
Compensation is also due for the time spent as well as for the impact on his health. 
Hed like compensation in the region of £5,000.  
He wanted the investigator to allocate the £300 against the items hes asking 
compensation for. 
ReAssure also responded and disagreed with the investigators view. It said that it had 
written to Mr F and his ex-wife  using the address it had on file  notifying them that the 
plan was due to mature, and thereafter wrote to them on at least three occasions in 2019 
asking for their instructions. Therefore, it wasnt prepared to increase its offer of £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Because ReAssure partially upheld the complaint, the key issues for me to consider is 
whether (or not) ReAssure is responsible for the entire delay and whether the compensation 
offered is fair and reasonable.  
On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im unable to safely say that ReAssure 
behaved reasonably in the circumstances, however I dont think its responsible for the entire 
delay. In the circumstances I think it should pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused as suggested by the investigator. 
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Fs strength of
feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by him and ReAssure, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Given the history of this case, I think that all the salient points that could be made have
been made by both Mr F and ReAssure.  
Im aware that in June 2019 ReAssure wrote to Mr F and his ex-wife  using the address it 
had on file  notifying them that their joint plan was due to mature in a months time. 
I note that ReAssure wrote to them again in July 2019 (after the plan matured) and then in 
August 2019 and September 2019 asking them for their instructions but it didnt receive any 
and so the proceeds werent paid. 
Based on what the business says, it seems that Mr F contacted ReAssure on 14 October 
2020, about how to claim his matured funds. He was notified that it would need both parties 
signatures in order to pay the proceeds into his sole account. 
I think its likely that Mr F probably contacted the business before October. Ive seen 
correspondence between Mr F and Legal & General from June 2020. In any case, it seems 
Mr F probably waited a year before contacting the business about his matured funds, 
although its not clear why. 
In any case, prior to this contact (in 2020), I dont think ReAssure was made aware that Mr F 
had divorced some years ago and that he and his ex-wife were living separately. Thats why 
ReAssure didnt write to Mr Fs ex-wife (separately) at the outset and was expecting 
surrender instructions from them both. Despite the Consent Order from the County Court  and Im aware that under item 2 the 
plan was to be paid in its entirety to Mr F  a Deed of Assignment wasnt completed in 
relation to this plan. So, Mr F and his ex-wife still legally owned the plan on a joint basis, 
despite a change in their marital status. 
In other words, in the absence of a Deed of Assignment, ReAssure couldnt just pay Mr F the 
matured proceeds based on a Consent Order and proof that he was divorced. As far as 
ReAssure was concerned, his ex-wife still legally owned half of the plan, and therefore was 
still entitled to half the proceeds, unless she or a legal document confirmed otherwise. In the 
circumstances I cant blame ReAssure for wanting to do things properly in line with its 
security measures.  
The above notwithstanding, I cant blame ReAssure for Mr F not having a Deed of 
Assignment, because it wasnt a party to the legal proceedings and wasnt involved in 
advising Mr F at the time. Im mindful that Mr F was legally represented. 
In a letter to Mr F dated September 2000 his solicitor said I have forwarded a copy of this 
(the Consent Order) to your former wifes solicitors with a request for the Deed of 
Assignment in relation to the Legal & General policy. If Mr F didnt chase the matter up 
regarding the deed of assignment, its not something I can blame ReAssure for. 
It seems that on 31 October 2020 ReAssure wrote to Mr Fs ex-wife, in relation to the plan, 
presumably to her new address, although its not clear. Whilst Im satisfied that ReAssure 
attempted to contact Mr Fs ex-wife, I also note correspondence dated November 2020 in 
which it says that it was attempting to trace her. 
I note ReAssure subsequently wrote chaser letters to Mr Fs ex-wife, in 23 March 2021 (five 
months after the first letter) and 28 April 2021, asking her to fill out the necessary forms. I 
note that several calls were also made but were unsuccessful. ReAssure hasnt provided 
any further details about the calls. 
Whilst I cant blame ReAssure for Mr Fs ex-wife failing to engage or respond sooner, on 
balance I think ReAssure couldve taken a more proactive approach to resolving the issue 
and moving things along after it was made aware of Mr Fs situation and thats why I think its 
responsible for part of the delays. 
I dont accept that writing to Mr Fs ex-wifes previously known marital address  possibly in 
June, July, August, and September 2019  counts as attempts to try and contact her, after it 
was notified that that Mr F was divorced and she was living elsewhere.  
I also think ReAssure couldve also done more to engage with Mr F and manage his 
expectations in terms of what was going on. I think the situation was made substantially 
worse by ReAssure not acknowledging and/or responding to Mr F, compounding his distress 
and inconvenience.
Im aware that there was much correspondence between Mr F and ReAssure and its not 
necessary for me to list out the items and address each item individually. For example, Im 
mindful that Mr F called ReAssure numerous times but didnt receive a call back despite 
assurances that it would call him. Im also aware that letters/emails asking questions and 
seeking progress updates were effectively ignored.
Its for the reasons set out above, I think ReAssure should pay Mr F £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. In terms of legal fees, I note Mr F chose to instruct solicitors, as made clear in his 
correspondence. But in the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think a solicitor was 
necessary therefore I dont think ReAssure is responsible for paying the fees. I note the 
matter was only resolved after Mr Fs ex-wife provided all the necessary documentation 
including evidence of her change of name. 
I appreciate that Mr F was caused distress and inconvenience by the delay (I note it took 
nearly two years to get the matter sorted) but, for the reasons set out above I cant blame 
ReAssure for the entire delay. Im aware that this situation arose because there wasnt a 
Deed of Assignment and ReAssure wasnt aware of Mr Fs circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr F doesnt think £300 compensation is fair but, for the reasons explained 
above, I think its fair and reasonable. The compensation isnt a refund of his legal fees 
because I dont think hes entitled to these. It also isnt an hourly payment for the time spent 
on the telephone to the business or writing letters and emails. This is a figure to mark the 
broad distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr F, as a result of some of the delay and 
ReAssures poor service.  
Im mindful of what Mr F says about the financial difficulties he experienced and having to 
borrow money to pay his bills. But Im aware that ReAssure gave Mr F the option to receive 
half his money but its not an option he pursued. I note in a letter dated May 2021 Mr F was 
told: As discussed, you are able to seek solicitor advice in drawing up a Statutory 
Declaration to claim 50% of the value of the property. 
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im only going to ask ReAssure to pay £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give Mr F what he 
wants. 
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr F redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman