DRN-3189979
The complaint
 Miss J complains about two loans provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
L2G, which she says were unaffordable.
 
What happened
  L2G provided Miss J with two loans. Miss J asked for £700 on 6 November 2019 to be 
taken over 18 months. L2G agreed to this loan, but Miss J withdrew from the agreement 8 
days later. So as this was the case, and the loan was withdrawn, I have not looked into the 
lending decision here.
Miss J then asked for a loan for £500 on 12 January 2020. This loan had a term of 18 
months and Miss J would be contracted to repay £114.28 each month. If the loan ran to term 
she would pay back £2057.04. I have looked into the lending decision L2G made with this 
loan.
Miss J says L2G shouldnt have approved the loan as her credit file would have clearly 
showed she was highly reliant on credit and couldnt afford another loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 October 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that L2G asked Miss J about her income and expenditure when she applied for the 
loan in January 2020. It has told our service that it adjusted Miss Js income and expenditure 
based on an online verification tool for her income, and its own calculations using what it had 
in front of it for expenditure. This included it assessing credit search results that it conducted 
for Miss J. 
L2G reduced Miss Js declared income from £2350 a month to £1591.66 after verifying this. 
It then increased what Miss J says her expenditure was of £954, to £1242.28, based on 
checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for any 
fluctuations in spend for Miss J. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said about how it calculated Miss Js disposable 
income when it agreed to lend to her. I dont think its checks were proportionate because 
there was a discrepancy between what Miss J said about her expenditure and what it says it 
could see through its checks. I dont think L2G should have accepted the loan knowing or 
having reason to suspect Miss J wasnt being truthful about her expenditure. The 
discrepancy between what Miss J said her expenditure was and what L2G calculated it to 
be, was wide. So, I think L2G should either have carried out further checks to see if there 
were good reasons for this, or it shouldnt have provided Miss J with the loan. This leads me 
to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify what Miss Js actual monthly expenditure 
was. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Miss J with her loan were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Miss J 
would need to meet her loan repayments over 18 months.
Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks L2G carried out werent proportionate and that they needed to do 
more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks, because I dont think L2G made a fair lending decision when it lent to Miss J 
anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search results that L2G would have 
had in front of it, I can see that Miss J was already committed to quite a high 
proportion of credit repayment in relation to the income figure L2G was using in its 
assessment. This being the figure it had verified using an online verification tool.  
L2G would have been aware that Miss J would be paying £146 per month on a loan 
she took out in June 2019 and then £197 on another loan she took out in November 
2019. Miss J was then paying £86 a week from November 2019 on a home loan. So, 
with the addition of the repayment from this loan of £114.28, in total she would need to 
repay around £800 in credit repayments a month. This represented a large and 
significant part (more than 55%) of her disposable income. On top of this Miss J had a 
mail order account and an overdraft that the search results showed she was using. 
Miss J was paying such a significant proportion of her monthly income on credit 
repayments that L2G ought to have realised it was unlikely that she would be able to 
sustainably repay her loan over the three-year term. And, in these circumstances, L2G 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Miss J.
So, I conclude based on what L2G had in front of it, it would have seen Miss J wouldnt have 
been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Miss J has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what L2G did wrong.
So, I think L2G needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Miss J responded and had no further points to add. L2G 
responded on 22 October 2021 and raised some additional points. It said the checks it 
carried out were proportionate, that the loans were affordable based on its assessment 
and that the credit reports it looked at were on the whole positive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties have not made any new points for me to respond to. L2G said that it carried 
out proportionate checks and that Miss J could afford the loans. It also says her credit 
report was on the whole a positive one. But it hasnt responded to my findings in the 
provisional decision I issued or the reasons why I have upheld Miss Js complaint. So, as 
neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Miss Js complaint.  
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Miss J shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, L2G should:
add up the total amount of money Miss J received as a result of being given loan. 
The payments Miss J made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Miss J was given should be treated 
as overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Miss J to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Miss Js credit file because of the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Miss 
J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited now needs to put 
things right as I have described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman