DRN-3918215
The complaint
Ms K complains that her bank Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund the money 
she has lost following her falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Ms K was contacted via telephone by someone impersonating a Monzo 
representative. I will call this person A. A held personal information about Ms K and her 
card details. A explained that a third-party was attempting to make fraudulent transactions 
on Ms Ks account and to prevent this her funds needed to be moved to a safe account. A 
told Ms K to authorise transactions so that her money could be moved and kept safe which 
she did.
It turned out A was scamming Ms K and rather than her funds being sent to a safe account 
at Monzo they were sent to a cryptocurrency platform (crypto.com) where they were then 
lost to the scam.
Ms K says A had a lot of her personal information and the number A called her on was 
similar to that on the back of her debit card, A also didnt ask for her card details, so she felt 
comfortable that the call was from Monzo.
Ms K made the following 8 payments following instructions from A:
1. 9 October 2021 - £2,000
2. 9 October 2021 - £2,000
3. 9 October 2021 - £2,000
4. 9 October 2021 - £2,000
5. 9 October 2021 - £1,000
6. 9 October 2021 - £500
7. 9 October 2021 - £400
8. 9 October 2021 - £70
A total of £9,770 was lost to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Ms Ks complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought 
that consecutive large payments being made from Ms Ks account over a very short period 
was inconsistent with the way Ms K previously used her account, and that Monzo should 
have noticed this and stepped in.
Our Investigator thought that after two payments of £2,000 had left Ms Ks account within 
minutes of each other subsequent payments to the same place should have been queried by 
Monzo. If Monzo had stepped in and asked questions surrounding the transactions our 
Investigator said there was a fair chance any further loss would have been prevented.
Monzo disagreed it said it couldnt intervene every time a payment was made that was 
inconsistent with a customers usual spending and the payments Ms K made were within her 
spending limit. Monzo also said that stepping in would not necessarily have prevented 
further losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Ms K and Monzo set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Monzo should 
refund any of the money Ms K has lost because of this scam.
Ms K has accepted she authorised the payments that were made, albeit on As instruction. 
So, the starting point here is that Ms K is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
Eight payments were made from Ms Ks account totalling £9,970 the first three payments 
were made within minutes of each other and were each for £2,000. This activity was 
significantly different to the way Ms K usually managed her account. Having viewed Ms Ks 
bank statements I am unable to see that she had ever made payments to crypto.com before 
and had never made consecutive payments in the same day. It was also very rare that Ms K 
made payments of this size from her account in general 
It would be unreasonable to suggest that Monzo should intervene in every payment its 
customer makes. But I think 8 transactions being made from Ms Ks account in quick 
succession, totalling almost £10,000 should have been significant enough for Monzo to step 
in and ask questions about this change in behaviour.
I think Monzo should have intervened, at the latest when the third payment was attempted. 
By this time, it was clear that larger payments than usual were being made from Ms Ks 
account to a new payee in quick succession and this should have caused concern.
Had Monzo stepped in and asked Ms K questions about the payments I think it would have 
been clear that a representative for Monzo was not requesting the movement of funds from 
her account and Monzo would have been able to prevent any further losses.
With the above in mind, I think Monzo should refund Ms K for all payments that were made 
from her account as part of the scam following the first two payments of £2,000 each.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Ms K should share blame for what happened. A appears to have had Ms Ks personal details 
that she would fairly have expected Monzo to hold. A also didnt ask Ms K for any 
information she would normally associate with that needed to make payments in general. The circumstances described by A gave a sense of urgency for the payments to be made to 
prevent fraud on Ms Ks account. So, she also had limited opportunity to carry out her own 
due diligence.
With the above in mind, I dont think Ms K should share responsibility for the loss and no 
deduction from the compensation amount should be made.
Putting things right
After the first two payments of £2,000 were processed through Ms Ks account a further 
£5,970 was lost to the scam. I think this additional loss should have been avoided by Monzo 
recognising the irregular payments and stepping in.
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund Ms K the £5,970 she lost due to Monzo Bank Ltd not 
intervening when it should have. 
Monzo Bank Ltd should add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Ms K from the 
time Ms K made the payments to the time Monzo Bank Ltd provides the refund (less any 
lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to refund Ms K as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman