DRN-2272915
The complaint
Mr M complains Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) acted irresponsibly when they granted a 
loan to him.
What happened
Mr M was a long-standing customer of RBS and in January 2017 applied for a loan which 
was approved. Mr M says that despite the fact he had provided RBS with incorrect details 
regarding his employment status and income, it should have been aware from his account 
activity he was unable to afford the loan. Mr M says the details of his date of birth are also 
incorrect on the application for the loan and RBS have provided no support and simply 
transferred the debt to a debt collection agency. 
Mr M wishes RBS to write off the interest and charges on the loan account and remove the 
default markers on his credit file. 
RBS says they carried out reasonable checks before granting Mr M with the loan and they 
cant be held responsible if Mr M provided them with inaccurate information regarding his 
income and employment status. RBS says Mr M needs to speak to the debt collection 
agency appointed on their behalf to discuss a suitable payment plan. 
Mr M was unhappy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says it was up to Mr B to have provided true and accurate information about his 
employment and income position. He also felt that RBS had carried out sufficient checks to 
approve the loan. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand Mr M is going through a difficult time at present and it must be stressful for 
him having to deal with his current financial difficulties. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if RBS acted responsibly when approving 
the loan for Mr M and acted fairly since he encountered difficulties in making the loan 
repayments. 
What happened here was Mr M applied for a loan in January 2017 which was approved by 
RBS. Mr M has made a number of points regarding his application   firstly Mr M says he 
lied when he gave details regarding his current income and employment status. Mr M also 
says the application had incorrect details of his date of birth. Mr M also says RBS should 
have been aware of his income and employment status had they carried out proper checks 
before granting the loan. Finally, Mr M says he doesnt feel RBS have provided him with any 
help or support since they became aware of his financial difficulties. These are important 
points Mr M raises here and are central to his complaint. 
Let me say to begin with, I am satisfied the minor difference of the day of his birth has no 
bearing on whether the loan would have been granted or not here. What is important is Mr 
Ms view that RBS should have been aware of his true financial position even though, by his 
own admission, he hadnt been entirely truthful about his income or employment status when 
he applied for the loan. 
Mr M feels RBS should have been aware he couldnt afford the loan, but from the bank 
statements I have seen leading up to the loan application they do suggest a regular income 
to the account similar to the amount he quoted on his loan application. In addition to this 
RBS have provided confirmation the loan went through a full credit scoring process and was 
based on this, along with the information provided on his credit application. 
When considering if RBS had lent irresponsibly, I need to be satisfied they carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and while there are no defined criteria what these 
checks must consist of, I am satisfied that the bank statements and a full credit scoring 
process was appropriate here. Its also important to mention that there was nothing from the 
operation of the bank account that would lead to RBS taking the view Mr M was in financial 
difficulties. 
Its worth mentioning, part of the process here does rely on accurate information customers, 
like Mr M, provide when applying for credit. In this case Mr M has given incorrect information 
to RBS which may well have had a bearing on their decision to lend or not. I have to say it 
was Mr Ms responsibility to provide RBS with a truthful account of his income and 
employment status here and I cant hold RBS responsible for providing the loan in good faith 
based partly on this. 
Mr M says RBS havent provided him with any help or support after he found himself in 
financial difficulties. From the case notes I have seen there was regular dialogue with RBS 
after the loan payments were missed, in these discussions it indicates Mr M continued to 
confirm he was in employment, but it became clear his income didnt meet his outgoings. 
Subsequently, given Mr Ms true financial position being established, the debt was passed to 
a debt collection agency following the issue of letters of default by RBS and the interest 
charges being stopped. 
While Mr M may not agree, I am satisfied, given Mr Ms financial position, this was a 
reasonable course of action for RBS to take to seek a suitable payment arrangement. Mr M 
should now contact the debt collection agents to organise an appropriate payment plan.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
RBS. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman