DRN-3483988
The complaint
Ms C and Mr C complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
under their home insurance policy after a fire at their house.
What happened
Ms C and Mr C have a home insurance policy with Admiral which covers their contents and 
buildings amongst other things.
They made a claim in November 2019 after a fire in their cellar. The fire appears to have 
started electrically and took out the electrics in the house, as a result of which it was deemed 
uninhabitable.
Admiral accepted the claim and agreed to cover repairs to the house, replacement of 
damaged contents and alternative accommodation for Ms C and Mr C.
Ms C and Mr C werent happy with the way the claim was handled and made a complaint to 
Admiral. 
They said there had been avoidable delays in settling the claim, which were down to 
Admiral. Amongst these there were delays caused when Admiral priced the repair work too 
low and wouldnt accept surveys which suggested the price would be considerably higher.
They said Admiral had failed to find acceptable alternative accommodation, which meant 
they had to stay in a hotel. But they were threatened with eviction from the hotel by 
Admirals agents.
They said communications from Admiral and their agents, including the loss adjuster and the 
company tasked to find alternative accommodation, were poor, often delayed and 
misleading.
They said their policy was itself misleading and unclear after a dispute arose about whether 
they were underinsured for their homes contents.  
And they said Admiral had treated them unfairly, particularly given their age and health 
problems, and had damaged their reputation when they said one alternative accommodation 
wasnt available to Ms C and Mr C because theyd failed financial checks.
Admiral provided a final response to Ms C and Mr Cs complaints in October 2020. They 
paid Ms C and Mr C £400 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by poor 
communication and avoidable delays in the handling of the claim.
Ms C and Mr C werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. They 
want Admiral to pay their contents claim in full. And they want more compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience theyve suffered, particularly given their age and health problems. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. She felt the 
£400 compensation already paid to Ms C and Mr C by Admiral was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should say how sorry I was to hear about the fire at Ms C and Mr Cs home. It 
must have been an extremely upsetting and worrying time for Ms C and Mr C. And I can fully 
appreciate why they were very keen to have their claim sorted as soon as practically 
possible.
Admiral have admitted that there were delays which might have been avoided. And theyve 
admitted that communications with their agents were sometimes not at the standard they 
would like. Thats why theyve paid Mr C and Ms C £400 in compensation.
When I look at the timeline for the handling of the claim, I can see from the evidence we 
have that the contents claim was cash settled in around June 2020. The buildings element of 
the claim was also cash settled, at around the same time. Thats around seven months after 
the fire.
It's not reasonable to expect complex claims like this to be settled within weeks. The insurer 
is entitled to take a reasonable amount of time to assess the losses and damage - and to 
agree a way forward with their customer.
All cases are different, but if everything ran entirely smoothly, you might expect a claim like 
this to be settled within say three or four months, once surveys had been carried out and a 
scope of works for repairs agreed. 
Its fair to say that in this case, things did not run smoothly. Issues arose about the contents 
claim, with Admiral suggesting that Ms C and Mr C were underinsured (Ill come back to this 
later). And there were disagreements over the cost of the repairs to the house.
I should say at this point that Ms C and Mr C appointed a loss assessor to work on their 
behalf, as they were perfectly entitled to do. It also became clear that a cash settlement 
would be the best way to proceed, rather than have Admiral arrange the repair work.
This inevitably led to some quite prolonged discussion and negotiation about the cost of the 
repairs. Admiral originally costed the work at just over £30,000. They eventually settled at 
more than £50,000. Ms C and Mr C say this shows Admiral didnt act in good faith at first 
and costed the repairs at an unreasonably low level. 
I dont necessarily agree thats the case. Admiral or their agents will be able to source work 
from contractors at a cheaper level than a member of the public, simply because of their 
position in that market as a regular customer. The price of building materials also increased 
significantly during the relevant period.
Admiral did eventually settle the buildings part of the claim at over £50,000. Ms C and Mr C 
havent complained about that. It was settled within seven months or so of the fire. And that 
was after some difficult negotiations with the loss assessor working on Ms C and Mr Cs 
behalf.
At risk of over-simplification, Id put it this way  Ms C and Mr C quite reasonably wanted 
Admiral to settle the claim with a higher pay out. They employed a loss assessor to conduct 
negotiations on their behalf. If both sides in that negotiation are keen to achieve a settlement 
to their best advantage, it will inevitably take some time to reach a compromise.Admiral have admitted they caused some delays, including failing to have a forensic check 
carried out in a timely manner. But I can also see from the records we have that responses 
from the loss assessor to reasonable requests for information from Admiral were often 
considerably less than immediate.
In that context, I dont think £400 is unreasonable compensation for Ms C and Mr C for the 
delays and poor communications  and therefore additional stress  caused by Admiral. I 
have to bear in mind that whilst I can see that the whole experience has been horrendous for 
Ms C and Mr C, Admiral didnt cause the fire in their house. 
There was inevitably going to be a degree of distress and inconvenience for Ms C and Mr C. 
Admiral didnt cause it all. I can only ask them to compensate Ms C and Mr C for the 
additional trouble and upset their actions specifically caused. And I think the £400 theyve 
already paid isnt unfair and unreasonable compensation for that.
Turning now to the contents element of the claim, I can see Admiral settled the claim by 
making a payment of just over £18,000 to Ms C and Mr C. They say Ms C and Mr C 
appeared happy with that amount at the time it was offered. Mr C tells us he was left with no 
choice and asked to accept on a tight deadline.
Whether Ms C and Mr C appeared happy to accept the pay out at the time is irrelevant in 
terms of my decision. They are perfectly entitled to re-think their position when given more 
time. The key for me is whether the claim was settled fairly.
I dont think its disputed that Mr C told Admiral when he bought the policy that £25,000 
would be sufficient cover for all the contents of his and Ms Cs home. Theres a recording of 
the call in which thats quite clear. And thats the sum for which their contents were insured.
Admiral have also sent us documentation that was sent to Ms C and Mr C at each renewal. 
This advises the customer that they must let Admiral know if their circumstances have 
changed in any way, to ensure that they are adequately covered.
Mr C says the policy documents show an upper limit of £70,000 for contents. Thats the 
upper limit available to any customer under the particular type of policy Ms C and Mr C were 
being sold. The lesser sum they were actually insured for - £25,000  is set out clearly in the 
documentation. And, as I say, its what Mr C told Admiral his and Ms Cs contents were 
worth when he took the policy.
If Mr C had said his contents were worth more than that, they would have paid a higher 
premium. They paid a premium to provide £25,000 of cover for all the contents of the house.
After the fire, Ms C and Mr C made a contents claim for around £25,000. This was, they 
said, the coast of replacing the damaged items  mainly those destroyed by the fire in the 
cellar.
Clearly then, Ms C and Mr C were in fact underinsured for the contents of the whole of their 
house. They were insured for £25,000 in total. They claimed around that amount of the 
contents damaged in the cellar fire alone.
I have no doubt at all that this was an honest mistake on Mr Cs part when he was buying 
the insurance and/or when he renewed it. But its not unreasonable, in that context, for 
Admiral to say that Ms C and Mr C have been under-paying for their insurance and that 
theyll therefore settle the claim proportionally.
Mr C has said that he wasnt told when he bought the policy what the consequences of underinsurance might be. I wouldnt necessarily expect that to be made clear in the sales 
call. Mr C was asked a straightforward question about the value of his contents and he gave 
a straightforward answer. And the agent asked Mr C to confirm he was sure. It would be 
perhaps rather rude for the agent at that point to warn Mr C about the repercussions of him 
giving inaccurate information.
Id also ask Ms C and Mr C to look at the policy booklet sent to them when they bought the 
policy. At page 19, in a section about how claims will be settled, this says:
If you fail to notify us of corrections or changes to the details on your policy 
documents, we may decide to proportionally reduce the claims settlement or even 
refuse to pay you at all. If you have paid only 75% of what your premium should 
have been, we will pay no more than 75% of your claim.
In summary, I dont think Admiral have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Ms C and Mr C in the way theyve settled the contents element of the claim. And I dont think 
Ms C and Mr C are justified in suggesting that their policy was unclear or that theyd never 
been told about the consequences of underinsuring their contents.
Ill turn now to the complaints about the alternative accommodation provided for Ms C and 
Mr C.
Under the terms of the policy, Ms C and Mr C were entitled to suitable alternative 
accommodation for a period of time whilst repairs were scoped and carried out, if their home 
was uninhabitable  which it was.
Ms C and Mr C moved temporarily to a hotel, whilst Admirals agents sought a short-term let 
for a suitable property. One suitable property was effectively lost to another prospective 
renter. 
Theres some dispute about how that happened. Admiral seem to have suggested Ms C and 
Mr C failed some kind of financial check  which the letting agency subsequently denied. 
Ms C and Mr C say that Admirals loss adjuster unnecessarily delayed getting approval for 
six months rent to be paid in advance  which is what the letting agent required.
It seems the agent would only do business on the basis of six months payment in advance. 
Thats likely because they were concerned about continued payment if the insurer decided to 
cease making alternative accommodation payments. 
It wasnt unreasonable for the loss adjuster to seek approval of that expenditure. And in the 
meantime, the property was taken by someone else. I cant justifiably blame Admiral for the 
fact that they might be less agile or speedy when seeking to take out rental agreements 
then a private renter.
Several further properties were offered to Ms C and Mr C. All of which were in some way 
unsuitable or were, in Mr Cs own words dumps, in bad areas.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to assume that their agents were doing the best 
they could to find suitable accommodation for Ms C and Mr C. And after all, they were 
paying out more for the hotel and so had a financial interest in getting Ms C and Mr C into 
alternative accommodation as soon as possible.
And it wasnt unreasonable to then offer a cash settlement so that Ms C and Mr C could 
seek their own alternative accommodation. This happened reasonably soon after it became 
apparent that the agent wasnt going to be able to find suitable alternative accommodation.I can also see that Ms C and Mr C were paid a disturbance allowance  amounting to 
several thousand pounds  during the time they were in the hotel.
Taking all of that into account, I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably or unfairly towards 
Ms C and Mr C in the way they provided alternative accommodation under the terms of the 
policy. 
It appears that at some point, the hotel questioned whether Ms C and Mr C should be there, 
given the national COVID lockdown and the fact they were providing accommodation only 
for key workers at that time. Ms C and Mr C took the warning that they might be moved out 
of the hotel as a threat that they needed to agree other alternative accommodation.
Its possible this was communicated badly to Ms C and Mr C. But Im satisfied the £400 
compensation offered to Ms C and Mr C for poor communications and delays is sufficient to 
cover this particular incident as well as the other occasions when Admirals  or their agents 
 communications fell below the standard theyd expect.
In summary, I agree with Ms C and Mr C that they were at times treated unreasonably or 
unfairly by Admiral, who on occasion failed to communicate with Ms C and Mr C in a clear 
and timely manner. 
But Im satisfied that the compensation paid to them by Admiral was sufficient given the 
degree of additional distress and inconvenience they were caused by Admirals  or their 
agents  actions, over and above the inevitable trouble and upset caused to them by the 
very fact of the fire and the damage to their house.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms C and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman