DRN-3987132
The complaint
Ms Os complaint is about a legal expenses insurance policy that was sold to her by Co-op 
Insurance Services Limited.
Ms O feels the policy would never have covered her in an employment claim because of her 
employment status, so has been mis-sold.
In this complaint Ms O is represented by two representatives but for ease of reading I shall 
refer to all submissions being made as her own, except where I consider it necessary to 
address them separately. 
What happened
In 2017 Ms O bought a legal expenses insurance policy from Co-op Insurance Services 
Limited together with her home insurance policy.
The policy was initially sold by telephone on a non-advised basis and then renewed 
annually. 
In 2021 Ms O made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. The insurer of that 
policy declined to cover her claim because the advice it received from its panel Solicitor was 
it didnt have reasonable prospects of success and wasnt in any event covered. That was 
because she didnt have a contract of employment with the party she wanted to bring a claim 
against and this was a requirement of cover for employment disputes. A Barrister 
subsequently instructed by the insurer also concluded Ms Os claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success and was disproportionate to pursue. 
Ms O feels that Co-op Insurance Services Limited didnt make clear the policy they sold her 
would never have covered her for employment disputes and as such that it was mis-sold. 
Co-op Insurance Services Limited doesnt agree. They say it was up to Ms O to satisfy 
herself that the cover she was sold met her particular needs. 
Our investigator considered Ms Os complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that the requirement for policyholders to have a contract of employment in order to be 
able to claim on the employment section of the policy wasnt significant or unusual and so 
Co-op Insurance Services Limited didnt need to draw it to her attention. The investigator 
also said that even if Ms Os attention had been drawn to this particular term, there was 
nothing to suggest she would have done something differently and sourced an alternative 
legal expenses insurance policy at the time. She said this was because it was unlikely she 
would have found a policy that covered her specific circumstances. The investigator made a 
number of other findings too which I havent set out here but are known to both parties. Ms O 
doesnt agree with those findings. In summary, she says:
She wasnt given proper advice about what the policy covered before taking it and the 
onus was on Co-Op Insurance Services Limited to ensure it was suitable for her.
If the relevant term was pointed out to her, she would have sought alternative cover 
elsewhere.
When she initially took out the policy, Ms O told Co-Op Insurance Services Limited she 
was unemployed, but later contacted them to explain the role she had. At that point Co-
Op Insurance Services Limited should have ensured the legal expenses insurance policy 
would cover her for any claims that arose out of this role.
She didnt know she would have a need for employment cover when she took out the 
policy. Co-Op Insurance Services should have made sure she was covered for this if the 
need arose.
She didnt only want the insurance she took out to benefit her for contents and buildings 
cover- she also wanted the legal expenses insurance policy she took out with it to cover 
her.
Its unacceptable for insurers to pick and choose which claims they want to pay out on 
and for the Ombudsman to defend this. She paid for cover and taken at face value, she 
should expect to be covered when making a legitimate claim as she did.
She cant be expected as a lay person to understand the policy documents and work out 
if they would cover her for every eventuality.
The legal expenses insurance cover appears to have been included to make the home 
insurance package look more desirable but that policy is not fit for purpose so insurers 
shouldnt be entitled to charge for it.
The selling of legal expenses insurance policies in this way is a big scandal on par with 
Payment Protection Insurance complaints and she is addressing this with the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
The investigators reference to the legal expenses insurance policy being an incidental 
add on to the home insurance policy suggests it is of less importance to policyholders, 
but this makes no sense. The only way family legal protection can be obtained is as an 
add on and not on a standalone basis so policyholders cant shop around. That means 
they cant obtain more competitive policies through comparison websites. As no good 
information is given to consumers before they take out cover, its not possible for them to 
know whether theyve taken out a good or bad policy until theyve made a claim, which 
can be many years later.
Legal expenses insurance policies are supposed to pay for legal costs to bring legal 
action for compensation if a person loses their job in unfair circumstances. The hurdles a 
policyholder must go through to obtain this are impossible to meet so the cover is of no 
benefit.
Co-op Insurance Services Limited sold Ms O a policy knowing she could never claim on 
it because she was self-employed.
The deciding Ombudsman should comment on the wider concerns Ms Os 
representatives have about legal expenses insurance and the widespread mis selling of 
it more generally. 
The Ombudsman has a statutory duty to make a decision that is fair and reasonable and 
that should extend to the mis-sale of legal expenses insurance more generally. Failing to 
do so could give rise to a judicial review of its decision.
The Financial Conduct Authority is waiting for a copy of this decision before they or Ms 
Os representatives can take appropriate action in relation to the mis-selling of legal 
expenses insurance policies more generally.
She clearly informed Co-op Insurance Services Limited of her role and Co-op Insurance 
Services Limited still agreed in writing to accept the risk and take payments for the 
insurance from her. For her to now be prevented from claiming for employment disputes 
is nonsense given Co-op Insurance Services Limiteds acceptance of putting her on risk 
of cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Os complaint. Ill explain why. 
The starting point is to consider how the policy was sold and what Co-op Insurance Services 
Limiteds obligations were in respect of that sale. I understand the policy was initially sold 
over the phone and then renewed annually. Co-op Insurance Services Limited have told us it 
was sold on a non-advised basis. That means that when selling the insurance, they needed 
to give Ms O enough information to allow her to decide whether to take it out and consider 
whether it was suitable for her needs. So, whilst I appreciate the various submissions Ms O 
has made about Co-op Insurance Services Limiteds obligation to ensure the policy was 
suitable for her needs, their obligation didnt extend to that because of the way in which the 
policy was sold- namely on a non-advised basis. Had advice been provided about the policy, 
then Co-op Insurance Services Limiteds duty would have been to ensure it was suitable for 
her needs, but in this case that doesnt apply.
Due to the passage of time, Co-op Insurance Services Limited havent been able to supply 
me with a copy of a call recording of the initial sale of the policy in 2017 but I have seen a 
copy of the script Co-op Insurance Services Limiteds agent most likely used when selling 
the policy at the time. I can see that Ms O was advised to read the policy documents to 
ensure the cover was right for her. There is however no reference to the specific policy terms 
relating to employment disputes. But in itself that doesnt mean that Co-op Insurance 
Services Limited did something wrong when selling this policy. 
We would expect the seller of a policy to draw attention to significant or unusual terms when 
selling insurance. In this case I dont think the term in question falls into either of those 
categories. The term that Ms Os insurer used to turn down her claim, in addition to it failing 
to fulfil the requirement for prospects of success and proportionality was:
What IS insured
3. Employment
We will cover Legal Costs for pursuing a claim arising from a dispute with Your employer 
under Your contract of employment.
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to cover employment disputes for those 
that are employed. A contract of employment is usually commonplace in those 
circumstances. So, I dont think the term itself is particularly out of the ordinary. I know that 
for Ms O however, the term itself would have been significant given the role she took which 
she later brought a claim to establish she was an employee. But that doesnt mean that the 
term is objectively significant- and thats what it needs to be for me to expect Co-op 
Insurance Services Limited to have drawn her attention to it. I also dont think the term is 
objectively onerous given a great number of employed policyholders are likely to have some 
sort of contract of employment. And I dont think I find it to be generally prohibitive in some 
way that means that attention should be drawn to it.
Ms O argues that Co-op Insurance Services Limited had a responsibility to bring this term to 
her attention given she told them of her role. I dont agree. As Ive said, Co-op Insurance 
Services Limited sold this policy on a non-advised basis so it was up to her to satisfy herself 
that the cover she was being sold was suitable for her own needs. But even if that werent 
the case, I dont think Ms O simply telling Co-op Insurance Services Limited her role 
wouldve necessarily prompted them to check the cover to ensure she could claim for 
employment claims when the status of her role isnt established as a form of employment in 
law currently. Rather, the claim shes seeking to make is intended to establish that. So, I 
dont think that Co-op Insurance Services Limiteds knowledge of her role at any point meant 
they should reasonably have drawn Ms Os attention to this term.When reaching my findings, Im mindful that I dont know what information Ms O was 
presented with each and every year policy year at renewal, but I dont think that matters. 
Thats because Id need to be persuaded that Ms O would have done something differently 
had she known about the term in question. I dont think she would have. 
Much has been made of the fact that Ms O didnt know she had a claim against the other 
party shes currently litigating against when she took the policy out and subsequently 
renewed it.  Ms Os role wasnt that of an ordinary employee nor did she have a contract of 
employment. Given this, I find it hard to see why she would have been interested in taking 
out employment cover unless she foresaw a dispute of this nature materialising. If she had, 
then any claim she might have made wouldnt have been covered in any event because she 
wouldve been taking out cover for a pre-existing dispute and policies like this specifically 
exclude those circumstances. Ms O is very clear that she didnt know shed be bringing a 
claim against the other party either in 2017 or at subsequent renewals, so Im not sure that 
drawing this term to her attention wouldve meant much to her and led to her declining to 
take the policy out at all. And like the investigator said, when she did initially take out cover 
in 2017, she stated she was unemployed, so I cant see why it wouldve been important for 
her to take out employment cover at all at that point. 
But even if Ms O had wanted cover for the sort of claim she wanted to make for reasons that 
are unclear to me and  she wasnt aware that shed need to make a claim of this nature, I 
doubt that having the term drawn to her attention wouldve meant she would have done 
something else- like buying insurance elsewhere. I say so because most legal expenses 
insurance policies are comparable on cover for claims like the one Ms O is making. So I 
dont think its likely she wouldve found before the event cover elsewhere for a claim like 
this. 
Ms O has talked about it being difficult to buy legal expenses insurance policies separately 
or to compare them against one and other on comparison websites. I think that supports my 
findings here. Even if she wanted cover elsewhere, it might have been difficult for her to 
source it by a simple comparison search if thats the method she was reliant on for sourcing 
this type of policy. There are other methods of purchasing these types of policies- such as 
through a private broker, but it doesnt sound like this was a method Ms O wouldve used 
given her submissions.
In response to the investigators view Ms O has said that the fact that the policy was an add 
on to her home insurance shouldnt mean she shouldnt benefit from the legal expenses 
insurance cover. I agree with that sentiment, but I dont think it means that cover needs to 
extend to every eventuality that might occur. Likewise, there may be some claims she might 
need to make on her home insurance policy that wouldnt engage because they depend on 
the terms and conditions of those policies being met in order for cover to engage. In this 
case there are three terms that mean Ms Os employment claim isnt covered- the one 
relating to pursing disputes with a policyholders employer, a requirement for there to be 
prospects of success and a requirement that the claim is proportionate to pursue. That 
doesnt mean the cover Ms O was sold was of no value; it just means her claim doesnt fit 
into the requirements of the policy. She could just as easily benefit from the other sections of 
the policy for other claims if they arise in the same way she could benefit from her home 
insurance policy. The purpose of those policies is to cover claims that may or may not 
happen and that Ms O wasnt aware of when she took them out so they may well be of 
benefit going forward. 
I know Ms O wants me to comment on what she perceives to be the mis-selling of legal 
expenses insurance policies more widely in this decision but thats not something Im able to 
address. Im only able to consider Ms Os complaint, as brought to this Service about the specific policy she was sold, in the circumstances that apply to that sale. And thats what Ive 
confined my decision to. Ms O and her representatives should note that each complaint 
turns on its own facts and this Service isnt empowered to address general issues of 
dissatisfaction across the insurance market. Thats a matter for the Financial Conduct 
Authority and one that is better considered by them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint against Co-op Insurance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman