DRN-3523213
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) 
from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding 
their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M approached DCF in July 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
also concerned about the situation with the DB scheme. He thought that it was funded 
poorly, and he had little confidence in it. And the penalty for early retirement was too hight at 
30%. 
DCF completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
In summary this showed that:
Mr M was aged 45 and married, he and his wife had no dependents.
Mr M was employed by Tata Steel earning £41,000 per year. Mrs M was also 
employed and earing £20,000 per year
Mr and Mrs M owned their own home outright. 
They had approximately £100,000 in cash, and cash based investments. 
Mr & Mrs M had life insurance with a sum assured of £60,000 and Mr M also had life 
cover of four times his salary from his employers new pension scheme.
In respect of his pensions, Mr M had his deferred membership in the BSPS and hed also 
recently joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. The fact find says that 
both him and his employer were contributing a total of 20% of his salary into this each 
month.
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said in the suitability 
report was moderate. 
On 8 August 2017, DCF advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds across a range of funds. Mr M transferred £379,748.50 into 
the personal pension plan. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr M wanted to retire at age 55 and the transfer would enable this. He wanted to 
avoid the penalties that the BSPS scheme had for early retirement. 
Mr M was uncertain about the future of the scheme and he wanted control of his 
pension. He didnt want his pension to end up in the PPF.
Mr M wanted to improve on the death benefits the BSPS offered. He wanted to leave 
his fund to his dependents.
Mr M signed a document to confirm that he understood the risks of the transfer. And a 
summary document was provided to him that outlined the pros and cons of the transfer and 
staying with the BSPS.
Mr M complained in 2021 to DCF about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
thought the advice was flawed and it was likely to have led to him suffering significant 
financial losses.
DCF didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it considered his circumstances in full and it 
gave clear and suitable advice which included a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). It 
ensured that Mr M was aware of, and comfortable with, the risks of the DB transfer.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended DCF pay compensation. He didnt think that the advice was suitable for Mr M 
as it wasnt clearly demonstrated that his circumstances were fully considered, or why the 
transfer would be in his best interests and meet his aims. He would likely lose out financially 
due to the advice and there werent any good reasons given to outweigh this. His options, in 
particular regarding the BSPS2 scheme, werent fully considered or documented. He thought 
Mr M should have been advised to stay in his DB scheme and, ultimately, he would have 
opted to join the BSPS2. 
DCF disagreed, saying:
It could not have advised Mr M to join the BSPS2. This was because it didnt exist at 
the time and it wasnt certain that it would in the future. It wasnt created until 31 
January 2018.
The most likely outcome at the time of advice was that Mr M would need to join the 
PPF. Mr M didnt want this, he wanted to control his pension benefits. 
The industry regulator has reviewed some of its pension transfer advice cases and it 
didnt find any problems. It has kept pace with regulatory developments and ensured 
that the advice it gave was reasonable. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service shouldnt rely just on critical yields to determine if 
the advice was suitable. These should not have been the focal point of the advice. Mr 
M was not looking to purchase an annuity. 
He wanted to use his funds flexibly, for example, he wanted to spend less when his 
state pension became payable. Discount rates also shouldnt be the focal point of the advice. That said, overall, the 
performance needed may have been achievable. His funds have performed well and 
should continue to do so. 
Mr M was informed that his pension was subject to investment growth, and he 
agreed with this. 
Mr M was fully informed about all aspects of the advice at the time of sale. DCF 
advised Mr M that the critical yields were unlikely to be achieved.
He would have proceeded in any event due to his concerns with the BSPS scheme. 
And in respect of any loss suffered DCF feels that that this should be considered 
against the PPF rather than BSPS2 as this scheme didnt exist at the time of advice. 
Mr M, via his representative, also responded and broadly agreed. He said that he didnt think 
his attitude to risk was as high as medium as he didnt hold any investments at the time of 
sale. He didnt need to access a lump sum and he wasnt set on retiring at age 55. He says 
the critical yield wasnt discussed and his single biggest driver was not wanting to be worse 
off in retirement. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr M through the PPF. It is of course 
possible that the BSPS2 may not have gone ahead, and there was no certainty at the time of 
advice about this. 
But I think the situation surrounding the DB scheme and the BSPS2 seems to have been 
largely ignored in the advice process. This is wrong, given the importance of the events 
within the scheme. And even if the full details of the BSPS2 werent known at the time of 
advice DCF would have been aware that it was likely to be set up and have had some idea 
of what it would have provided. And this should have been factored into the advice so that 
Mr M was able to make an informed decision. 
In August 2017 DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the 
regulator) showing how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Just to reiterate this was based on his existing scheme benefits and the PPF. Mr M didnt 
have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move 
with the scheme to the PPF. 
The critical yield applicable to the BSPS2 benefits wasnt calculated. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat in 
comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, 
particularly at age 65.
That said I think its reasonable to say that the information it provided shows that the transfer 
wasnt in Mr Ms best interests from a financial viability perspective anyway, even without 
further information about the BSPS2. Ill explain why. 
Mr M was 45 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 55. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ms benefits at age 65 was 6.31% if he took a full pension. The critical yield to 
match Mr Ms benefits at age 55 was 9.46%, again based on a full pension. 
Mr M has said that he didnt want a lump sum from his pension as he had adequate savings, 
and he was building up a fund in his employers DC scheme. So, it was reasonable here not 
to show critical yields where tax free cash was taken. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
4.16% per year if Mr M took a full pension and 3.78% per year if he took tax free cash and a 
reduced pension. Its reasonable to assume that the critical yields at age 55 would be much 
higher. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given 
The discount rates in this case were and was 4.5% per year to Mr Ms age 65 and 3.8% per 
year to his age 55. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
Mr M has said his attitude to risk may not have been as high as moderate. But he would be 
investing a significant amount over a reasonable length of time. And he did have some other 
assets, and so had some capacity for loss. I can accept that Mr M may have been at the 
lower end of this risk categorisation, but I think its reasonable for DCF to have said that Mr 
M could take some risk with his pension. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think DCF 
incorrectly assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr M 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But the lowest critical yield here was 3.78% 
and this was on the basis that Mr M retired very early and took tax free cash from the PPF. 
Mr M has said that he didnt want to take any tax free cash, or to go to the PPF. 
The critical yields that match his needs are far higher than this. And the figure that most 
closely aligns with his recorded aims, albeit from the BSPS, is 9.46% above. This is far 
higher than the discount rate and is above the industry regulators upper projection rate. 
So, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the 
DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would 
be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF and he didnt take tax free cash.
DCF has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr M wouldve been able to meet his 
needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but DCFs models show that, 
assuming a medium rate of return, and Mr M taking the same benefits as the BSPS scheme, 
that his fund would run out at his age 93. So, if there was a period of poor returns or Mr M 
lived a long life, his fund was at risk of running out before he died.
Also, as DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
And DCF also provided an estimate of the fund values he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DC scheme. At age 65 this was £937,145.50 and at age 55 
it was £769,896.87. These were far higher than the transfer value, and what its reasonable 
to assume his fund would grow to. So, they give a revealing insight into the value of the 
benefits Mr M gave up when he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
And it was recognised at the time of sale that Mr M would be very unlikely to equal or better 
the BSPS pension. The suitability letter said the critical yield required is high and it would be 
very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving 
up.
DCF says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ms attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
DCF also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth 
required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the 
benefits provided by the DB scheme. DCF says Mr M didnt want an annuity, it said he 
wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required DCF to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant 
consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr M could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another ten years. Its entirely possible that Mr M would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme). And hes essentially said that this is what he did want. 
DCF has said that the fund has at times performed well, which I dont disagree with. But 
even though the fund has performed well it hasnt really performed at the levels needed to 
replicate the benefits Mr M gave up, for example its not provided the 9.46% a year it would 
need to match the DB pension benefits at age 55.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as DCF has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
DCF says that Mr M wanted to take his pension benefits flexibly at retirement. In considering 
this I think its reasonable to firstly say there was very little detail recorded about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of sale. And there was very little analysis, or information about, his 
retirement wants or needs. 
If DCF had taken a more detailed look at Mr Ms retirement circumstances it could have 
provided robust planning as to how they could meet his aims or challenged them if his aims 
werent realistic or achievable. For example, I dont think its reasonable to say that DCF 
seriously looked into, or challenged, Mr Ms objective of early retirement and questioned how 
realistic that was for him. So, I dont think it met its obligations to determine his objectives in 
the light of what he would be giving up. Given the amount of information recorded, its 
difficult to see how DCF could have properly advised Mr M. 
That said it seems the main reason that DCF recommended this transfer was for the 
flexibility and control it offered Mr M. The point of sale documentation shows that Mr M 
wanted to retire at age 55, if possible, but he anticipated his income needs falling from state 
pension age. So, varying his income could be useful. In contrast Mr M has recently said he 
wanted to retire as early as possible, but maximising his income was a priority rather than 
retirement at a certain time.  
It's evident that Mr M could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in this way. Although he 
could choose to take tax free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr M had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr M had any concrete need to take tax free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. And, as above, 
it seems Mr M was willing to retire when the time was right rather than having a set age. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs M wanted their income in retirement is to be around 
£36,000 per year. But there isnt any information about how this figure was arrived at. It 
looks like it was based on Mr and Mrs Ms current net income. This can be a useful starting 
point, but the fact find recorded that their current expenditure was £1,500 per month and 
they were saving the rest each. Its not clear why they would need to replicate a situation 
where they would save this amount in retirement. And Mr and Mrs M didnt have any children 
and their house was fully owned. Its hard to see why any planning should be based on this 
seemingly arbitrary, and probably incorrect, amount. 
That said, it was noted that the DB scheme would provide around £25,000 at Mr Ms age 65 
(based on the BSPS). And Mr M would also receive his state pension of around £9,000. He 
would also have his DC scheme benefits, plus his savings, which could be used either to 
provide an income or more flexibly. So, its evident that Mr M would have enough to meet his 
income aims at 65. 
But Mr M had expressed a preference to retire earlier than this. I need to look at whether the 
advice was reasonable when this is considered. The TVAS showed that, at age 55, Mr M 
would receive a pension of around £13,500 from the BSPS. On the face of it this income was 
less than he said he needed. DFC have essentially said that the personal pension was a 
way for Mr M to retire early despite this. As he could use the fund flexibly and take, for 
example, a greater income at the start and then reduce this when his other provisions and 
state pension became payable. 
But this doesnt give the full picture here. He was a member of his new employers DC 
scheme and he and his employer were contributing 20% of his salary each month into this, 
and he was looking to increase this. If he remained in this over the next ten years, and his 
salary remained the same, both him and his employer would have contributed over £100,000 
into to it. And this would likely be increased by some investment performance. 
Mrs M had a DB scheme entitlement herself. And she was around six years older than Mr M 
it may have been that she could retire fully from her work when Mr M was aged 55, her 
normal scheme retirement date was recorded as 60. Its not clear exactly what benefits this 
would provide, and I think this is a significant failing on DCFs part as it couldnt have 
advised Mr M on his income needs in retirement without knowing this. But given her income, 
and the length of time she had been in it, it was likely to be significant.
And Mr and Mrs M already had savings of over £100,000. And they were also saving £1,500 
a month which again, over ten years, would be £180,000  plus any interest or investment 
returns. Overall, its likely they would have significant resources that could be used flexibly 
from Mr Ms age 55 onwards.
I think the right advice here would be for Mr M to remain in his DB scheme and anticipate 
that his would form a core guaranteed income. And Mr and Mrs M could continue to build up 
funds and other provision elsewhere to enable them to be flexible about their retirement 
when they had a better idea what they wanted to do. As our Investigator outlined, its entirely 
possible that Mr and Mrs M could have saved up enough to enable them to make up any 
income shortfall their pension arrangements would leave them with at early retirement. 
I dont think advising them to transfer their DB scheme increased Mr Ms flexibility, due to the 
lower income provided, I think it decreased it. DCF persistently referred to the DB scheme providing a lower income at retirement if Mr M 
retired early. It described this as a penalty. But I dont think this is fair or balanced. Whilst 
the initial income from the DB scheme would be lower at early retirement this is to reflect the 
longer term that it would be in payment. It doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M will receive 
less overall, and it isnt a penalty. And I think describing it in this way meant it wasnt 
providing Mr M with information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
DCF has said that once Mr Ms state pension became payable he would want to reduce the 
amount of income he took. And he wouldnt have been able to do this if he took benefits in 
the DB scheme, and he would probably have too much income. 
Even if Mr M didnt need all of the income Mr Ms DB scheme provided once their state, and 
other pensions, became payable this isnt a good reason to transfer in itself. This income 
could have been an important foundation for their retirement, providing a guaranteed amount 
that wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ms main expenses, income received above this couldve 
allowed them to enjoy their retirement fully. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the PPF or the BSPS2. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt really 
need. And if Mr M found that his circumstances changed and he did in fact need flexibility, if 
hed opted to go into the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out closer to his 
actual retirement age. So, ultimately, I think any need for flexibility couldve been addressed 
nearer to his retirement.
Death benefits
One of Mr Ms objectives was to have lump sum death benefits. Again, there was no real 
detail around this, and Mr M has recently said it wasnt really an objective. As Ive outlined 
above, Mr and Mrs M already had significant savings and Mrs M had her own pension 
provision. So, Im not persuaded this was anything more than a generic nice to have. 
That said death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what 
extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think DCF made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the 
cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum particularly if Mr M lived a 
long life.  In any event, DCF should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. That said he already seems to have had life insurance and death in service benefits, so its not clear why he would need more than he 
already had. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made some announcements about its plans for the scheme and 
he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the 
PPF and its recorded that he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFs obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCF shouldve 
reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr M through the PPF wouldve still provided enough to meet his 
recorded aims. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to DCF recommending Mr M transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
I also think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge 
to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a 
genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
DB scheme.
It seems to me that Mr Ms stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ms employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not the same. And in any event, Mr M was not intending to leave his employment and 
his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had DCF explained that Mr Ms belief 
regarding the control Mr Ms employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he 
would have been reassured by this.
Would Mr M have joined the BSPS2 going forward
My decision is that Mr M should have been advised to stay in the DB scheme. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it was clear to 
all parties that it was likely to be going ahead.  As Ive outlined above, Mr M would need to 
choose whether to move to the PPF, or go to the BSPS2, in the near future. 
I don't think that it would've been in Mr Ms interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. Even though Mr M did want to retire early, Im 
not persuaded that he would have needed to take the benefits from his DB scheme if he did this. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, Mr M was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr M chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So I think if DCF had advised Mr M to stay in the BSPS scheme he would have opted in the 
future to join the BSPS2. And so, this is what compensation should be based on. 
Suitability of investments
DCF recommended that Mr M invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in 
these funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But DCF 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 or the PPF. By transferring to 
a personal pension Mr M was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at either 
age 55 or 65. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify 
the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the 
BSPS2 in the future.
So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF argues that this is the case saying that Mr M would still have gone ahead with 
the transfer as it met his needs and he was concerned about his benefits moving to the PPF. 
DCF says that regardless of the advice given, Mr M made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against DCFs advice. Mr M seemed to be a relatively 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of his non state 
retirement provision at the time. So, if DCF had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his employer and moving to the PPF were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. And if DCF had explained Mr M was unlikely to exceed the benefits available 
to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight.
I accept that DCF disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr M and provided him with a 
reasonable amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr M to 
transfer out, and I think Mr M relied on that advice.
In light of the above, I think DCF should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that DCF also pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for DCFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme and then joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice 
had been given. So, compensation should be based on the BSPS2. 
DCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
DCF may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date DCF receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCF to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
DCF should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman