The complaint
 Miss D has complained that her packaged bank account was not downgraded in 2015.
What happened
 In 2015 Miss D raised a complaint about her packaged bank account as she believes it was 
mis-sold. RBS upheld this complaint and refunded the monthly account fees that she paid for 
this account. Recently Miss D discovered that her account had not been downgraded and 
therefore she had been paying monthly account fees from 2015 onwards. She believes that 
RBS should have downgraded her account when RBS upheld her mis-sale complaint and 
therefore she would like RBS to refund the accounts fees that she paid after this point.
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already. They did not think that RBS 
did anything wrong as the final response letter issued by RBS in 2015 stated that Miss D 
would need to call to request her account be downgrade.
Miss D did not agree with this as she says she did not receive this final response letter she 
therefore asked for an ombudsman to issue a decision on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance I should highlight that for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that RBS did something wrong that caused Miss D a loss and having carefully 
considered everything I don't think that this is the case. Let me explain why.
I can't see that Miss D ever instructed RBS to downgrade her account and Miss D has not 
mentioned that RBS ever told her that it would downgrade her account. Miss D says that she 
just "assumed" it would be downgraded.
In addition to this I have seen a copy of RBS's final response and it clearly sets out that Miss 
D would need to contact RBS if she wanted her account downgraded. I note that Miss D 
says she did not receive this but it was addressed to her address at the time and therefore I 
think that it was most likely received
So overall I can't say that RBS did anything wrong in relation to this matter and therefore I 
am unable to ask it to refund the account fees that were incurred after 2015.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
DRN-1748196Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman