DRN-3304507
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy NewDay Ltd have cancelled her credit card account with them and left 
adverse information on her credit file.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
Mrs S had a credit card account with NewDay. To maintain the account, she needed to 
make at least the minimum payments by a certain date each month. I find the account terms 
and conditions and monthly statements make this clear. 
In late 2019/early 2020, Mrs S was behind on her minimum payments, meaning her account 
was in arrears. To get the account back on track she needed to pay the arrears and continue 
to make her monthly minimum payments. 
Unfortunately, in early 2020 Mrs S was involved in a car crash and suffered from Covid-19. 
Combined this meant she spent a significant amount of time in hospital. NewDay was aware 
of this to some extent as it called her in March 2020 to discuss her account. She asked it to 
call her back a week later.
NewDay have shown that they did attempt to call Mrs S as she requested. Unfortunately, 
this was unsuccessful and so they sent another letter asking that she contact them. Despite 
this missed call and letter and Mrs S saying she would be able to speak between 18 and 20 
March 2020, there is nothing to show she attempted to call NewDay. 
The account remained in arrears as it had been from the end of 2019 and so a default notice 
letter was sent in early April 2020. Whilst I appreciate Mrs S had previously said she wasnt 
in receipt of letters, NewDay were required to send a notice if they were intending to apply a 
default. This was also almost a month after Mrs S had told NewDay she was in hospital, so 
there was no reason for them to think she would still be unavailable at this time. This notice 
letter also made it clear that the account could be terminated. 
This notice period past without any further contact or payments from Mrs S. The default was 
then applied and the account terminated at the start of May 2020. This was after NewDay 
hadnt heard from Mrs S for about two months and there had been arrears on the account for 
almost six months. I am satisfied that the default was applied fairly and was a fair reflection 
of the status of the account. It is important to note NewDay are required to report factual 
information to the credit reference agencies. 
When Mrs S did contact NewDay, the account had already been terminated the day before. 
NewDay have acknowledged that they didnt tell Mrs S this and instead agreed a payment 
holiday for the next two months. Whilst I appreciate Mrs S should have been told, I dont 
believe she has suffered any detriment from this. It was fair to give her this time, and it 
meant she could clear the arrears on the account. Which she did do.
I sympathise with Mrs S position. She faced a prolonged period in hospital, and it must have 
been a difficult period for her. However, I cant say NewDay have done anything wrong 
based on the information available to it at the time it needed to make decisions about what to 
do with her account.
NewDay responded to say that they accepted the findings as set out in the provisional 
decision and had nothing further to add.
Mrs S responded to say that she didnt agree with the findings. She doesnt think she has 
been treated fairly or that the severity of her illness has been taken into consideration. She 
also reiterated that shed made as many payments as she could, as soon as she could. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I do want Mrs S to know I sympathise with what she has been through and I do 
understand the difficult situation she found herself in, my decision is as I explained in my 
provisional decision. I dont think NewDay have done anything wrong. They acted fairly, 
based on the information that was available to them at the time. 
My final decision
Mr final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman