DRN-3615694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say they have lost out because Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) gave them incomplete or misleading information about how their investment in 
its with-profits fund worked.
They say Prudential failed to bring to their attention the date on which with-profits policies 
like theirs were routinely revalued. They say they lost out as a result by making their partial 
encashment after rather than before the revaluation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs independent financial adviser (IFA) sent Prudential a form requesting a 
partial encashment of their with-profits bond. A timeline from the IFA says it sent this on 
26 February and all parties agree Prudential received it on 1 March.
The form was sent after the IFA had already had a number of interactions with Prudential to 
clarify the encashment process and arrange the assignment of the bond into joint names 
ahead of that, including phone calls on 11 and 17 February. Based on those interactions and 
past experience, the IFA decided not to send the encashment form until after the assignment 
was complete.
On 23 February Prudential made its annual bonus declaration for with-profits policies like 
Mr and Mrs Hs. From what Prudential has told us, it included that annual bonus rates would 
be reduced. From what Mr and Mrs H have told us, it also said: 
The final bonus will be lower for the majority of customers but will continue to be paid. This 
means that overall plan values will, for the vast majority of customers, be maintained or 
show small increases compared to last year.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy was revalued at the start of 1 March. In Mr and Mrs Hs case, the 
revaluation reduced their policy value. So when their encashment took place on 1 March, 
they received less than earlier valuations had led them to expect.
Prudential has said new overall yield rates are declared on 1 March each year and 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy value dropped as a result. It has sent Mr and Mrs H a table showing 
the yield rates before and after 1 March. According to this table, their investments into the 
bond were made on two different dates many years apart and the yield rate is different for 
each investment date  but in both cases the rate after 1 March was lower than before it.
Prudential has said that overall yield decreased due to the reduction in annual bonus rates. It 
has also said overall yield represents a combination of Regular Bonus which once earned 
cannot be taken away when determining guaranteed benefits, and Final Bonus which is not 
guaranteed and only earned when units are cashed in. It has also said: 
Each year, new rates are declared which supersede any previous rate declared. This 
means that any previous valuation is re-calculated. When a new declaration of Overall Yields 
is made, all previous rates are replaced with the rates in the new declaration unlike Regular 
Bonus rates which are cumulative and once applied remain. These take effect on 1 March
Prudential has said Mr and Mrs Hs annual statements point out the fund involves risk, the 
value can go down at any time and the fund guide says the rate of future regular bonus can 
change at any time without prior notice and isnt guaranteed to be added each year. 
Prudential has also said the 1 March date for revaluations was flagged in small print on one 
of the later pages of Mr and Mrs Hs annual statements. The wording says: Regular bonus, 
currently 1.5% a year effective from 1 March, is added on a daily basis through increases to 
the unit price. Prudential says there are also the with-profits fund terms and conditions, but 
it has given us no detail of what is said there in connection with the 1 March date.
Prudential has also said policies are revalued on the same date each year, so the 1 March 
date of the revaluation was a known date. Mr and Mrs H have said they did not know of this. 
Prudential - during and in response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint - said Mr and Mrs Hs IFA 
should have known it.
Prudential also suggested, in reply to the complaint, that the 23 February bonus declaration 
announcement allowed customers like Mr and Mrs H time - a week - to make decisions 
based on the announcement before the changes announced came into effect on 1 March. Its 
suggestion seemed to be that Mr and Mrs H, with the help of their IFA, couldve worked out 
their partial encashment would pay more if it were carried out before the policy revaluation, 
and couldve acted on this to secure the higher value by giving instructions earlier.
Prudential has also said it works on a five working day timescale for each transaction. Here it 
carried out the assignment in two days and the partial encashment on the day after receiving 
the paperwork. It has said that if the encashment form had been sent at the same time as 
the assignment form, on 19 February, both the assignment and encashment could have 
taken place before 1 March and Mr and Mrs H wouldve got a higher value paid to them.
From what Mr and Mrs H have told us, their IFA offered them half the sum they lost as a 
result of the encashment not taking place before 1 March. The IFA has said it could have 
sent the encashment form earlier, with the assignment papers, but didnt in order to avoid 
the possibility of the encashment being put through in error before the policy assignment. 
Also it was unaware of any reason to try to beat a 1 March deadline, because Prudential 
didnt make it aware (during its phone calls with Prudential, for example) that Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy value was due to be reduced.
Mr and Mrs H have pointed out that Prudential, when referring to the 1 March date being 
mentioned on their annual statement, said it could be highlighted a bit more, so wasnt 
highlighted enough. But Mr and Mrs H also say whats said in the statement there is vague 
and, even alongside the bonus declaration, doesnt make clear the significant overnight 
revaluation of the bond that takes place between the last day of February and 1 March.
Mr and Mrs H have also questioned how their IFA could have anticipated a 5% policy value 
cut based on the announcement of a cut in the regular bonus rate from 1.5% to 1.25% and 
what was said about how the vast majority of customers would increase or maintain values. 
Mr and Mrs H have said there was no way of knowing the cut in their policy value was on its 
way and that time was of the essence. They have said that had customers like them known 
about this, many would have tried to take out funds before the deadline.
Mr and Mrs H say they think the reduction is the result of an annual adjustment of the final 
bonus but they ask how anyone could know, because the section in their annual statement 
that deals with final bonus makes no reference to any changes in final bonus being effective from 1 March. They say Prudential shouldve been clear that final bonus is routinely adjusted 
on 1 March. They say that if theyd known about the significance of the 1 March deadline, 
they wouldve either brought forward their transaction or left it until afterwards.
Mr and Mrs H didnt think their treatment by Prudential was fair, particularly in view of how 
much it charges them each year to look after the plan (more than the sums in dispute here).
I issued my provisional decision in May 2022, explaining I wasnt planning to uphold the 
complaint. What I said included, in brief summary:
Prudentials complaint response presented its position as being that Mr and Mrs H were 
given, at or prior to the bonus announcement, clear information about how their policy 
was likely to be affected and time to make their encashment ahead of the change. But:
It wasnt clear from the annual statement, the bonus declaration or anything else, as 
far as was drawn to my attention, that revaluations take place on 1 March or that new 
overall yield rates will be decided at that time and that the effect of all this was likely 
to be negative for Mr and Mrs H.
The bonus announcement said overall plan values would be maintained or increase 
slightly for most but didnt specify to whom this did or didnt apply. So no one could 
base a decision on this with confidence that they would benefit by either delaying or 
speeding up an encashment instruction. 
The five working day processing timescale meant requests made immediately after 
the bonus announcement werent bound to be completed before it took effect.
Prudentials conduct wasnt consistent with a policy intended to give policyholders a 
period in which to act after a bonus announcement before it took effect.
Despite what Prudential had said during the complaint, I didnt think its policy or practice 
at the time was to give advance notice of the effect of the revaluation or to give time to 
act after a bonus announcement before it took effect. Also, I didnt think advance notice 
was something Prudential was wrong not to give  as giving it could be detrimental for 
investors who werent planning to take money out of the with-profits fund. So I didnt 
think it was unfair that Prudential hadnt given Mr and Mrs H clear information to enable 
them, after the bonus announcement, to carry out their partial encashment before the 
policy revaluation took effect.
The February annual bonus announcement anticipated an improvement in values for 
most policies. So if Prudential had told Mr and Mrs H or their IFA more about when this 
would take place, it wouldve been more likely to encourage them to delay rather than 
speed up their encashment instruction.
Prudential couldnt have told Mr and Mrs Hs IFA anything useful about policy valuations 
during the two phone calls the IFA has mentioned having with Prudential, as both these 
took place before the bonus declaration announcement had even been made. 
Prudential replied to my provisional decision saying it was happy with my decision and had 
nothing more to add. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with my decision and replied with detailed points. These included, in 
brief summary:
Its odd to say Prudentials practice wasnt what it says it was. Its practice was to give information about bonuses that could be acted upon. Giving the bonus declaration in 
advance of the revaluation would serve no purpose otherwise. Prudential always does 
give advance notice - thats the nature of the bonus declaration. But what it says can be 
misleading, unclear or not given soon enough to be acted on. Arguably, Prudential 
shouldve given earlier notice.
Policyholders should fully understand how investments work and so should be made fully 
aware that policy values will always fall or rise on the date the annual bonus declaration 
is implemented each year. It doesnt matter who would or would not benefit. This year 
their bond value rose rather than fell at that time.
It is strange to say it wont always be right to give advance notice of changes that might 
reduce policy values and it begs the question when will it be right? 
Knowing that an encashment was about to be made, Prudential couldve and shouldve 
told their IFA that their policy value might go up or down on the date the annual bonus 
declaration is implemented.
I was wrong in thinking that overall plan values being mostly maintained or increased 
meant cash-in values being mostly maintained or increased. Overall plan values meant 
values without final bonus. In light of the accompanying statement that final bonus would 
mostly be lower, and with knowledge of when such bonuses would be routinely adjusted, 
the right conclusion was that cash-in values would be lower not higher. Understanding all 
this, it wouldve been crystal clear the impact of the bonus announcement on them would 
be negative.
In contrast, this years announcement was that Final bonus will be increased for most of 
our customers and therefore the value of their plans (will increase)". And their policy did 
in fact increase. This contradicts my conclusion that Prudentials practice isnt to give 
notice of changes in advance and in time to act. So the complaint should be upheld.
As the negative impact on their policy value was foreseeable, I was wrong to conclude 
that more knowledge about the announcement wouldve most likely encouraged their IFA 
to delay rather than speed up the encashment.
They arent suggesting Prudential shouldve given them a personal assessment of how 
exactly the announcement would affect their bond. In fact, this wasnt needed to 
understand what the impact of the announcement would be on them. The crucial point 
was knowing that an increase in final bonus means a higher payout and a decrease a 
lower one - and final bonus is adjusted on the date the announcement is implemented.
Their complaint isnt about trying to beat the policy value reductions but rather about 
Prudential failing to provide clear information to them. In this respect, Prudential has 
failed not only them but all policyholders. I should be encouraging greater transparency 
rather than making excuses for Prudential. My misunderstanding of Prudentials 
announcement is a damning indictment of Prudentials, until now, unfathomable bonus 
practices.
Prudential should be directed to reimburse their losses and asked to consider publishing 
its annual declaration earlier and with clearer information, including particular information 
about the date of the revaluation and about where on the annual statements details can 
be found of the bonuses and annual yields.
On a supposedly 'smoothed' product, with no Market Value Reduction (MVR) applying, 
they lost 5% overnight, which is hardly smoothing, because of a deadline that had never been made clear to them or their adviser. The only communication they get is the August 
annual statement, and it doesnt clearly explain that on the deadline date each year 
regular bonus, final bonus and overall yields are all routinely adjusted, up or down. This 
isnt spelt out anywhere, even in the small print.
With knowledge of the deadline dates significance, they couldve insisted their 
transactions be completed before it or waited and made different decisions. Prudentials 
lack of clarity over the significance of the deadline date has, together with other factors, 
directly caused their unnecessary loss and they firmly believe Prudential treated them 
unfairly and so should bear responsibility for the loss they incurred. They werent aware 
of the February annual bonus declaration until Prudential raised it in reply to their 
complaint, so this was somewhat beside the point. 
After receiving Mr and Mrs Hs comments, I pointed out to Prudential that Mr and Mrs H had 
said overall plan values meant values without final bonus and that, as it was also said that 
final bonus would mostly be lower, they thought the right conclusion was that cash-in values 
would be lower not higher after 1 March  giving them incentive to act earlier and making me 
wrong to think the opposite. I invited Prudential to clarify the position and asked whether it 
maintained that it gave and intended to give clear information by 23 February about the 
effects of the 1 March policy changes, sufficient for consumers to know theyd be better off 
taking funds out of the bond before 1 March rather than after.
In reply, Prudential said:
The 2021 Bonus Declaration announcement referred to the vast majority rather than all, 
or any specific, customers - so no individual customer could be certain of the impact on 
their policy of the new bonus rates. The announcement was not intended to provide a 
basis for action.
The reference to values compared to last year is intended to refer to values compared a 
year apart rather than on consecutive days. So March 2020 to March 2021 rather than 
the day before and after the revaluation. Mr and Mrs Hs 2021 annual benefit statement 
showed a small increase in cash-in value between August 2020 and August 2021.
I asked Mr and Mrs H if they had more to add. What they said included, in summary:
Prudentials statement, that the bonus declaration announcement wasnt intended to 
provide a basis for action, isnt consistent with its second final response letter that said 
the declaration was made public a week prior to 1 March stating the reduction in rates, 
allowing customers time to make any financial decisions based on the information in the 
announcement If that statement is incorrect, are they not at least owed an apology or 
recompense for Prudential having misled them?
A customer reading the 2021 bonus declaration announcement with a full understanding 
of how bonuses worked, would strongly believe their overall or cash-in value for 
encashments would be lower after 1 March. The announcement clearly stated there was 
to be "a reduction in rates". 
Similarly, a customer reading the 2022 bonus declaration with a full understanding of 
how bonuses worked, would strongly believe their overall/ cash-in value for encashments 
would be higher after 1 March 2022. That declaration clearly states ...for most of our 
customers...the value of their plans.... will be increased
So, irrespective of vague "intention", the declarations make it very clear valuations would 
after 1 March fall in 2021 and rise in 2022 - and gave time to "act", certainly in 2022.If "comparison of values" is year on year rather than consecutive days or other time 
periods, why isnt this made crystal clear with simple, unequivocal words? Also, the small 
increase in their cash-in value between August 2020 and August 2021 doesnt appear 
relevant as the encashment wasnt made near those dates. What is relevant is their day 
to day cash in value shockingly fell by almost 5% between close of business on Friday 
(or later still as it was the same on Saturday) and the following Monday 1 March.
It isnt stated or explained that final bonus and overall yield are adjusted annually - with 
potentially precipitous effects - on 1 March on a supposedly smoothed product with no 
MVR applying. This is the crux of the complaint.
Given the infrequency with which stock markets fall by up to 5% in one session, it isnt 
fair or reasonable for a with-profits investor to crystallise an almost 5% overnight loss 
because of a systematic adjustment on a fixed date known only to Prudential that, with 
knowledge and clarity on bonus workings, could easily have been avoided. This is the 
root of what they argue is unreasonable and unfair. They were encouraged to invest in 
the bond in order to avoid the ups and downs of the stock market. They could never 
have imagined so much value being wiped off their smoothed investment overnight.
Their IFA and Prudential made thousands from their investment over the years. Nothing 
was clearly explained at the start except the supposed tax advantages and a hard sell on 
"smoothing". They held it in good faith. After more than 25 years at their first encashment 
ever they were given valuations which they checked almost daily and were steady right 
up to the night before. There was no MVR applying and no precipitous stock market 
movement. Imagine the shock when the payment was some 5% less than quoted simply 
because the encashment coincided with the annual 1 March date on which, unbeknown 
to them, significant changes to valuations (always) occur. A lay person on the Clapham 
omnibus would really not think this fair and reasonable.
It's not that these re-valuations occur, but the lack of transparency over their timing, the 
stealthy way they are applied, the significant effect they can have in general terms on the 
so called smoothing and the fact the final bonus/ overall yield mechanism is nowhere 
clearly stated and has never been clearly communicated to them. They would be none 
the wiser but for their unfortunate experience and this complaint. The true ramifications 
of the adjustments made on 1 March, clearly a very significant date for the investment, 
should, in general terms, be made clear to investors. 
The ombudsman should shine a light on Prudential's hitherto unfathomable bonus/ yield 
practices for the benefit of all with-profits investors and find Prudential jointly culpable for 
their avoidable loss in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that Prudential didnt make clear to them the date 
on which annual policy revaluations are routinely made  and that this failing caused them to 
suffer a loss they couldve otherwise avoided. In what has been presented in this complaint, 
Ive not seen evidence that the significance of this date was made clear. But to know that 
they should act to avoid a loss on the revaluation date, Mr and Mrs H wouldve needed to 
know the revaluation date and know also that their bond value would reduce on that date. In my view Prudential didnt have to tell Mr and Mrs H in advance that their bond value would 
reduce on the revaluation date. Also I dont think a lack of clarity around the date or the 
general workings of the fund is the cause of the loss Mr and Mrs H are seeking to recover 
from Prudential  because clarity around those things would in my view not have been 
enough to enable them to avoid that loss.
Giving advance notice that a revaluation would reduce values, and allowing policyholders to 
act before it, could be detrimental for policies still in the fund. I say this by way of example as 
to why Prudential might legitimately decide not to give that sort of notice. I conclude from 
what I have that it wasnt Prudentials policy or practice at the time to give such notice. I say 
this for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision but also because Prudential has now 
said the February bonus announcement wasnt intended to provide a basis for action.
Mr and Mrs H have said Prudential should have told their IFA that a policy revaluation was 
on the way in their phone conversations. Ive explained I dont think Prudential needed to tell 
them the value would go down and that I dont think knowledge of the revaluation date alone 
wouldve changed the outcome here.
Mr and Mrs H also say their issue isnt with the revaluation itself, but the stealthy way it was 
done, and that the final bonus/ overall yield mechanism isnt clearly stated anywhere and 
has never been clearly communicated. I agree Prudentials information should have been 
clear and accurate. But, as Ive already explained, I dont think fairness required that the 
clear information Prudential gave included actionable advance notice of the bonus changes 
of the kind Mr and Mrs H wouldve needed to avoid their loss. 
Mr and Mrs H point out they invested in a fund with smoothing so as to avoid the ups and 
downs of the stock market. So they object to the revaluations size, its suddenness and the 
significant effect they say it had on smoothing. They say they could never have imagined so 
much value being wiped off their smoothed investment and the fall compares unfavourably 
with the movements typically seen on the stock market on any given day. They say no MVR 
was being applied and no matching fall occurred overnight on investment markets.
But Im not persuaded by this that Prudential is at fault for making the revaluation or ought to 
cover Mr and Mrs Hs loss. The revaluation took place on one particular day, but it was an 
annual adjustment - so it related to a longer period than a day, which gives context to its 
size. Also Mr and Mrs H acknowledge that adjustments can be made at any time. In referring 
to an MVR, they refer to a way values in the fund can change significantly. With this and all 
Ive said above in mind, Mr and Mrs Hs points dont persuade me that the adjustment was 
incompatible with what they were entitled to expect from this sort of investment. They refer to 
conversations at the sale 25 years or so earlier, and I note this, but the complaint isnt about 
the sale  and I dont see that consideration of the sale would change my conclusions here.
Mr and Mrs H werent aware of the February bonus declaration until Prudential raised it in 
reply to their complaint. So the wording of the announcement didnt inform their actions or 
cause their loss. But Mr and Mrs H say that with the benefit of what they now know about 
how bonuses work, they would have understood from the announcement that their policy 
value would fall at the revaluation  so I was wrong to say that knowing more about that 
announcement wouldve encouraged them to delay rather than speed up their instruction. 
Also, from what Prudential have said, Mr and Mrs H werent an exception to the majority 
whose values were to increase slightly  but the increase referred to didnt relate to values 
measured before and after the change but between points a year apart, which Mr and Mrs H 
say isnt very clear  a view I share based on what has been provided in this complaint. 
But regardless of how the February announcement ought to have been interpreted, or might 
have been interpreted by Mr and Mrs H had they seen it, my view remains that it wasnt unfair for Prudential to not give Mr and Mrs H, in that announcement or elsewhere, advance 
notice that their bond would be worth less after the revaluation than before it. In my view the 
announcement wasnt intended to provide that sort of information. I note again it referred to 
changes that would happen for most, without specifying to whom it would or wouldnt apply, 
and that Prudential says it wasnt supposed to provide a basis for action. 
Mr and Mrs H have suggested Prudential pay redress or apologise if its complaint response 
was wrong or misleading in what it said about the announcement allowing them time to 
make decisions. Prudential does appear to have withdrawn this suggestion now. But its 
comment didnt have a bearing on the loss Mr and Mrs H have complained of or cause them 
to make or pursue their complaint. So I dont think financial redress is due there and Im not 
on balance persuaded to make the sort of direction Mr and Mrs H have suggested. 
Mr and Mrs Hs first ever encashment, after more than 25 years, was carried out just after a 
policy revaluation reduced the value of their bond. That was very unfortunate timing. If they 
had known revaluations around that time were normal, this might have made the outcome 
less of a shock. But I think it very likely they wouldve still been very disappointed because 
the timing and the result was very unlucky. The fact Mr and Mrs H checked the value daily 
and could hardly have done more to check on what they might receive, wouldve only made 
the outcome more disappointing. They found, instead of a slightly increased or steady value, 
a suddenly reduced one as soon as the transaction went ahead. But ultimately the root of 
this disappointment in my view was a reduction in value that Prudential was not at fault for 
making and was entitled to make.
In conclusion, based on what has been offered during this complaint, my view is Prudential 
didnt give Mr and Mrs H clear information about how the bonuses worked  and some of 
what Prudential has said, including during this complaint, seems to me to have been either 
incorrect or at least misleading. But, for the reasons I have given above, I dont believe that 
the shortcomings caused Mr and Mrs Hs loss or give me reason to uphold their complaint. 
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs H for all their comments and for their courtesy throughout.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman