DRN-4072086
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank have not provided 
him with clear, transparent and honest information about his account.
What happened
Mr H opened an Individual Savings Account (ISA), which had a variable interest rate and 
included a bonus for a 12 month period. He says that he visited Tescos website at least 
once a month (and more often when the Bank of England interest rate increased) to look at 
the same name of the account he has, to view the interest rate he was receiving. He says he 
assumed this was the same account he had as the name of the account matched, there was 
no issue number of the account (which would indicate the account listed is different to the 
one he held). He said there was no information on those pages to indicate the interest rate 
displayed only applied to accounts opened from a specific date, and the absence of any 
information on those pages to direct someone who had opened the same type of account 
previously, to see what interest rate they were earning. 
Mr H says that when Tesco informed him of an interest rate increase, they failed to tell him 
what the total new applicable interest rate was, and he says they only referred to a 
component of the total interest rate  the standard interest rate, which was the smaller 
portion of the total interest rate. Due to these factors, Mr H said that Tesco were not being as 
transparent and clear as they could and should be. Mr H contacted Tesco and spoke with a 
call handler who didn't clearly explain that changes to their variable base rate affect all 
instant access accounts. Mr H made a complaint to Tesco.  
Tesco upheld Mr Hs complaint. They explained that the interest rate was made up of two 
parts, a bonus rate which was fixed for 12 months and a variable base rate. They apologised 
for the colleague he spoke to as they didn't clearly explain that changes to their variable 
base rate affects all instant access accounts. Tesco told Mr H the interest rate of the new 
instant access ISA. Tesco said that in order for him to get this interest rate he would need to 
open a new account and request an internal ISA to ISA transfer. They sent him a cheque of 
£50 as an apology for any inconvenience or confusion caused. Mr H brought his complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said he looked at the literature that was 
provided when Mr H opened his account, which clearly stated what will happen in the event 
of an interest change  and which part of the interest component would change. He said he 
also looked at Tescos website which confirms the standard variable rates which apply to 
accounts and the dates they are effective from.
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said his complaint specifically focuses on Tescos communication post account 
opening and the level of clarity and transparency with which they conduct themselves. He 
argues that Tescos behaviour is deliberately designed to cause confusion and to make it 
difficult for the customer to easily understand what the total rate of interest is on their specific 
account at a given point in time. He told us what the financial press has said about Tescos 
conduct, and they arent reasonable, as they stood to benefit from misunderstanding and 
confusion. He sent us a screenshot of communication from Tesco in relation to an increase 
of the interest rate, which did not highlight the bonus interest rate or the total interest rate. Mr 
H said he did not use online banking with Tesco, nor was he required to register for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. Im unable 
to take into consideration what Mr H has told us the financial press has said about Tesco, as 
our service looks at the circumstances of individual complaints on a case by case basis.
Id like to explain to Mr H that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as what they display on their website, and what they 
should tell customers in their communications post account opening. It would be the role of 
the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Tesco to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. So we are unable to tell Tesco 
to add issue numbers onto their products, to quote the bonus interest rate and the total 
interest rate in their communications to customers or to make changes to their website.
While Mr H has said his complaint specifically focuses on Tescos communication post 
account opening and the level of clarity and transparency with which they conduct 
themselves, I must take into account the agreement he made with them at the outset and 
what he was told about the interest rate when applying for the account to see if Tesco were 
transparent about this. But I have also taken into consideration the communication that 
Tesco have sent him post account opening also. 
Tesco are clear in their terms and conditions on page 12  which Mr H would have needed 
to agree to in order to open the instant access ISA (and the terms were available when Mr H 
would have clicked to apply for the account) that You can find out how much interest you 
are earning at any time by logging onto Online Banking, Mobile App or by contacting us. 
Although Mr H has said he wasnt registered for online banking  which is his right to not 
register for this, when he wanted to find out the interest rate for the account he didnt contact 
Tesco as the terms and conditions explained he could do, which I find to be reasonable. 
Instead he chose to view the website to look at the current interest rates for new applicants (I 
say new applicants as there is an apply button in the same section as the interest rate), 
which the terms and conditions didnt advise him to do. 
The terms and conditions and the summary box are clear that Mr Hs account is split into two 
components, the standard interest rate  which is variable. And the bonus interest rate which 
is fixed for 12 months. As the communication from Tesco which Mr H received was 
regarding an increase to his standard interest rate, then Im not persuaded it is unreasonable 
for Tesco to not include the bonus interest rate which is fixed and would not increase (and 
therefore not to include the overall interest rate). The information on this communication was 
in my opinion clear and factual. Tesco have provided us with the welcome letter which they 
provided Mr H and this confirms Mr Hs fixed bonus rate, so Im satisfied that he should have 
been aware of what this rate was. Mr Hs summary box also says he could manage his 
account via the telephone. So if he was in any doubt of the fixed interest rate (or his overall 
rate of interest, he could have either referred to this communication again, or as the terms 
and conditions show, he could have contacted them.
So Im not persuaded that Tescos behaviour was deliberately designed to cause confusion and to make it difficult for the customer to easily understand what the total rate of interest 
was on the specific account at a given point in time. They set out on at least two documents 
how Mr H could manage his account. If he had opted into online banking he would have 
been able to see the interest rate and receive messages from Tesco direct to his online 
banking of any rate increase. But even though he didnt register for online banking, Tesco 
were clear that if he wanted to find out what interest he was earning at any time he could 
contact them. The interest rate was not linked to the bank of England base rate and it 
appears that Mr H received communication from Tesco when they did increase the standard 
interest rate on his account. So Im persuaded they have been reasonable and transparent 
here. 
Tesco sent Mr H £50 for their call handler not clearly explaining to Mr H that changes to their 
variable base rate affects all instant access accounts. This is in line with what our service 
would award for this. So it follows I dont require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman