DRN-2891526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that The Mansfield Building Society took a direct debit payment after 
theyd repaid their mortgage. They say it didnt return the money quickly enough and this 
caused them emotional and financial difficulties, especially as it happened during the 
Christmas holiday period.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with MBS. They arranged to re-mortgage with another 
provider, which completed on Friday 20 December 2019.
MBS says it received the redemption money in the afternoon of 23 December 2019. It says 
this was too late for it to cancel the direct debit for the mortgage payment due on 25 
December 2019. The direct debit payment was taken from Mr and Mrs Ss account on 27 
December 2019.  
Mr S says he paid for a BACS payment to ensure the redemption money arrived on 20 
December. He contacted MBS on 31 December 2019 to ask about the direct debit payment. 
MBS said the payment would be refunded on the next working day, 2 January 2020. Mr S 
wasnt happy that MBS wouldnt return the payment the same day and raised a direct debit 
indemnity with his bank. He says he received the money on either 1 or 2 January 2020. 
Our investigator said MBS had told Mr and Mrs S what would happen if it received the 
redemption money after 20 December 2019. It followed its process and didnt make an error. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S couldnt understand why the redemption funds took three 
days to reach MBS. He said MBS should have returned the direct debit payment straight 
away, using faster payments. He said it was hiding poor service behind it being a holiday 
period with low staffing levels, and its own decision to close early on 31 December 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did MBS make an error when it took the direct debt payment?
Mr and Mrs S were re-mortgaging with another provider. Their interest rate product ended on 
19 December and the re-mortgage was due to complete on 20 December 2019. I wouldnt 
expect MBS to cancel the direct debit before receiving redemption funds. There could have 
been a problem or delay with the re-mortgage. 
MBS spoke to Mr S in early December about what would happen with the contractual 
monthly payment due on 25 December. MBS said if the mortgage redeemed on 20 
December it wouldnt collect the payment. If the mortgage redeemed after this, it would take 
the payment and then refund it. 
Mr and Mrs Ss re-mortgage completed on 20 December 2019. However, MBS says it 
received the redemption money in the afternoon of 23 December 2019. It provided evidence 
to support this. It was too late for MBS to cancel Mr and Mrs Ss direct debit payment. 
The direct debit was taken from Mr and Mrs Ss account on 27 December. This payment was 
higher than previous payments because the account moved into MBSs standard variable 
rate after Mr and Mrs Ss interest rate product ended on 19 December. MBS had written to 
Mr and Mrs S in late November 2019 informing them of this.
Mr S says he paid £30 for a BACS payment so that the funds would reach MBS on 20 
December. I can understand he was disappointed this didnt happen. I havent seen anything 
to suggest this was due to an error by MBS..
I dont think MBS made an error here. And it had given Mr and Mrs S clear information about 
what would happen. 
Did MBS act promptly to refund the payment?
Mr S contacted MBS on 31 December 2019 to ask for the money to be refunded. MBS said it 
couldnt refund the money that day, but it would return the funds on the next working day, 2 
January 2020. 
MBS says it will only refund a direct debit payment once its cleared. It says as it isnt itself a 
clearing bank, it relies on receiving notification from third parties. 
Mr S wanted the money refunded straight away, and he was frustrated this didnt happen. 
But I dont think MBS made an error or acted unfairly. It checked whether it could return the 
money sooner, and it gave Mr S clear information about what would happen.
MBS said while it usually sends refunds via three-day payment, it was willing to use faster 
payments here as it appreciated the urgency. The reason it didnt do so when it spoke to 
Mr S was because it hadnt completed the process to check the direct debit payment had 
cleared. I think this was reasonable. Until then, it was possible the payment wouldnt clear, 
for instance if there werent enough funds in Mr and Mrs Ss account.
MBS received notice on 1 January 2020 that Mr and Mrs S had asked their bank to recall the 
direct debit. This meant it was no longer necessary or appropriate for it to continue the 
refund process. 
Mr S said he had to alert MBS to the fact the direct debit had been taken and chase it for a 
refund. I understand why Mr S contacted MBS. However, I dont think theres any reason to 
think MBS wouldnt have refunded the payment following its usual process if he hadnt done 
so.
Did MBS treat Mr and Mrs S fairly?
I dont think MBS gave Mr and Mrs S any reason to think the money wouldnt be returned  
just the opposite. It had told them it would take the direct debit if the mortgage wasnt 
redeemed on 20 December 2020 and then refund it. And when Mr S contacted it on 31 
December it said it would return the money on 2 January 2020  the next working day. 
There were three bank holidays between Mr and Mrs Ss re-mortgage completing and the 
return of the direct debit payment. I dont know if it would have been possible for MBS to 
return the payment sooner if it hadnt closed early on 31 December 2019. Its not uncommon 
for businesses to have reduced staff levels and open for shorter hours over the Christmas and New Year period  as was the case at MBS and possibly the clearing banks involved 
with the payments. This is a business decision for these businesses. 
Mr S says they had no money over Christmas. He says they didnt know if they could afford 
to visit family or pay bills, and had to put their life on hold. I need to take into account here 
that the money left Mr and Mrs Ss account on 27 December 2019. Mr and Mrs S contacted 
MBS about this on 31 December (presumably when they saw the payment had gone), and 
were told the money would be returned on the next working day. When Mr S spoke to MBS 
on 31 December 2019 he said theyd been financially inconvenienced: he didnt tell MBS 
they were in financial hardship and in immediate need of the money.
Nonetheless Mr and Mrs S were worried about the payment and when it would be refunded. 
I dont think though that MBS made errors or treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. It gave them 
clear information about what was happening. It checked if it could return the money sooner. 
Theres nothing to suggest MBS wouldnt have returned the payment on 2 January 2020 if 
Mr and Mrs S hadnt asked their bank to recall the direct debit instead. 
Mr S says MBS didnt call him when investigating his complaint. As complaint handling isnt 
itself a regulated activity, this isnt something I can look into. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman