DRN-3193391
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that MBNA Limited approved him for a credit account, and for later credit
limit increases on that account, which he feels were unaffordable for him at those times.    
What happened
Mr G applied for an MBNA credit account in February 2014. Mr Gs application was
approved, and MBNA issued Mr G with a credit card with a credit limit of £6,700.
 
In November 2014, MBNA increased the credit limit on Mr Gs account to £11,700. A further
credit limit was implemented by MBNA in January 2017, this time to £13,500.
 
In 2020, Mr G raised a complaint with MBNA on the basis that he felt the provisions of credit
by MBNA, both at the point of the account application and the later credit limit increases, had
been unaffordable for him at those times.
 
MBNA looked at Mr Gs complaint. They felt that they had undertaken checks into Mr Gs
financial position at the time of the account application and later credit limit increases and
that there had been nothing resulting from any of those checks which reasonably suggested
that the credit being offered to Mr G might be unaffordable for him at the time that the credit
was being offered. Because of this, MBNA didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that the checks that
MBNA had undertaken at the time of the credit provisions were reasonable and hadnt
resulted in any information that should have given MBNA cause to suspect that the credit
would be unaffordable for Mr G at those times. So, they also didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
 
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 October 2021 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that  before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit 
available to a customer on an existing line of credit  the business would undertake 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
 
MBNA say that they did that here. At the time of the account application they asked Mr 
G for information about his annual income to confirm the possibility that Mr G would 
most likely be able to make any potential repayments that might become due on the 
account. Additionally, MBNA also obtained information from a credit reference agency 
to better understand Mr Gs wider financial position at that time. And MBNA maintain 
that there was nothing resulting from any of the information that they gathered that 
should have given them cause to suspect that the approval of the credit account with 
an initial credit limit of £6,700 would be unaffordable for Mr G.
 
Having reviewed the information that MBNA would have assessed at the point of 
application I find it difficult to criticise MBNAs decision to approve Mr Gs initial credit 
application here. One reason I say this is because Mr G confirmed to MBNA that he 
was in receipt of an annual income of approximately £21,350 at that time, and the 
information that MBNA received from the credit reference agency didnt show that Mr G 
was in default on any of his other credit commitments at that time but rather suggested 
that he was managing those existing credit commitments responsibly and without 
incident.
 
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable, on the basis of the information that 
MBNA gathered on Mr Gs financial circumstances at the time of the account 
application, for MBNA to have approved Mr G for a credit account with an initial credit 
limit of £6,700, and I dont feel that there was anything in the information that MBNA 
gathered and assessed at that time that should reasonably have given them cause to 
consider that Mr G might not be able to afford the credit account that hed applied for.
 
In November 2014, the credit limit on Mr Gs account was increased from £6,700 to 
£11,700. MBNA have confirmed that before offering this credit limit to Mr G that they 
assessed how Mr G had managed his MBNA credit account up to that time, and that 
they obtained updated information from a credit reference agency to refresh their 
understanding of Mr Gs wider financial position.
 
Having reviewed monthly statements for the account in question for the months leading 
up to the first credit limit increase Im satisfied that these statements demonstrated to 
MBNA that Mr G was managing the credit account responsibly and without any 
indication of potential financial difficulty. And I say this because its evident that Mr G 
was making monthly payments greater, and often significantly greater, than the 
minimum monthly payments required on the account, and in doing so was reducing the 
capital balance outstanding on the account at a reasonable rate.
 
Additionally, having reviewed the information that MBNA obtained from the credit 
reference agency at that time, Im also satisfied that there was nothing within this 
information that should have given MBNA any reason to suspect that Mr G was in 
financial difficulty or that he might not be able to afford the credit limit increase being 
offered to him. And this is because the information from the credit reference agency 
doesnt show any instances of Mr G struggling to maintain his other existing credit or 
that Mr Gs amount of other credit was at a potentially unsustainable level or was 
increasing significantly.
 
All of which means that Im also satisfied that there was nothing in the information that 
MBNA gathered before implementing the first credit limit increase that should 
reasonably have given them cause to suspect that the credit limit increase being 
offered might not be affordable for Mr G at that time, such that it shouldnt have been 
offered.
 
However, while Im satisfied that up to the point of the first credit limit increase in 
November 2014 that MBNA had conduced reasonable and proportionate checks into 
Mr Gs financial position before implementing offers of credit, and that there had been nothing resulting from those checks that should have given MBNA any cause to 
suspect that Mr G might not be able to afford that credit being offered to him at those 
times, Im not convinced that the same can be said in regard to the second credit limit 
increase  from £11,700 to £13,500  that was implemented in January 2017.
 
There are several reasons why I say this. Firstly, its notable that Mr G himself applied 
for a credit limit increase, from £11,700 to £14,000, approximately eight months earlier, 
in March 2016, but that MBNA had deemed that increase to be unaffordable and had 
declined Mr Gs application for that credit limit increase.
 
Its also notable from the account statements in the months leading up to the second 
credit limit increase that Mr G was no longer making payments above the minimum 
monthly payment amount, but rather was usually paying the exact minimum monthly 
payment amount required such that the capital balance of the account wasnt reducing 
at a reasonable rate.
 
Finally, its also notable from the information that MBNA obtained from the credit 
refence agency that Mr Gs total amount of other external credit had increased 
significantly since the time of the first credit limit increase in November 2014  from 
approximately £11,300 to approximately £38,300.
 
While I note that Mr G hadnt missed a payment on his MBNA credit account, and that 
theres no record of him missing a due payment on any of his other external credit 
accounts, I do feel that the overall picture that presents itself from the information that 
MBNA had at their disposal at the time of the second credit limit increase is one of Mr 
G having a significantly larger total credit commitment than at the time of the previous 
credit limit increase, as well as Mr G no longer making payments above the minimum 
payment amount required by the MBNA credit account.
 
And, while I dont feel that these points considered individually should necessarily have 
given MBNA any reason to suspect that Mr G might not be able to afford the credit 
being offered to him at the time of the second credit limit increase, I do feel that these 
points considered holistically  and in light of MBNAs declining of Mr Gs earlier 
application for a credit limit increase  were such that MBNA should have considered 
whether the second credit limit increase would be affordable for that time, and that 
MBNA should have conducted further checks into Mr Gs financial position at that time.
 
Furthermore, I feel that had MBNA conducted further checks  which could have 
included contacting Mr G directly and updating their understanding of Mr Gs annual 
income  that its more likely than not that some features of Mr Gs financial position at 
that time of which MBNA were unaware  such as that Mr Gs MBNA credit account 
repayments were being made by Mr Gs daughter and that Mr G was struggling 
financially at that time  would have come to light, and that MBNA would have 
recognised that the credit limit increase being offered to Mr G at that time wasnt in all 
likelihood affordable for him such that it wouldnt have been offered.
 
It follows then that I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Gs favour as it 
relates to the second credit limit increase only.
 
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr G and MBNA the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. However, both Mr G and MBNA confirmed that they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision, and as I can confirm that my final decision will be that I am upholding 
this complaint in Mr Gs favour on the basis explained above.
  Putting things right
MBNA must reimburse to Mr Gs account all interest, fees, and charges accrued or
incurred on the account on any balance above £11,700 from the time of the second
credit limit increase in January 2017 onwards.
 
If these reimbursements result in the account having a credit balance in Mr Gs
favour, MBNA must pay this balance to Mr G along with 8% simple interest.
 
MBNA must remove all adverse reporting from Mr Gs credit file regarding this
account from the point of the second credit limit increase in January 2017 onwards.
 
Finally, MBNA must make a payment to Mr G of £100 to compensate him for the
distress and inconvenience this matter may have caused.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against MBNA Limited on the basis explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman