DRN-3614835
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc trading as Smile failed to refund several
transactions that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr H was visiting abroad with friends and when they arrived late in the evening they went
out to a local bar. Up to this point Mr H says he wasnt drinking and sometime later the group
split, and Mr H went to a bar nearby with some friends. The bar was an adult entertainment
venue and shortly after arriving some of the group left to find food, leaving Mr H with one
other of his group. His friend went to a private room with a staff member leaving Mr H alone
in the main area of the bar to wait for his friend.
Mr H was told that he must buy a drink or leave, at which point he paid for a drink and was
given a free shot. Mr H described the staff as being insistent he drink the shot. Shortly
after, Mr H described himself as feeling strange and euphoric. Mr H has only a vague
recollection over the next five hours but remembers being taken to a private room and at one
stage being shouted at to make a transaction with his card and Personal Identification
Number (PIN).
Mr H sent a garbled message to his group which looks like he was telling them he wasnt
being allowed to leave the club and this was after a large payment was made using his
phone via the Apple Pay system. The message wasnt seen by the group until later that
morning. Mr H has explained that the friend he was with was collected by his partner, but
they didnt realise he was still at the club.
Once the group realised Mr H was still missing they tried calling him. His phone was
occasionally answered by someone other than Mr H. Eventually the group were able to track
Mr H to the club and tried to gain entrance but were denied. Some of the group reported Mr
H missing to the local police and shortly after Mr H was found by members of his group close
to the bar. The bar closing hours were reported as being four hours earlier that morning from
when Mr H was found.
Mr H returned to his hotel and slept for a while. Later that morning, Mr Hs partner called
Smile about his account as it looked like Mr H had been drugged and his account was
showing a negative balance. Smile blocked his debit card and credit card but couldnt reveal
anything further because Mr H couldnt remember his security details. Once Mr H was
feeling better, he spoke to Smile and they told him about several transactions that had
happened during his time at the club.
Some had been declined, but quite a few had gone through totalling over £8,000, including
about £2,000 from an overdraft. Smile told Mr H that theyd flagged several payments which
meant sending a message to Mr Hs phone. Because Smile had received confirmation from
his phone, they were allowed to go through. Mr H initially told Smile that his cards were
stolen, but later confirmed to Smile that he still had possession of both his phone and cards.
Smile confirmed attempts were made using Mr Hs credit card which were all declined, and
Mr H also denied moving a few hundred pounds to another account.
Smile advised Mr H to report the circumstances to the local police, which he did before
leaving the country. Hes since given them (local police) more details of what happened. Mr
H returned to the UK and remained in touch with Smile who looked into what had happened.
Smile eventually told Mr H that they believed hed authorised the transactions and declined
to refund him.
Mr H complained to Smile about how theyd handled his issue and the outcome of their
investigation. He maintained that hed been drugged and hadnt consented to the payments
he disputed. Smile didnt change their position and wrote to Mr H, in summary they said:
Mr Hs story about whether he still had his card changed.
He didnt express any outward shock at the transactions.
Hed allowed his partner to access his phone and his recollections were hazy and
inconsistent.
Mr H was able to reply to texts (from Smile) and send a message to his group despite
saying he was unconscious or blacked out.
He hadnt kept his security details secure.
No one else in the party was drugged and he didnt leave when he had the
opportunity.
Mr H hadnt reported the incident to the police before contacting Smile.
Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for evidence from both parties. Mr H
continued to provide details of what happened including call logs, texts and details of others
who had had the same experience as him at the same bar. Mr H was able to provide other
details that related to the closure of the bar and arrests following a police investigation into
drugging and robbing clients of the bar.
Smile provided details of phone calls with Mr H, system information about the transactions
and their assessment of what they believed had happened and their reasons for declining to
refund Mr H.
Smiles position was that:
All the disputed transactions used Mr Hs Apple Pay system which was enabled
using facial recognition on his phone, apart from one that used his card and PIN.
Mr H had responded to flag messages from Smile confirming certain transactions.
They didnt think a third party was responsible because Mr Hs friends were in the
club and wouldnt leave him in a drugged state.
They didnt think a third party would continually take and replace his card and phone
over the five hours that the disputed transactions took place because it heightened
the risk of Mr H being aware of the activity.
Smile thought the gaps between payments were supportive of genuine transactions
and thought if an unauthorised third party had the card and phone theyd be more
likely to empty the account as fast as possible.
They thought that even if his drink was spiked, when considering all the other factors,
Mr H had authorised them himself.Smile thought that the facial recognition technology meant that Mr H was awake
when the payments were made.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it was reasonable for Smile to hold Mr
H responsible for the transactions. Various scenarios were considered, and our investigator
was persuaded that Mr H had authorised the disputed transactions. It was noted that no
medical evidence existed about Mr Hs drugged condition and he admitted to entering his
PIN into a machine. He retained his phone and card and had used them at various points so
overall it was more than likely him who made the transactions.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators outcome and commented:
Smile had agreed he was a victim of crime
There was ample reporting of criminal activity involving the club that matched what
happened to him.
The pattern of transaction isnt supportive that it was him. Transactions were
attempted for much larger amounts and once they were declined, smaller ones were
used, and this indicates the criminals were adapting to the fraud systems and text
messages.
Sending a text for help was supportive of his overall position so he wouldnt have
then been likely to agree to fraud alerts.
The later transactions reduced in amount until the final one practically emptied the
account with a similar amount which is unlikely to be related to a purchase  rather
what was left in the account.
Numerous calls were made to his phone and answered by someone else. Its likely
his phone was in the possession of whoever was making transactions for long
periods.
Mr H also provided information that his phone had been charged whilst in the club
and various apps and screens left open for long periods of time which he says
indicates it was being used by others.
Mr Hs complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Smile can hold Mr H liable for the
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them
or authorised them.
If Mr H made the disputed transactions himself, it wouldnt be fair to ask Smile to refund
them. But Mr H says he wasnt responsible for the payments in dispute. So, the key question
for me to consider is whether Smile has provided enough evidence to hold Mr H responsible.
Smile can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr H authorised the
transactions, but Smile cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of Apple Pay
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.Unless Smile can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Hs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mr H.
In summary, Smile say they can hold Mr H responsible because theres no plausible
explanation for how the payments were made without Mr Hs involvement. They contend that
its unlikely that anyone other than him could have used his phone to authorise the Apple
Pay transactions and no one else knew the PIN for his debit card. Mr H had both card and
phone in his possession and because it was protected, only he could have answered the
fraud texts from Smile.
The scenario described by Mr H is that he was alone in the club and given a drink that
appears to have been drugged. A large number of disputed transactions then took place,
including a Chip and PIN payment, numerous Apple Pay transactions using Mr Hs phone
and an attempt to use the magnetic strip on Mr Hs card.
Mr H argues that he had no intention of making these payments and thats supported by his
attempt at messaging his group early that morning. Although the message is somewhat
garbled, I think its reasonable to read into what he sent as an alert to his group that
something was wrong. So, I dont think its clear that the following payments were intended
to be made by Mr H, despite the appropriate authorisation being received by Smile (that
being the agreed way to authenticate the payments), although I understand why Smile made
the payments on Mr Hs behalf because theyd received the appropriate instruction to do so.
It's apparent that there was one Chip and PIN payment made by Mr H , and only he had the
PIN. But what he described about the payment was him vaguely aware of being shouted at
to make it. That doesnt seem like the circumstances where he was voluntarily making the
payment, more like he was being coerced into it whilst under the influence of whatever hed
being given earlier that night.
As far as the Apple payments go, Smile suggested that it would be difficult to make them if
Mr H was blacked out, due to the security features on his phone. Its not known if this feature
was enabled nor if Mr H was actually unconscious whilst these payments were being made. I
cant know, as neither can Smile, what happened in the room at the club, but its apparent
that Mr H was under the influence of something  as evidenced by his inability to
communicate with Smile when his girlfriend spoke to them later that morning.
Mr H hadnt been drinking prior to going out late that evening and none of the descriptions of
that evening indicate there was heavy drinking  so Mr H became under the influence of
something very quickly  he thinks this was the free shot he was persuaded to take and I
think this is probably what happened.
Considering the ease with which payment systems like Apple Pay can be used  especially
with facial recognition engaged and the account holder being under the influence  I dont
think its particularly implausible that the Apple Pay transactions could have been carried out
against his wishes.
When examining the attempts to use the card/Apple Pay, its evident that several
transactions were declined by various fraud systems. The pattern of the transactions tells its
own story:
Time Amount (£)  Method Result Notes04:04 23.60 Contactless/Apple  A
04:14 573.07 Contactless/Apple  A
04:36 1021.22 Contactless/Apple  D SMS sent at 05:00 for this payment.
04:36 573.07 Contactless/Apple  D
04:40 592.07 Magstripe  D
04:59 598.45 Contactless/Apple  D
05:33 574.66 Chip & PIN  A SMS confirmed at 05:25
05:52 769.38 Contactless/Apple  A
06:16 1080.11 Contactless/Apple  D Business Closed at 06:00
06:22 1080.11 Contactless/Apple  D
06:23 769.38 Contactless/Apple  A
06:54 769.38 Contactless/Apple  A
07:14 769.38 Contactless/Apple  A
07:35 769.38 Contactless/Apple  A
08:00 965.70  Contactless/Apple  A
08:21 985.33 Contactless/Apple  A
08:54 1314.10 Contactless/Apple Not Authorised
09:00 769.38 Contactless/Apple  A
09:21 383.90 Contactless/Apple  A
The first payment is acknowledged by Mr H (£23.60), at which point Mr Hs testimony is that
he was drugged. The next payment is via Apple Pay, followed by an attempt for over £1,000
which was declined. It appears that this payment triggered a fraud text from Smile, which
was confirmed by whoever answered Mr Hs phone  but it wasnt successful, and this is
probably because of additional Apple Pay restrictions.
Immediately a new attempt was made using the previous successful amount (£573.07), but
that was declined, so another attempt was made for a similar amount using the magstripe on
the card  again declined. A third unsuccessful attempt was made, at which point the
confirmation of the text was received by Smile and they advised that this allowed further
payments to go through.
The payment type was changed to Chip and PIN and then an Apple Pay for a higher amount
 both successful. Another attempt was made for over £1,000 which was declined on two
occasions before the amount was again reduced and six successful transactions were
made, slowly increasing before a further £1,000 plus attempt was made which was declined.
The next attempt was made for a lower (but previously successful amount) until the final
payment was authorised which consisted of the bulk of the remaining overdraft available in
the account.
When looking at this, it appears that whoever was making these payments was reacting to
the banks position on the amounts. The amounts increased to a point where they were
declined and then dropped to lower amounts, to then increase again. The final payment
looks more like an attempt to empty the account rather than purchase a legitimate service.
So, I think that together with Mr Hs attempted message to his group that he didnt want to be
in the club and the pattern of payments  leads me to the conclusion that I think these
payments were taken against his wishes.
Mr H reported his experience to the local police and became aware that the same club he
was in was part of a widespread criminal enquiry centred on the exploitation of customers
similar to himself. So, its not just Mr Hs experience at the club, it seems as though many
people suffered similar issues with their bank details. Whilst Im not considering anyone
elses experience here, it is supportive of Mr Hs complaint that others suffered a similar loss
to himself.Smile have also argued Mr H didnt keep his security credentials secure and sighted the
example of his partner using his app when they called Smile to block the cards. Having
listened to this call, its apparent that Mr H is recovering from whatever happened to him
earlier, but he is awake.
Because Mr H was awake, I would think it likely he opened his phone/app for his partner to
use but he was insufficiently recovered to have a conversation with the bank. This was
shown to be the case because he couldnt remember basic security details about his
account. I dont think Smile can conclude that Mr H was negligent by this example, rather
this appears to be a concerned partner trying to help with a difficult and worrying situation.
Smile believed the timing of the transactions was supportive that it was Mr H who made
them and it was unlikely to have been a staff member taking and replacing the card/phone to
make the payments. Smile appear to be saying that as the payments were spread out over a
period  this is evidence that the payments were legitimate. I understand their point and in
cases of card/phone theft  its unusual to see payments spread out because the owner of
the card/phone could notify the bank of their loss at any time. Thats not the same situation
as this one because it certainly appears that Mr H was under some form of influence. I would
think this means the staff members who drugged him would likely be aware of the affect it
has on a person (they seemed to be quite experienced considering the police investigation
into them) and realise how much time they had. There was no need to rapidly empty the
account  and when they attempted to do this they were frustrated by the banks systems.
When considering the scenario Mr H explained  he was taken to a room which went
unnoticed by his remaining friend. So, I dont think the take and replace is relevant here as
it appears Mr H was under the control of staff members and isolated in a room. There didnt
need to be anything other than obtaining his phone and card to make these transactions
once they had control of him.
In summary  whilst the proper form and function were used to make these transactions, the
evidence Ive considered leads me to an objective conclusion that I think Mr H had no
intention of making these payments and, via various means, these payments were taken
against his wishes. Im currently of the opinion that I intend to uphold this complaint and
require Smile to repay the disputed transactions taken from that venue, which are all those
after the first payment (which Mr H accepts he made). Ill also be requiring Smile to add 8%
simple interest to the positive balance taken from the account and remove the overdraft plus
any charges or interest applied as a result of these transactions to put Mr H back in the
position he would have been had these transactions not taken place.
When Mr H brought his complaint to our service  he was only seeking a refund of the
disputed transactions. Ive thought about the issue of compensation and Im not currently
intending to recommend any. Thats because the issue of Mr Hs loss was the result of third
parties taking the money from his account. I recognise the difficulties Mr H faced dealing with
the problem, but any recommendations for further payments would have to be based on the
actions of Smile, rather than the overall situation Mr H found himself in.
Ill be happy to consider any further submissions regarding this, or any other aspect of the
complaint.
I invited Mr H and Smile to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr H accepted my provisional decision and Smile 
asked for disclosure of evidence which was provided to them. They also commented that:
Because Mr H was able to send a text, he was able to authorise transactions.Smile questioned the sequence of events around the friends attendance at the club 
and what happened afterwards.
Smile didnt think that Mr Hs version of the events was consistent.
Smile questioned why Mr H didnt report the matter to the police until they told him to.
Smile questioned why Mr H visited that particular club instead of a different one.
Smile questioned why Mr H didnt seek medical advice.
Smile thought the award of 8% interest would represent significant betterment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its apparent that Smile didnt believe Mr Hs version of events and they thought hed been 
able to authorise the transactions  which is why they held him responsible. Ive carefully 
considered the points raised by Smile in their further submission and its clear that this is a 
finely balanced complaint.
Regarding the additional points raised by Smile  Ill provide my thoughts about them here. 
But my focus is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it 
reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Overall, the evidence points to Mr H being influenced by something he was given during the 
night out. Its not possible to accurately assess what the ongoing affects on him were, but his 
performance the morning after when the call was made to Smile with his girlfriend showed 
that he was still recovering. Im not surprised that Mr Hs recollection of what happened was 
imperfect given I think he was probably drugged. 
Smile believed that the timing of his text meant that he was able to authorise transactions 
around that same time. Thats because he was able to compose a message and send it to 
his group. As Ive already explained, the message was poorly written which I think adds to 
Mr Hs version of events that he was under the influence of something at the time. Its not 
possible to determine his condition at any point during the visit after he was given the shot, 
but I think its reasonable to assume he probably had periods where he was conscious 
something was wrong  hence the text, but I dont think this points to him being conscious of 
what was happening to him in a broader sense. If Mr H was more aware  Id have expected 
him to leave the club or call his friends. He didnt do that , and I think this was because of the 
effect the shot had on him.
Smile thought the sequence of events surrounding the attendance of the club and when Mr 
Hs friends turned up wasnt accurate. I think whats relevant here is that Mr H was left alone 
in the club (despite what Smile believe happened) and he eventually left (or was put out by 
the staff when his accounts had been emptied). Whats apparent is that his friends were 
looking for him and had been in contact with the police, before finding him on the street.
I dont think the fact that Mr H hadnt personally reported the issue to the police when he 
spoke with Smile is particularly relevant here. I appreciate Smile thought he should have 
done, but as he was likely still suffering from the shot he was given, I can understand why he 
was still in his room recovering and trying to deal with the loss of his funds.
Smile commented that Mr H had a choice whether he entered the club or not. My understanding of what happened is that Mr H went to the club because another member of 
the party wanted to go, so he stayed with him until the friend went with a member of the staff 
to a private room. This left Mr H on his own  at which point he was given the shot. He 
wasnt aware of what was going to happen to him prior to entering the club and I think its 
worth reiterating that the loss of his funds was likely at the hands of a criminal enterprise.
I appreciate Smiles comments about Mr H not seeking medical attention. Ultimately it was 
his choice, so Ive had to consider what I think likely happened on the available evidence. It 
seems to me that Mr H was under the influence of something and his actions at the club 
(sending the text) and the manner in which the payments were taken and those that were 
declined  leads me to believe that Mr H wasnt in a position to know what was happening 
with his card and device  probably because he was given a substance. 
Smile believe the award of 8% simple interest would result in betterment for Mr H. Interest 
awards of this nature  here only for the positive balance on the account at the time ( Mr Hs 
own funds) seek to provide Mr H with an interest payment that recognises he was deprived 
of the use of those funds. The rate of 8% (simple per annum) is based on a similar award 
used by the civil courts. 
Having considered the comments and points made by Smile, I havent seen anything that 
would change the outcome of my provisional decision. I understand they have a different 
perspective on the events that happened at the club, but my assessment of Mr Hs complaint 
is that he was a victim rather than a willing participant  evidenced by the text he sent for 
help and the pattern of transactions made from his account.  So, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Smile should refund the disputed transactions which are all those taken at the venue apart 
from the first one. Smile should add simple interest at 8% per annum from the date of loss to 
the date repaid and remove the overdraft and any charges or interest related to it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc and 
theyre instructed to settle this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman