DRN-4280409
The complaint
Mr G and Miss H complain that Santander UK Plc have provided poor customer service and 
unnecessarily restricted their account on more than one occasion.
What happened
Santander wrote to both Mr G and Miss H separately on 25 August 2022 on Santander 
business banking letterhead paper, asking them to contact Santander or their joint account 
would be restricted, which it later was. In order to lift the restriction Mr G says it took him 
numerous times over five hours to get through to Santander. He says he was told to visit the 
branch and he took a day off, but it were unable to help, and it told him to upload the 
documents online and Mr G did this. 
Mr G and Miss H say Santander sent a further letter saying it had tried to contact them 
numerous times, but it hadnt and again it sent correspondence on business banking 
letterhead paper despite them holding a joint personal account. Miss H had to ring 
Santander for the portal link as they say Santander forgot to send it. Mr G and Miss H say 
that Santander restricted their account again without notice as it appeared it had not 
reviewed the information they sent it a month earlier, so the automatic block was applied. Mr 
G and Miss H made three complaints to Santander regarding these events. 
Santander upheld all three complaints, paying Mr G and Miss H a total of £300 (£100 on 7 
September 2022 for the first complaint, £150 on 9 November 2022 for the second complaint, 
and £50 on 21 November 2022 for the third complaint). It said it mistakenly set up the 
request for additional information as a company and not an individual, therefore the business 
letterhead paper was used in error. It apologised for the confusion of the letters and the time 
they spent trying to contact it to establish the validity of the letters sent to Mr G and Miss H. 
Santander said that while the blocks had now been removed from the account, the lack of 
communication and clarity from it had been unacceptable. It acknowledged and apologised 
for the poor service it provided Mr G and Miss H and the time they spent attempting to sort 
the issue out. Mr G and Miss H brought their complaints to our service.
Our investigator said she thought the £300 Santander paid Mr G and Miss H was fair as this 
recognised the impact of the events and is in line with the level of award our service would 
recommend in these circumstances. Mr G and Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review 
their complaints. Mr G told us how much he charges for work per hour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have a legal and regulatory requirement to know your customer. As such, it may 
ask for information from its customer(s) which could appear to be intrusive or ask for 
identification documents. But this does not mean that Santander have done anything wrong 
in asking for further information. And the terms of the account allow it to do this. 
But here, Santander let Mr G and Miss H down a number of times over an approximate two 
month period. It didnt act on the information it was provided, which it had asked for and it 
caused Mr G and Miss H inconvenience. The request for additional information was set up 
incorrectly, causing business banking letterheaded paper to be sent to Mr G and Miss H. 
This caused distress and inconvenience as they had to try and find out the validity of the 
correspondence. Mr G and Miss H spent many hours on the phone to Santander. Mr G was 
directed to the branch to provide documentation, only for it to inform him that it couldnt help 
him. The branch staff should have done more here, such as take a copy of the identification, 
and/or make a call to the relevant department to see what needed to be done or upload the 
documents for Mr G.
Santander also did not act on the information it was provided from Mr G which meant the 
account was restricted regardless. This would have been distressing for Mr G and Miss H, 
who had already been inconvenienced by Santanders actions leading up to this happening, 
and they would have been under the impression that everything was in order prior to the 
restriction being placed on the account. Santanders errors impacted their Christmas 
shopping when their account was restricted again, and alternative arrangements needed to 
be made by Mr G and Miss H. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. While Ive considered 
what Mr G has said about how much he earns on an hourly basis, our service would treat all 
complainants fairly regardless of their hourly earnings. Im not persuaded it was 
proportionate for Mr G to take a full day off work, even though Santander asked him to visit a 
branch, so I wont be asking Santander to pay any lost wages for this. Instead, Ive looked at 
the impact of the situation as a whole. Santander have paid Mr G and Miss H a total of £300 
for what happened. This is in line with our guidelines for compensation for what happened 
here. Had Santander not upheld the complaints, then £300 is the compensation I would have 
awarded Mr G and Miss H. Im persuaded this reflects the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience of Santanders actions on Mr G and Miss H. As Santander have already paid 
£300 to Mr G and Miss H, it follows that I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman