DRN-1719869
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that MYJAR Limited gave him loans that he couldnt afford. The complaint 
has been brought to this service on Mr Ps behalf by a claims management company. But for 
ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr P. 
What happened
Mr P took out eight short term loans with MYJAR. Loans 1 to 5 and 7 were repayable by one 
repayment. Loans 6 and 8 were repayable by 12 monthly instalments. All the loans have 
been repaid. Mr Ps loan history is as follows:-
 
 
Loan number Date of Loan Loan amount Repayment date
      1. 15/8/2015 £100 8/9/2015
      2. 13/9/2015 £100 26/9/2015
      3. 9/10/2015 £100 16/10/2015
4.  11/12/2015 £125 12/1/2016
5.  8/6/2016 £150 9/4/2016
6.  22/5/2016 £400 2/9/2016
7.  10/10/2016 £150 20/10/2016
8.  25/1/2017 £300 5/4/2017
 
MYJAR said that it had conducted appropriate affordability checks and believed that its 
checks were proportionate and adequate. It had asked Mr P for his income and regular 
expenditure (housing costs, other credit commitments and any other expenditure) and 
conducted a credit check. It also took into account Mr Ps borrowing from other lenders. It 
told this service that Mr P had paid seven loans early and one was repaid on the due date. 
There were also gaps between the loans.
our adjudicators viewThe adjudicator recommended that the complaint about Loans 5 to 8 should be upheld. He 
didnt think Loans 5 to 8 should have been agreed as the overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested that Mr P had become persistently reliant on short term loans. 
MYJAR disagreed and responded to say that the adjudicators view lacked an explanation of 
how hed reached his conclusions or that hed reviewed its business file. MYJAR also said 
that there were large gaps between Mr Ps loans which hadnt been taken into consideration. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to MYJAR on 31 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when MYJAR lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important to say that MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr P could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it made before lending to Mr P. Id noted from 
MYJARs records that it had details of Mr Ps income as well as details about his housing 
costs, other monthly expenses and other credit commitments. 
Id also noted that MYJAR had carried out credit checks and Id seen a summary of its credit 
checks. 
Wed not received a credit report from Mr P so I wasnt aware of anything on that which 
might have caused MYJAR additional concerns. 
Id thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Loans 1 to 3 
were each for £100. Id noted that for Loans 1 to 3, Mr P needed to make one repayment. 
The highest repayment was £127.20. I could see that the repayments were relatively modest 
compared to the income of £1,500 Mr P had declared to MYJAR.   
Id noted that MYJARs credit checks for Loans 1 to 3 showed Mr P had opened up to four 
new accounts in the previous three months and that his unsecured loan balances were 
estimated to be £2,850. I could see that Mr Ps other borrowing might have suggested to 
MYJAR that his finances were under pressure. But overall I didnt think the repayment 
amounts on Loans 1 to 3 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr P financial 
difficulty.
On balance, I thought that the checks MYJAR had carried out before agreeing 
Loans 1 to 3 were proportionate. Given Mr Ps repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 3, what 
was apparent about his circumstances at the time, and that these were his first loans with 
the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to have asked him for the 
amount of information that would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr P provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to 
Mr P.
Mr P repaid Loans 1 to 3 early. He then took out Loan 4 around two months after Loan 3 
was repaid. The loan amount had increased to £125 with a repayment amount of £165. I 
could see that the repayment was still relatively modest compared to the income of £1,500 
Mr P had declared to MYJAR.   
Mr Ps declared income was still £1,500, although his declared expenditure had increased to 
£790. His declared expenditure now included credit and other expenditure which hadnt been 
shown in MYJARs documents for his previous loans. MYJARs credit checks showed that 
Mr P had taken out 13 new accounts in the previous three months. I thought that MYJARs 
credit checks here might have suggested that Mr P was facing financial problems. The 
lender should have checked whether Mr P had other short term debts that might have 
impacted on his ability to repay Loan 4. So I thought it would have been proportionate for 
MYJAR to have supplemented the information it held by asking Mr P some more detailed 
questions, such as whether he was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same 
time. I would normally have looked at the borrowers credit report and bank statements to see 
what proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ps credit 
report or bank statements for the month before Loan 4. Id noted that the adjudicator had 
asked Mr P for these documents in July 2019 so hed had ample time to provide these. So I 
couldnt say that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks, it would have found that Mr P 
couldnt afford to repay Loan 4 sustainably. So I couldnt say that MYJAR was wrong to give 
Loan 4 to Mr P. 
Loan 4 was repaid early. And around three months later Mr P took out Loan 5. The loan 
amount had increased to £150 and Mr Ps declared expenditure had increased to £820. 
MYJARs credit check showed that Mr P had opened nine new accounts in the previous 
three months and his estimated unsecured debt had increased to £4,740. In view of this 
increased borrowing and as Loan 5 was Mr Ps fifth loan from MYJAR in around eight 
months, I thought MYJAR might have been concerned that Mr P was struggling to manage 
his finances.
So I didnt think it was reasonable for MYJAR to base its assessment before Loan 5 on the 
information provided by Mr P without taking steps to independently check what hed 
declared. I thought it might have been proportionate at this time for MYJAR to have 
independently reviewed the true state of Mr Ps finances. This was to make sure Mr P was in 
a position to make his loan repayment sustainably. As far as I could see MYJAR didnt do 
this. So I needed to think about what MYJAR wouldve seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
I would have normally looked at the borrowers bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ps bank statements for the 
month before Loan 5 to see what proportionate checks would have shown. So I couldnt say 
that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks, it would have found that Mr P couldnt afford 
to repay Loan 5 sustainably. So I couldnt say that MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 5 to 
Mr P.
Id looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending with Mr P to see if there was a point at 
which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I thought that this point was 
reached by Loan 6. I said this because:
By Loan 6, Mr P had been borrowing from MYJAR for almost nine months.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts he owed MYJAR. The loan 
amount of £400 for Loan 6 was the highest amount that hed borrowed during his 
borrowing history with it. The loan was to be repaid over twelve months. Although the 
amounts that Mr P needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a 
normal payday loan, he was committing to making those repayments over a far 
longer period.
Although there were some gaps of up to three months between loans being repaid 
and a new loan being taken out, I didnt think it would have been reasonable for 
MYJAR to have concluded that these gaps were any indication that Mr Ps finances 
had moved on from whatever situation had required his previous loans.
All of Mr Ps previous loans had been repaid early. I thought the fact that Mr P had 
paid his loans earlier than planned should have caused some concerns to MYJAR. I 
thought that might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was 
facing problems managing their money and needed to take out loans on a regular 
basis.
 I could see that as MYJAR didnt stop lending at this point, Mr P went on to take out another 
two loans. I thought that Mr P had lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing 
from Loan 6 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans. 
The fact that all the loans were repaid didnt mean that they were repaid sustainably, 
or without causing Mr P undue difficulty. 
 
Id noted that MYJAR had said that the adjudicators view lacked explanation of how hed 
reached his conclusions and that it had failed to mention that hed reviewed its business file. 
Id said that Id considered the information it provided to us in its business file and its credit 
checks. Id referred to this in some detail for its earlier loans.
But I said that I hadnt recreated affordability assessments of the loans in dispute. This was 
because I thought the number of loans and the pattern of lending here were of concern. 
Id also thought that when a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, 
it was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As MYJAR knew, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of 
high cost lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of 
unsustainable lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So I said that I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and that MYJAR should put 
things right as shown below. Id also said that Mr P was welcome to send this service his 
bank statements and his credit report for the month before Loans 3 and 4. And if he did so, I 
would reconsider these loans before reaching my final decision.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
Refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on Loans 6 to 8 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 8 from Mr Ps credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Both Mr P and MYJAR responded to my provisional decision to say that they accepted my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Given that both Mr P and MYJAR have accepted my provisional decision and given me 
nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require MYJAR to take 
the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order MYJAR to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on Loans 6 to 8 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and
2. Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 8 from Mr Ps credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman