DRN-2052076
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the handling of her claim by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. She 
says Aviva has delayed the claim unfairly and thinks it should be accepted. 
What happened
Our Investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think Aviva 
had intended to delay Mrs Rs claim or treat her differently from anyone else. 
Mrs R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review this complaint. She felt Aviva had 
treated her unfairly and had caused avoidable delays. As a result, she said her claim should 
be accepted and she should receive some compensation. 
I reviewed the file and felt Aviva had caused some delays. But I also felt it had fairly waited 
for a response from a private practice Mrs R visited in Poland in October 2018 before it could 
fairly assess the claim in full. I asked Aviva to pay Mrs R £250 in recognition of the delays it 
had caused. Aviva agreed with my initial thoughts. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She says she has now provided everything she can to Aviva so the claim 
should now be accepted. She added that she was concerned Aviva would now continue to 
delay her claim unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint in part. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, including the further information from Mrs R. But Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs R said the tests in October 2018 were done in a private practice and she doesnt have 
any more information to provide. Having considered when Mrs R took out this policy and 
when her appointment at the private practice in Poland took place, I can understand why 
Aviva asked to see if more information is being held by the private practice. Aviva asked the 
practice in Poland when the appointment was booked and if a questionnaire was completed 
upon arrival. I dont consider this to be an unreasonable request in the circumstances. So, I 
can understand why Aviva hasnt yet reached a decision on this claim. 
Ive taken into consideration Avivas handling of the whole claim. And this service will always 
look into the reasons behind the delays and whether Aviva couldve done more. I also want 
to point out that claims which involve chasing medical practitioners both inside and outside 
of the UK can take time to consider. So, the fact this claim is still being considered doesnt 
necessarily mean Mrs R is entitled to compensation. 
Mrs R has asked if I can confirm what a fair timeline would be for Aviva to consider this claim 
further. Im afraid I cant say what a reasonable amount of time would be from now for Aviva 
to further consider and make a decision on this claim. Aviva has said it has chased the 
private practice in July 2020 by e-mail and it has contacted Mrs Rs IFA to see if there are 
any other contact details available. It has also said it will look to see if it can reconsider the 
claim with the information it has. If Mrs R remains unhappy with the length of time her claim 
is taking, she should speak to Aviva in the first instance and raise a separate complaint.   
Putting things right
Im still satisfied that not all of the delays here were Avivas fault. And I still consider that the 
£250 Aviva has now agreed to offer for the delays it caused, is fair and reasonable and in 
line with awards this service has made in similar cases. I would like to reassure Mrs R that if 
she does decide to accept the £250 offered by Aviva this doesnt mean it can continue to 
unreasonably delay her claim in the future. 
So, Im satisfied the information Aviva requested in order to fully consider this claim was fair. 
But Aviva has caused avoidable delays, so it should pay Mrs R £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld in part. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mrs R £250 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman