DRN-2650140
The complaint
Mrs G complains (on behalf of herself and the estate of her late husband, Mr G) that Lloyds 
Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different business name) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in March 2000. This 
protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr G couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs G mainly said that she and her late husband had felt pressured by Lloyds sales advisor 
into taking out the PPI when told that the mortgage they wanted was only available if they 
took out PPI. Mrs G says they needed to arrange the mortgage quickly in order to secure the 
house they wanted. So her husband took out the PPI, although this left him feeling very 
angry as he didnt think PPI was needed when he already had excellent work benefits. And 
given a choice, Mrs G is very clear that they wouldnt have chosen to pay for PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Id like to reassure Mrs G that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. So Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mrs G is sure about everything shes told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mrs G to be able to remember exactly what was discussed when this policy was 
taken out so long ago. And what Mrs G says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint. Where the information is incomplete, as some of it is here, I must 
make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all 
the information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking about what 
we know about these types of sales at that time. This means making some reasonable 
assumptions where theres only limited information. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G a choice about taking 
out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr G wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage without their agreement. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment which they expected to 
pay back over a number of years. Mr and Mrs Gs home wouldve been at risk if their 
mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and it looks to 
me as if Mr and Mrs G couldve found PPI useful if theyd needed to claim. So I can see why 
they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for them.  
I dont know how Lloyds presented or explained PPI to Mrs G. But in order to take out the 
policy, Mr G had to fill in his details and sign a separate PPI application form. I've seen the 
application Mr G completed  he indicated how much cover was needed and that he wanted 
to have all the benefit of the policy in his name. 
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs G were anxious to obtain the mortgage they wanted without 
delay. But, after filling in all the paperwork to start the application process, it looks like there 
was a gap of several months between Mr G applying for the PPI (on 12 October 1999) and 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage starting in March 2000. So, if PPI wasnt something theyd wanted, 
there wouldve been plenty of time for Mr and Mrs G to make further enquires to check 
whether they had to have it with their mortgage - without any risk of delaying their 
application. I havent seen anything to make me think that happened.
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs G not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it. And on balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI 
offered them and they chose to buy the policy to cover Mr G  even if Mrs G has forgotten 
this now.  
Lloyds advisor recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs G  and this may well be the meeting 
Mrs G recalls when PPI was discussed. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Ive looked carefully at what Mrs G told us about their situation at the time to see if PPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs G when they took out this mortgage.  
It looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what Mrs G has 
said about their circumstances at the time. 
Mr G was eligible for the PPI policy. 
The policy paid a monthly benefit that covered Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage repayments and 
included an extra amount which Mr and Mrs G couldve used to help pay household bills. It 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G had an accident or was too sick or 
disabled to work.
I've taken into account that Mr G was entitled to 6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay 
for 6 months from his employer. 
Mrs G told us further time was negotiable after this if Mr G was still off sick. 
But this doesnt mean PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G. The PPI was guaranteed for up 
to 12 months per claim and it wouldve paid out in full and on top of any work benefits providing useful help at what mightve a difficult time, especially if Mr G mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being off work as a result of illness or with a disability. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs G mentioned there was a possibility of discretionary sick pay 
potentially being paid over and above this. But Im looking at Mr Gs contractual entitlement  
because thats all Mr and Mrs G could safely rely on when Mr G took out the PPI. Relying on 
an employer to pay sick pay when it doesn't have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI 
which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a successful claim.
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr G lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
There was no guarantee when Mrs G took out this mortgage that they would always have 
savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And, if they didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of the mortgage, 
perhaps because they preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial security or to 
spend on other things, then I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. 
Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs G could be sure theyd be able to pay the mortgage each 
month without breaking into savings.  
And the PPI wouldve covered their mortgage monthly repayments for longer than its likely 
the amount of savings theyve mentioned wouldve lasted if Mr and Mrs G had found they 
needed to rely on their savings to cover outgoings if Mr G wasnt able to work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy  so it couldve provided long-term protection 
for their mortgage while Mr and Mrs G were paying for their home.
Looking at what Mrs G has told me about their circumstances at the time, it looks like Mr G 
was the main earner. So I dont know how easy it wouldve been for Mrs G to keep up the 
mortgage monthly repayments for very long if Mr G couldnt work. It looks like losing his 
income wouldve had a significant detrimental impact on their joint household finances  and 
that seems to be borne out by what happened when Mr G lost his job and Mrs G told us she 
applied for benefits to help out with their household finances. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs G with their mortgage was suitable for 
them. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover  it mightve been difficult for 
someone doing only limited part time hours to claim for unemployment and existing medical 
conditions mightnt have been fully covered. But as Mrs G told us Mr G was in good health 
when he took out the policy and he had a full time job then I don't think any of the main 
policy limitations are likely to have affected Mr G. 
So I dont think being given clearer information about the policy exclusions and limitation 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs G off taking it out as Mr G could potentially have taken advantage 
of all the main benefits the policy offered. 
I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. I can see that a few weeks after they moved 
into their new house, Lloyds sent Mr G details of the PPI and explained that he could cancel 
at no cost within 30 days if it wasnt something he wanted. I dont know when (or if) that letter 
reached Mr G as it looks like it was addressed to Mr Gs previous address. But as 
Mr and Mrs G paid for this policy each month they wouldve always been able to cancel it at 
any time without incurring any extra cost if they didnt want to continue paying for it. And it looks like the policy was in fact cancelled just a couple of months after it started (in 
June 2000) after the payment arrangements Mr and Mrs G had set up at their bank to pay 
for it were cancelled. 
Taking everything into account I think the policy couldve been potentially useful if 
Mr and Mrs G had needed to claim  and I think Mr and Mrs G thought this too at the time 
since it looks like they contacted Lloyds in June 2000 about claiming on the policy when 
Mr G was made redundant and became unwell. I dont know if that claim was successful or if 
the policy had by then been cancelled due to non-payment. But it makes no overall 
difference to the outcome of this mis-sale complaint because Im looking at what happened 
when Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs G the policy  and what happened later doesnt affect this.  
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mrs G told us, including what 
she has said in response to the adjudicators assessment. But, on balance, I dont find 
theres enough information for me to be able to say that Mr and Mrs G lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds did wrong when it sold them this PPI. So it doesnt need to do anything to 
put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman