DRN-3589974
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly 
treated them in relation to a claim made under their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs W, or RSA includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs Ws home suffered an ingress of water damage.
They contacted RSA to make a claim. RSA appointed drainage specialists (Company 
A) to investigate, attending the property in March 2020. 
Company A reported it would need to carry out further investigations but Mr and Mrs 
W declined this. Having their own contractors review the damage and submitting 
respective costs for RSA to settle to a sum of around £40,000. They said RSA had 
caused extensive delays so they were left to arrange repairs of the drains themselves 
so RSA should cover this.
Following some back and forth, Company A produced a report describing the cause 
of the flooding in this case to be as a result of exhausted soakaways, an incorrectly 
fitted plastic pipe, amongst other issues. Recommending the claim be repudiated.
RSA issued a final response letter in April 2021. It said Mr and Mrs W had appointed 
contractors to begin investigation works prior to involving RSA. And Company A had 
acted reasonably seeking to investigate the site on a number of occasions. It agreed 
with Company As findings, and said the policy would not cover wear and tear, faulty 
design or poor workmanship, or any betterment. 
RSA agreed to cover some of the investigation costs of Mr and Mrs Ws contractor, 
but not any trace and access costs as it said these werent necessary to progress the 
claim. RSA acknowledged some handing issues and delays, awarding £600 in 
compensation. And in May 2021 RSA issued a further final response, in which it 
declined to cover costs for a surveyor, saying this was in line with the policy terms.
Our Investigator looked into what happened, concluding RSA didnt have to do 
anything further. 
oDrainage damage: he said Company As report was detailed and persuasive, 
with its findings reflecting age related issues or faulty design. And while there 
may have been accidental damage, this would be excluded if it happens 
gradually  as it did here. He said there was no conflicting expert evidence to 
dispute this. So, he said RSA had repudiated the claim fairly.
oTrace and access: Company A had been clear the trace and access works 
that Mr and Mrs W are seeking costs for were not necessary nor did they 
progress the claim. Company A said it wouldnt need to consider water 
entering the basement under trace and access as it related to a blockage.
oSurveyor fees: Mr and Mrs Ws appointed surveyors costs were never agreed 
with RSA in advance, and their work amounted to preparing a claim or an 
estimate of lost which was specifically excluded under the policy.
oOngoing issues/issues since May 2021: our Investigator explained these 
would need to be addressed with RSA in the first instance.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, stating:
oThey had carried out extensive investigations by the time Company A sought 
to carry out its second visit and had denied these at the time as they believed 
them to be an unnecessary expense and effort in light of available evidence.
oWhen considering evidence, this Service should factor that Company A was 
not an independent expert and acting as a loss adjuster for RSA.
oThey had believed they would be granted cover to investigate the source of 
water  and Company As position to not be necessary for blockages should 
be clearly outlined in the policy should RSA want to fairly rely on that 
approach. In addition, Company A had made use of Mr and Mrs Ws drainage 
investigations so should be considered important in progressing the claim.
oTheir report demonstrated the propertys drainage was complex and given 
some of the drains were damaged, they had wanted to develop a clear 
understanding of the issues to avoid this happening again.
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. So, the matter has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not directing RSA to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws submissions to this service are extensive. I appreciate they have gone to 
great lengths to explain why they believe RSA has acted unfairly. My response within this 
decision may appear relatively succinct given the detail and efforts theyve gone to within 
their submission. This is not my intention but just the nature of the decision I have to make in 
this case.
Drainage damage: 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy contains exclusions for wear and tear, gradual damage, as 
well as faulty design or workmanship. RSA has declined the claim using these 
exclusions. The terms are clearly set out, and are common in policies of this nature.
So, Ive reviewed the relevant evidence to determine the most likely cause of 
damage, and in turn whether this is caught by this exclusion.
The reports and findings of the relevant specialists are well known. So, I wont repeat 
these here, beyond saying Company As findings found the damage in question to be 
as a result of failed soakaways and faulty workmanship. Its provided a detailed and 
thorough report on the damage in question.
Mr and Mrs W have said theyve been given no evidence to support that the cause of 
the issues is related to failed or exhausted soakaways, and describe Company As 
comments as conjecture. But Im not persuaded any of the reports and evidence theyve provided conflict with Company As position or demonstrate its conclusion is 
inaccurate  and which include specific comments about the failed soakaways. 
Mr and Mrs W have said this Service should consider Company A is not independent 
given its role for RSA. I can assure them Ive factored this into my considerations 
when weighing up the evidence in this case.
So, Im satisfied RSAs decision on the claim is fair and reasonable, and in line with 
the available evidence.
Trace and access:
Mr and Mrs Ws policy includes trace and access cover. The policy says it will cover 
the cost of finding the source of any water, oil, gas and liquified petroleum gas which 
has escaped from any fixed tanks, apparatus, pipes or any fixed domestic heating 
installation within the boundary of your home for which you are legally responsible.
I would comment that it is unusual for works under an insurance policy (particularly 
those of an extensive nature) to be carried out without the prior input and prior 
agreement of an insurer. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs W have said they believed they were entitled to claim for 
this type of trace and access and wanted to fully understand any issues to avoid 
them happening again. While I dont deny this was their goal, their actions would 
need to be aligned with the terms of the policy for the work to be covered. 
Here, RSA has agreed to cover some investigation costs which it considers 
necessary. But said it would not cover extensive excavation works carried out as this 
wasnt necessary for it to progress the claim. This is supported by Company As 
commentary. So, this suggests RSAs decision to not cover these additional costs 
was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W say the policy should clearly state if excavation/trace and access 
wouldnt apply to certain events. I wouldnt expect a policy book to cover off every 
scenario. And RSA has agreed to cover some of the investigation costs it deemed 
necessary. It strikes me the issue here is that Mr and Mrs W have made decisions of 
their own, without the agreement of RSA. And I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold RSA accountable for this in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W have made reference to Company A/RSA commenting on the findings 
of their own reports and investigations. I take this on board, but I dont think it follows 
that RSA considering and commenting on evidence means the evidence in question 
was necessary to obtain. And to the contrary, I wouldnt expect RSA to ignore 
evidence it has been presented with. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
Surveyor fees:
Mr and Mrs Ws policy says it will cover additional fees and costs which RSA has 
agreed to in writing for additional rebuilding expenses following loss or damage 
covered under the policy.
It also states that this does not cover any expenses for preparing a claim or an 
estimate of loss or damage. 
Here, RSA says the surveyor in question has confirmed their input was limited to 
reviewing issues on site, finding solutions and helping progression of insurance 
related matters. RSA says these actions amount to preparing a claim and therefore arent covered. 
On its face, Im in agreement the policy terms are clear and it seems the surveyors 
actions fall outside of the additional costs a policyholder may be able to claim for.
Mr and Mrs W have said they were told by their broker that their surveyors costs 
would be covered by RSA, contingent on RSAs liability for the claim being admitted. 
And theyve said as consumers they lacked the sufficient expertise to guarantee the 
ongoing health of the building to act without the surveyor.
RSA has said the brokers comments were limited to the proposed costs for the fees 
were reasonable and still subject to RSAs approval.
Even if I agreed RSA or its agents couldve been clearer here, I dont think it would 
be reasonable to conclude that RSA should therefore be liable for all of the 
surveyors costs as Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And I would note here Mr and 
Mrs Ws comments suggest they wouldve instructed this surveyor in any case given 
their feeling they were unable to handle the claim themselves. 
Ongoing issues/new issues/handling:
RSA has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
RSA has agreed its handling of this complaint shouldve been better than it was and 
has said it caused around three months of delay in total - awarding £600 in 
compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs W have suggested the delays were greater than this.
Having reviewed everything thats happened Im satisfied RSA didnt handle the 
claim as promptly as it shouldve done. And in places its communication couldve 
been better than it was. In light of the impact on Mr and Mrs W Im satisfied £600 is a 
fair and reasonable sum. So, Im not going to direct it to increase this.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman