DRN-3349804
The complaint
S complains about the decision of Markel International Insurance Company Limited to 
decline its business interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the relevant events. Ss insurance broker 
was also involved in some of the correspondence, but Ive just referred to Markel for the 
sake of simplicity. 
S operates as a childcare provider in Scotland and held a Nursery Insurance policy 
underwritten by Markel. The policy was taken out in March 2020, and the period of insurance 
began on 7 April 2020. S contacted Markel in late 2020 to claim for its losses. S apparently 
said that the reason for the late notification of the claim was that its staff had been 
furloughed. 
Markel declined the claim. It said that nurseries and out-of-school childcare providers, such 
as S, had been closed since 20 March 2020, following the First Ministers announcement on 
18 March 2020. As such, the cause of Ss claim pre-dated the start of its insurance policy 
with Markel and so was not covered under that policy.
It should be noted that S did hold a policy with a different insurer for the period up until 
6 April 2020. Our Service has dealt separately with a complaint about the decline of Ss 
claim under this policy and the outcome of that complaint is not directly relevant to this 
current complaint. I do though feel it is worth noting that the claim under that policy was for a 
period starting 23 March 2020. And that our investigation into that complaint concluded just 
prior to S contacting Markel to make this current claim and complaint. 
S was unhappy with Markels decision. It said that it was not financially impacted until after 
the Easter Holiday. S has indicated this is to do with the way its invoicing works and that it 
was closed for the Easter Holiday. 
When Markel didnt alter its decision, S referred its complaint to our Service. But our 
Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the insured event 
had seemingly happened prior to start of the policy, even though this may not have led to 
immediate financial loss. Our Investigator did ask S to confirm when it was closed for the 
Easter Holidays, but did not receive a response to this. 
S did though say that it remained unsatisfied with the outcome and so its complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on S, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
In essence, an insurance policy will provide cover against losses caused by certain events 
that take place during the period of insurance. There are some policies that provide after the 
event insurance, but these relate to specific issues, and S does not have one of these. In 
terms of a policy such as Ss, it is the date of the event, rather than the date of loss that is 
usually relevant  albeit this can depend on the policy wording and individual circumstances. 
The relevant part of Ss policy, the business interruption section, provides cover for loss of 
income as a result of a number of events. Much of the cover relates to the impact of damage 
to property, but that is not relevant to Ss claim as COVID-19 didnt cause damage which led 
to an interruption of Ss business. 
S's business was interrupted by the government-imposed restrictions that came into force on 
20 March 2020. This is the event potentially insured by the policy. So, it is the date the 
business was interrupted that is relevant to Ss claim. This is not necessarily the date money 
was due to be paid for the business that is normally provided. It is when that business 
cannot be provided due to an interruption caused by an insured peril.
I do note that many childcare providers similar to S may not operate over weekends. So, it 
may be that their business would not be interrupted until they would normally have opened. 
If this was the Monday following the introduction of the restrictions, that interruption would 
take place on 23 March 2020. But this date would still pre-date Ss policy by some time.
I also note that S has referred to the Easter Holidays. But it seems that the school out of 
which S operates had its Easter Holiday scheduled from 3 April 2020 to 20 April 2020. As 
such, but for the restrictions, the school would have been open from 23 March to 3 April. 
It may be that S operates a different schedule to the school it functions in, albeit this would 
seem unusual. However, I note that S made a claim for losses under its previous policy 
starting from 23 March 2020, which suggests to me that this was the date its business was 
first interrupted. And S has not responded to our Services request for clarity around these 
dates. 
Taking all of this into account, I consider it is more likely than not that Ss business was 
interrupted from 23 March 2020. It is the date of this first interruption that is relevant to the 
claim in the circumstances of this particular complaint, as this is the date of the cause of the 
financial losses that arose. As this date was prior to the commencement of Ss policy with 
Markel, I dont consider it would be fair to hold Markel liable for the losses related to this 
claim. So, I am satisfied Markels decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, 
and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
I know this decision will be disappointing for S, but I hope Ive provided it and its directors 
with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman