DRN-3342155
The complaint
Mr G complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr G as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableDate repaid
9/04/2018 £3,000 48 months £87.94 £4,221.32. Still outstanding
When Mr G complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating 
what AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
Mr G was happy with our adjudicators recommendations. AvantCredit disagreed. It mainly 
said that using the loan for debt consolidation  in other words, to repay other debt  
couldve benefitted Mr G and improved his financial situation. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide the loan. 
AvantCredit took steps to verify Mr Gs declared income and recorded that his pay was 
around £1,550 per month. AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks to 
understand his credit history and current credit commitments. 
I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mr G applied for this loan, 
the credit report it obtained for him showed that he had already opened one new credit 
account within the previous 3 months and during this period there had been an increase in 
the balances on four of his accounts. It was apparent that he had made a substantial number 
of minimum monthly repayments to his credit cards  121 in the last 3 years. And he had 
been relying on his credit cards for cash advances which is a particularly expensive way to 
obtain spending money  including using them to obtain £2,580 cash within the last 
12 months. 
AvantCredits checks showed that Mr Gs debt repayments amounted to around a third of his 
declared income. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Gs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for AvantCredit to make a fair decision to 
lend.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that the indications were that Mr G wasnt managing 
his money well and he was already struggling financially. All the signs were that his finances 
were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had become unmanageable. I dont 
think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Mr G 
would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Mr G 
was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr G needed to pay a 
significant portion of his income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, 
AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mr G would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 48 month loan term.
I've taken into account that AvantCredit understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But AvantCredit didnt have control over how Mr G used the loan as it paid the 
loan balance to him. Having seen the extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive 
credit, I think it was apparent that there was a real risk Mr G would use the loan to meet his 
immediate financial demands. And even if Mr G had used this loan to repay some existing 
debt, I dont think AvantCredit had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his 
overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
financial situation  given his outstanding indebtedness overall and reliance on using credit 
cards  which of course would make available more credit if he paid the balances down. So, all the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. 
For these reasons, Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr G 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr G sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay
whilst its fair that Mr Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman