DRN-4235569
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Gold 
account, which looks to have been sold to her around 1998.
Miss K has given a number of reasons why she says the account was mis-sold, these 
include that she was told the account was a privilege to have, it included a number of 
benefits which she qualified for that were not available on a standard fee-free account. Miss 
K says she was told it would be beneficial for her and that she would benefit from a Gold 
card, an increased overdraft and other benefits. 
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that the account had been mis-
sold.
Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, 
as is the case here, I need to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything 
that is available. And having considered everything, I dont think the account was mis-sold. I 
will explain why.
Miss K says that she was told that upgrading to a fee-paying Gold account was her only way 
of obtaining an increased overdraft. 
Unfortunately, I have no information about Miss Ks account prior to the sale of the Gold 
account. For example, its not clear if there was an arranged overdraft facility in place, or if it 
had been changed in the years prior to the sale of the Gold account. But Miss K has helpfully 
been able to provide statements from 1998, and it appears that the Gold account was sold to 
Miss K around that time. 
I know that at that time, the account provided a £100 interest free facility, with preferential 
rates of interest on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to the agreed limit). Also, by 
having the account  which cost £8 per month at the time - Miss K would avoid paying a £5 
monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable on fee-free accounts).
Its clear from the available bank statements that Miss K was regularly operating her account 
overdrawn. As Miss K used her overdraft most months, this essentially meant that Miss K 
was able to have all the benefits of the Gold account (which included lower overdraft 
interest), but for only £3 more per month than what she wouldve had to pay in monthly 
overdraft usage fees on a standard fee-free account. 
Im also mindful that if Miss K had explained during the sale that she wanted to increase her 
overdraft limit in the future. In the circumstances, I think its likely that Miss K was sold the 
account because of the overdraft benefits it included, rather than it being the case that it was 
presented as being her only option. I say this because the larger the arranged overdraft, the 
more likely it is that the overdraft savings would outweigh the £3 extra per month she was 
having to pay for the account (compared to if shed continued with a standard fee-free 
account). 
I would also point out that apart from Mrs K testimony, there is no other evidence to suggest 
that it was presented as being her only option in this case. It is also the case when 
considering Miss Ks testimony, that I cant ignore the fact that her recollections relate to a 
conversation she had with her bank around 25 years ago. And recollections can change and 
fade over time. 
In addition to the banking benefits, from around 1998, I know that one of the key insurance 
benefits included with the account was worldwide travel insurance. I can see that there is 
evidence of travel on Miss Ks bank statement. So I cant rule out the possibility that this 
mayve been another benefit of the account that Miss K wouldve possibly been able to use 
as well.
So when deciding what I think is most likely the case, with the evidence that I have been 
provided, I think its more likely Miss K agreed to the account because she was attracted to 
the benefits it provided, rather than because she thought she had no choice in the matter. 
I say this bearing in mind that Miss K downgraded her account back to a fee-free account in 
2000 - yet was able to keep the increased overdraft limit of £1,300. But if Miss K had been 
misled into thinking that she had to upgrade to a Gold account to get an increased overdraft 
limit in 1998, I question why she didnt raise this with Lloyds at the time that she 
downgraded. 
So taking everything into account, on balance, Im unable to conclude that the Gold account 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman