DRN-3264958
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release lifetime mortgage application that Mr R made to 
Nationwide Building Society. Mr R says delays on Nationwides part has left him on a 
higher interest rate than he could have secured if the mortgage had completed in a 
reasonable timeframe. Hes seeking compensation for the extra interest that will roll up 
(and compound) over the life of the mortgage.
In this transaction, Nationwide instructed a firm of solicitors Ill call E, and some of the 
activities Ill refer to below were carried out by E. However, for simplicitys sake, Ill refer at 
all times to Nationwide, as anything E did was as Nationwides agent.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to both parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr R 
being identified. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. My remit is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
Mr R first approached Nationwide about the mortgage in the summer of 2020; one of the 
aims of taking the lifetime mortgage was to repay his existing traditional mortgage with a 
lender Ill call N. In September 2020, Nationwide issued a mortgage offer on a fixed rate of 
2.68%, but it realised that the property wasnt freehold as first thought, rather it was 
leasehold with an absentee freeholder. This required Mr R, through his own solicitor, to 
provide an indemnity, which took until November 2020, by which time the original valuation 
had expired. 
The new valuation came back higher than before, so Mr R asked if he could borrow more. 
This necessitated a new application, and Nationwide issued a second offer in February 
2021; this time the interest rate was 2.78%, and the offer was valid until 16 April 2021. Mr R 
was required to have independent legal advice before the mortgage could complete. 
Nationwide explained to his solicitor on 16 March 2021 that the advice needed to be given 
by video conference; it received the certificate confirming this had happened on 8 April 2021. 
A redemption statement was ordered from N, but by the time it arrived, Nationwide didnt 
have time to complete the mortgage and issue the funds before the offer expired on 
16 April 2021. This meant another application had to be processed, and another valuation 
carried out. An offer was issued on 25 May 2021; the rate was now 3.18%, and the 
mortgage duly completed. 
When Mr R complained, Nationwide offered him £350 compensation and agreed to cover 
the extra interest hed paid on the old mortgage with N between October 2020 and February 
2021. But it rejected his claim that it was at fault for the February 2021 offer not completing. 
It said that was largely down to how long it took Mr Rs solicitor to certify the independent 
legal advice. It also rejected his claim that it unreasonably delayed asking for the redemption 
statement from N.
Our investigator initially recommended the complaint be upheld, but after further reflection, 
agreed that Nationwides position was reasonable, and that its settlement offer was fair. 
Mr R asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Nationwide to pay Mr R the 
compensation hes seeking, I have to be satisfied that Nationwide unduly and excessively 
delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay was the 
sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mr R, without any outside 
factors contributing. Looking at the overall progression of the case, Im not persuaded that 
the latter applies. 
Nationwide has said the September 2020 offer (the one with the rate Mr R believes he 
should have) was issued in error because it hadnt sorted out the indemnity. Thats as may 
be; but whether in error or not, the issuing of that offer doesnt mean Mr R became entitled to 
that rate. In any event, the time taken to obtain the indemnity (which was outside 
Nationwides control) meant a new valuation was always going to be needed, and Mr R 
benefitted from that because it allowed him to borrow more. 
The second offer in February 2021 superseded the September 2020 offer; it was for more 
money, but by then, the rate had changed. Nationwide accepted the second offer could have 
been issued sooner, and the offer it has made to compensate Mr R for that is fair, in my 
view.
Just as the September 2020 offer didnt entitle Mr R to borrow at 2.68%, the February 2021 
offer didnt entitle him to borrow at 2.78%. Hed only become entitled to that rate if the 
mortgage offered in February 2021 completed and the funds were drawn down. For that to 
happen, he first needed to satisfy all of Nationwides conditions, and the one that held 
everything up was the requirement that independent legal advice be given by video 
conference. Mr R says he only found out about this from Nationwide on 26 March 2021. That 
might be true, but Nationwide had informed his solicitor of the requirement ten days before 
that.Mr D also says Nationwide neednt have waited until after it had received certification of the 
independent legal advice before requesting the redemption statement, as these are valid for 
thirty days. I understand his point of view, but dont share it. Unless and until Nationwide had 
received the certificate from Mr Rs solicitor, it couldnt make any assumption about when, or 
even whether, the mortgage might complete. If it had requested a redemption statement that 
later turned out to be premature, it would have needed to request a second one, slowing 
things down even further.
Mr R says Nationwide was slow to request the redemption statement. But the timing of the 
certificate being received, combined with Ns normal service level for issuing statements and 
Nationwides normal service level for drawing down funds meant there was never going to 
be enough working days available to complete the mortgage on the terms of the 
February 2021 offer before it expired on 16 April 2021. Thats hugely frustrating for Mr R, of 
that Ive no doubt; but its not Nationwides fault.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr R to decide if, on further reflection, he wishes to 
accept Nationwides settlement offer for the problems between the first and second offer. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman