DRN-3286061
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the poor customer service they received from Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva), following a claim under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs K contacted Aviva to report a leak. It initially organised for a 
contractor to attend but this appointment failed, as did the next appointment. Then Aviva 
sent a plumber, but Mr and Mrs K said that they thought the leak was coming from the roof. 
So, Aviva (a few days later) sent a roofer, but he attended their home too late in the day and 
nothing was done to fix the leak. 
It wasnt until a few weeks later that another engineer was sent, and a temporary repair was 
carried out. But by this time Mr and Mrs K said that further damage had been caused to 
other parts of their home. 
Mr and Mrs K complained to Aviva about the delays and poor customer service. Aviva sent a 
loss adjuster to inspect one room in the home and wouldnt look at the other damage, so Mr 
and Mrs K made a further complaint.  
In its first final response dated 12 October 2020, Aviva accepted that there had been poor 
customer service issues and delays. So offered compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused of £105. 
In February 2021, Aviva were further contacted as Mr and Mrs K said that there were still 
outstanding issues with the roof. They had obtained quotes to fix the roof from up to £4,700. 
But thought it could cost between £800 to £1,200 to repair. 
Aviva had obtained a scope of works and offered the recommended amount of £333.14, by 
way of a cash settlement. But Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy and having received their 
referral rights, referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that effectively there were two areas of damage, with the first concerning the roof. Mr 
and Mrs K had been given Avivas final response which investigated the delays and poor 
customer service regarding the damaged roof, on 12 October 2020. In the referral rights 
given, they had six months in which to refer a complaint to our service. The complaint was 
referred on 17 June 2021 and so more than the six-month rule. He said that he couldnt find 
any exceptional circumstances and as such, he was unable to consider this part of the 
complaint. 
The second area of damage related to a room in the home. Our investigators view was that 
because Aviva couldnt be sure how much damage had been caused by the original leak or 
how much consequential damage had been caused by the delay, it paid the total amount 
suggested by the scope of works. Which our investigator thought was fair. He concluded that 
he couldnt reasonably ask Aviva to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr and Mrs K did not. They said that they had been trying to see if 
there was legal cover on their policy and this was the reason for the delay in submitting a 
complaint to our service. Also, Aviva hadnt carried out any full investigation and there were 
still outstanding issues. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs K have made a few detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
The main issues of this complaint are whether Im able to consider the claim regarding the 
roof and whether the response from Aviva regarding the leak into other parts of their home, 
was fair. 
Our rules say that, without business consent, I cant consider a complaint which is referred to 
this service more than six months after the date the business sends its final response letter 
to the customer. This rule is called Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1). It can be found in 
the regulators handbook of rules and guidance (available on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) website. 
Mr and Mrs K received a final response from Aviva regarding the leaking roof, dated 12 
October 2020. The letter stated that Mr and Mrs K had six months from the date of the letter 
to refer the complaint to our service. So, Mr and Mrs K wouldve had until 12 April 2021 to 
refer the complaint to our service but didnt refer the complaint until 17 June 2021. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs K said that they were in the process of seeking legal advice, 
regarding what they felt was Avivas failure to take appropriate emergency cover action and 
that this took a lot of time.  In exceptional circumstances, I can help with complaints that are 
referred outside the usual time limits. So, Ive carefully considered the points raised by Mr 
and Mrs K.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs K continued to correspond with Aviva during the time when they 
couldve referred their complaint to this service and for this reason, I cant say that there 
were exceptional circumstances that wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs K referring the complaint 
to our service. It would, after all, only have taken an email or phone call to do this. 
Consequently, Im unable to consider this part of the complaint. 
Aviva sent a further final response dated 1 February 2021, that dealt with the damage that 
the leak caused to other areas of the house. Mr and Mrs K referred this complaint within the 
six-months time limit, and I can consider this part of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs K held a home emergency policy with Aviva. I have considered the terms and 
conditions of the policy to see the level of cover provided. The policy defines home 
emergency cover as: provides you with assistance in the event of an emergency at your property. We describe an emergency as a sudden and unforeseen incident which: causes 
a loss of essential services or damage to your property; Given the leak that occurred at 
Mr and Mrs Ks home, Im satisfied that this would fall under the definition of the policy as a 
sudden, unforeseen incident which caused damage. 
Aviva accepted that it had a duty to ensure that the repair to the original leak was promptly 
attended to. It also accepted that it did not achieve this. 
However, the consequential damage that Mr and Mrs K reported (that is to other areas in 
their home) Aviva confirmed that it was unsure how much damage had been caused by the 
original leak and how much damage was caused due to the delay in not attending to the 
emergency as promptly as it ought to have. For this reason, Aviva relied upon the scope of 
works complied by its engineer and offered a full cash settlement of £333.14. Which was the 
amount quoted in the scope of works. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs K have obtained quotations for amounts more than the cash 
settlement figure. Those quotations were passed to Aviva for its comments as to the 
difference. It said that many of the works quoted amounted to betterment such as a new 
ceiling, a damp proof course and full decoration. In their surveyors report only a stain block 
and paint were required to bring the property back to the pre-loss condition. So, Im 
persuaded that the additional work quoted is betterment and not covered under the policy. 
Accordingly, I think Aviva has been fair and reasonable in recognising that it was responsible 
for some of the consequential damage. And it has offered and paid the full amount indicated 
in the surveyors scope of works. 
In the circumstances, whilst I fully appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr and Mrs K 
wouldve liked, Im unable to direct Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman