DRN-3841904
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Acromas Insurance Company Limited dealt with his claim when 
his laptop was stolen from his parked car.
What happened
Mr P had household insurance with Acromas. His policy started on 16 April 2022. He chose 
to pay his premium monthly by direct debit and his first payment of £31.75 was due to be 
collected on 28 April 2022. But the payment failed, and Mr P has never made any payments 
for his cover to Acromas. The details of Mr Ps premium and his monthly payments are set 
out clearly on page two of his policy.
Mr Ps policy provided cover for unspecified personal items up to a value of £2,500. In early 
May 2022 Mr P called Aromas to make a claim for his laptop which he told them had been 
stolen from his car on 7 May 2022. Acromas registered his claim and wrote to him on 9 May 
2022 requesting proof of ownership/estimates and invoices, as had been discussed when 
he'd called them.
Acromas wrote to Mr P again on 25 May 2022 with a form for him to complete and sign to 
enable them to request information about the theft from the police. They also requested 
details of his motor insurers so they could cross reference the claim with them.
Mr P sent Acromas confirmation of the order for his laptop, which was part of a plan, on 9 
May 2022. He signed the consent form in respect of the police report on 6 June 2022. And 
Acromas requested the police report on 9 June 2022. Mr P gave Acromas details of his car 
insurer at the end of June 2022.
Mr P raised a complaint with Acromas as he was unhappy his claim hadnt been settled, and 
with how his claim had been handled. Because of the delay Mr P says he bought a second-
hand laptop for £260, as he needed this for work.
While Acromas were looking into Mr Ps claim his policy was cancelled due to non-payment 
of his premium. Acromas have told us that the first attempt to collect his initial monthly 
payment failed. There was a further attempt to collect the payment on 7 May 2022 and when 
this was unsuccessful the direct debit mandate was cancelled automatically on 11 May 
2022. Acromas say that three reminder letters were then sent to Mr P a week apart, with a 
seven-day cancellation letter being sent on 25 May 2022. His policy was then cancelled on 1 
June 2022 due to non-payment of his premium.
Acromas responded to Mr Ps complaint on 16 August 2022 saying that their enquiries were 
still ongoing, so they were unable to comment on his claim until their investigations had been 
completed. They apologised for the delay but said they had to validate his claim. He was told 
that if the claim was covered, he would be required to pay the premium due up to the date 
his policy was cancelled. 
Mr P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold 
Mr Ps complaint. He said that Acromas were still looking into Mr Ps complaint when he 
came to us. He said Acromas had engaged with Mr P and the ongoing delay was because 
they hadnt yet received the police report which they needed to complete their enquiries. But 
he said that once theyd completed their investigation, they should make a decision on the 
claim without further delay.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy was cancelled on 1 June 2022, but it was in place on the date that his laptop 
was stolen. Acromas have told him that if they agree to cover his claim then hell need to pay 
his premium for the period he was on cover.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy state that he must provide them with correct 
information and answer their questions with reasonable care, honestly, truthfully and 
completely. As Mr P told Acromas that his laptop was stolen from his car, and the theft was 
reported to the police, I think its reasonable for them to require sight of the police report 
before reaching a decision on his claim.
Once Mr P provided a signed form authorising the police to release information about the 
theft to them, Acromas requested that information within a couple of days. The police 
responded confirming that Acromas needed to request a copy of the police report and pay 
the relevant fee. The report has yet to be received by Acromas and theyve advised Mr P of 
this.
While I can understand Mr Ps frustration that his claim remains outstanding, and hes told us 
about the financial pressure this has put him under, Acromas are entitled to investigate the 
circumstances of the theft. I can see hes called them numerous times for updates on his 
claim. I think the number of calls could have been reduced if theyd managed Mr Ps 
expectations about the time it might take to complete their enquiries better.
While Mr P is unhappy about the delay in dealing with his claim, I cant see from the 
information Acromas have provided, that there have been any unnecessary delays. They 
told Mr P what information they needed from him, and theyve contacted him when theyve 
needed anything further.
Acromas have told us theyre still awaiting the police report, and the time it takes for this to 
be received is outside their control. But I do think they need to chase this and once its 
received let Mr P know whether his claim is accepted as soon as possible. But I think its 
reasonable for them to complete their enquires before they make a decision on his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman