DRN-3454251
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse money paid from his bank account 
by direct debit over a number of years. 
What happened
Mr C contacted Santander and asked them to recredit his account with money hed paid to 
his local council for council tax over a number of years. Mr C said his local authority had 
acted corruptly and that there was no contract between himself and them. 
Santander looked into Mr Cs request to recredit the money under the direct debit indemnity 
policy. They said this was for use when there was an error with the payment and from the 
information Mr C had provided there wasnt enough evidence to show theyd been an error 
with the payment. Instead they said the dispute was between Mr C and his local authority. 
Mr C didnt agree and complained. 
Santander reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They maintained that the direct debit 
indemnity was for use where there had been an error with the payment. And from what Mr C 
had said Santander didnt think there was an error with the payment as it had been taken for 
several years and Mr C was now disputing his council tax with his local authority. Unhappy 
with Santanders response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
Santander had reviewed Mr Cs request, but due to how many years the payments went 
back, and that Mr C hadnt shown there was an error, he didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly by turning down Mr Cs request to be recredited his direct debit payments. 
Mr C didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the direct debit guarantee say:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit by Santander or 
your bank or building society you are entitled to a full and immediate 
refund of the amount paid from your bank or building society.
The direct debit guarantee enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from 
their bank in certain  but by no means all  circumstances. Its purpose is to provide 
protection to customers who have provided originators with access to their accounts in order 
to collect money. But most genuine errors in payments will usually come to light relatively 
quickly. Where thats the case, in most circumstances I might expect the bank to refund 
immediately. But where several years have elapsed, as here, I rather think that does call into 
question whether the claim is genuine. In those circumstances, Im satisfied the banks not 
obliged to refund immediately and without question, as Mr C says.
In my view, the details of the direct debit guarantee Ive highlighted above clearly means that 
the entitlement to a refund isnt absolute. It requires that an error is made in the payment of 
the direct debit. Santander has quite reasonably asked Mr C for details of his claim and 
didnt agree that an error had been made. Based on what Ive seen, I dont believe the fair 
way to resolve this dispute would be for me to simply require Santander to refund Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman