DRN-4396232
The complaint
Miss P complains about the service she received from London and Country Mortgages Ltd 
(L&C) when she tried to remortgage a buy to let (BTL) property. She said they caused 
delays which meant she ended up paying a higher interest rate on her mortgage. 
What happened
Miss P said L&C was supposed to arrange a new consumer BTL mortgage for her rental 
property and said they caused considerable delays in trying to do so. She said they ended 
up just closing her case without telling her. Miss P said she ended up having to pay much 
more interest on her mortgage as a result and she wanted L&C to cover these costs. 
At first, L&C told Miss P that they didnt do anything wrong. They said as part of the 
application process, they wrote to Miss P asking for further information which she hadnt 
provided. Miss P said she had replied and told L&C she would forward the emails to them so 
they could investigate the matter. 
After investigating further, L&C said that the emails that Miss P forwarded to them were not 
attached to the case and the adviser has no recollection of receiving them, so they said they 
possibly didnt get through to him. They apologised and offered her £50 as compensation for 
this. 
Miss P wasnt happy with what L&C said so she brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
L&C had caused delays as they were waiting for information from Miss P. She said they also 
made it clear that interest rates were not guaranteed  so she thought the £50 offered was 
fair.
Miss P disagreed. She said L&C did admit to causing delays and its clear that she sent all 
the information prior to her interest rate expiring. She said she was never notified that her 
case had been closed by L&C and there is no evidence that they contacted her to tell her 
this. 
Miss P believes that she sent all the required information to L&C and if it hadnt been 
received, why did they not contact her again asking for the information to be sent to them  
instead they just closed her case. 
She doesnt believe that the emails she sent were not received by them. She said that the 
investigator said that the adviser always responded swiftly in any communication with Miss P 
and as there was no communication after, she didnt think they had received the emails from 
her. Miss P said just because L&C always responded swiftly previously it didnt mean that 
they hadnt received the emails she sent. She said it could be more likely that their 
workloads were heavy, and her information was lost or forgotten about. 
As Miss P disagreed with the investigator, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has told us that she was trying to arrange a remortgage with L&C and she felt there 
was a lot of back and forth which she found very stressful. She said she has been accused 
of not sending information to them and will be thousands of pounds out of pocket because 
she has lost out on lower mortgage interest rates. She said she should be awarded much 
higher compensation and should be offered lower interest rates with fees waived. 
I have taken a look at the contact notes that have been provided by L&C to understand the 
timeline of events.
An appointment was made with L&C for 5 May 2022 to discuss a remortgage of Miss Ps 
BTL property. It appears that Miss P attached some documents online prior to the 
appointment. 
The adviser contacted Miss P later that day to say that they did not have the two years tax 
calculations and overviews attached. They asked Miss P to resend these. I can see a few 
emails were sent back and forth between Miss P and the adviser. 
There is another note on the same day which says that Miss Ps credit report was also 
requested. It seems as though Miss P provided something to the adviser but then the 
adviser responds to say he needs the full report and not a screenshot.
There was a telephone conversation on 9 May 2022 where Miss P rang to speak to the 
adviser who went through the status of the case. The note says that the credit report still 
wasnt the full one that he had asked for but was working off what he could for the time 
being.  The notes says he needed to check with some different lenders as an arrangement 
to pay is treated differently by some lenders so he needed to look into this further. He said it 
could take another couple of days and that retention rates were discussed with Miss P as 
well. 
The note from 17 June 2022 suggests that an appointment was made with Miss P to discuss 
the position of her case and a discussion was had about the information the adviser had 
obtained from the lenders. It also mentions that some of the documents that had been sent 
were still not in the preferred format. It looks like Miss P told the adviser she may not be able 
to get the information needed until after 25 June 2022 but will try to get them over as soon 
as possible. The adviser then explains he is on leave from then until 11 July 2022.
There was an email sent to Miss P on 24 June 2022 chasing up the required documents. 
There is an email from Miss P to the adviser on 27 June 2022 apologising that she couldnt 
take his call and she will wait until he gets back from annual leave. She also had some 
queries regarding the mortgage fees.
There is also an email where I can see Miss P is letting the adviser know that her interest 
rate has increased and she wanted an update on her application. 
The adviser responded saying that its likely interest rates would change by the time he 
returned from leave and said he is happy to deal with it when he returns but there is a risk 
that rates would increase. He also reminded Miss P on the information he still required which 
was proof of child/working tax credit and child benefit information. He asked for a full copy of 
Miss Ps credit file report and tax year overview calculations for 2021 and 2020 in PDF 
format. 
There is then an email sent to Miss P on 21 July 2022 which says theyve not heard from 
her, and they are still waiting for the outstanding documents. Miss P then responds on the 
same day saying shes not sent anything, but she still wants to remortgage. She said she 
has concerns about the fees and if a crash is coming she will be stuck on a higher rate of 
interest. She asks if she can think things through and get back to the adviser in a few weeks. The adviser responds saying this is fine and reminds Miss P again that any previous rates 
they discussed are subject to change at a rapid rate given the market movement. He says 
he will archive the case and when she is ready, they can either re-instate it or cross 
reference the details. Again, a reminder was given about the documents they were still 
waiting for as they couldnt give a recommendation without them.
On 7 September 2022 Miss P emails the adviser and asks what the cheapest fix rate is 
available including the fees. She said she is waiting to access her credit file. The adviser 
responds saying he is on leave but if she gets what he needs in the meantime, she can 
contact one of his colleagues. 
On the 14 September 2022 Miss P explains she now has what she needs to access her 
credit file and will send the documents over. The adviser responds and says he will wait to 
hear from her. 
Miss P then logs a complaint on 27 September 2022 saying she is unhappy that her case 
was closed without her knowledge and she said she was unhappy with the adviser. 
Miss P said the last contact she had was 14 September 2022 where she sent all requested 
documentation. She assumed as she had heard nothing that the adviser was trying to find 
her the best deal. 
Having looked through everything very carefully, I cant agree with Miss P that L&C did 
anything wrong. After L&C chased Miss P, Miss P responded on 21 July 2022 saying she 
hadnt sent anything and wanted to think about things for a few weeks  which was fine for 
her to do so. The adviser responds to this email confirming that wasnt a problem but 
explains to Miss P that the file would be archived until she was ready  and they could then 
reinstate it. They reminded Miss P again what documentation they were waiting for. 
Even though this email doesnt specifically mention the word close, the adviser told Miss P 
that the case would be archived, and they could reinstate it when she got back to them. So I 
think L&C made it clear to Miss P what the next steps were and what was going to happen 
with her case. 
The last email on record after this point, and about the application is on 14 September 2022 
where Miss P explains she has what she needs to send over her credit report. And the 
adviser responds to say he will wait to hear from her. There isnt anything logged after this 
date until Miss P raises a complaint.
L&C told us that Miss P provided them with the emails she sent them which were dated 14 
and 26 September 2022. L&C said the missing emails contained two bank statements and a 
shortened version of the credit file report which they said still wasnt suitable as they needed 
to see her full report. They also said the tax documentation they requested hadnt been sent 
either at this point. 
I appreciate that Miss P did send these emails, but it doesnt look like they were received by 
L&C. Having looked through everything, there is no record of those emails being received, 
so I cant hold L&C responsible for not acting on them. 
And even if they had been received, it appears that the information Miss P did send, still 
wasnt everything that L&C had asked for  so the application wouldnt have been ready to 
proceed.
I understand that Miss P has concerns about the interest rates now available to her, but I 
think the adviser has made it clear that interest rates were rising due to the market 
conditions so Miss P would have always been aware of this  even up to the point that she 
said she wanted to think about it as she had concerns over the fees. 
I know that Miss P will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant find that I can hold L&C 
responsible for emails that appear to not have been received. I think the adviser has been 
clear throughout his communication and has always told Miss P what the next steps were going to be. I think the £50 they have offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think the compensation amount 
of £50 offered by London and Country Mortgages Ltd is fair and reasonable. They should 
pay this to Miss P if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman