DRN-3464979
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2017, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a five year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In May 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
In November 2020 the CMC brought this complaint to our service on Mr Hs behalf. One of 
our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr H 
and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the tables in the sales documentation were confusing and were not explained to 
Mr H;
one of those tables shows that the system would be self-funding after ten years;
P had used the wrong figures to calculate Mr Hs savings on his electricity bills. The 
CMC said it would soon provide Mr Hs electricity bills as evidence of this.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The third bullet point above is a new complaint point that has not been raised before. Under 
the rules which set out our services jurisdiction, I cannot consider it until Shawbrook has had 
eight weeks to consider it (or if Shawbrook waives that right). But the CMC and Mr H have 
had two years to raise that, and so I have decided not to wait. I have therefore not 
considered that issue.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive 
considered these, along with Mr Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr H, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Hs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the deposit, the interest to be 
charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Cost vs benefit comparison
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his electricity bills. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P as well as Mr Hs recollections of his meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
A page of the quote titled What will you earn and save per year? has a table which sets out 
the estimated income Mr H could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system 
(among other things). This is set out year by year over 20 years. The FIT scheme only 
provides payments for a 20-year period. The table also shows the total estimated savings 
that Mr H would make on his electricity bills over 25 years (being the estimated lifespan of 
the system). The first row is as follows:
I think that the first row of this table is clear that Mr H could expect to receive  total FIT 
income and savings in year one of £524.78, which results in an average monthly income of 
£43.73, as set out in the table. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £84.79. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr H 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the financial returns from 
the panels.
Theres another section headed Finance repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook, but I have 
also shown below the table for 120 months in order to compare the tables.
The 60 months table shows the loan as repayable in 60 monthly payments of £84.79. (This 
is incorrect; the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £84.01, but the difference 
 78p  is too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the five year loan 
it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £84.79, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
As can be seen in the tables below, the negative figures are highlighted in red, and positive 
figures (which only appear in the other tables) are highlighted in green. Mr H has said that 
the tables in the quote were confusing and were not explained to him. But I think that they 
are presented in a way which is clear and easy to follow.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that Mr H wasnt told 
that the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully thought 
about Mr Hs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 78p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the 
table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
As I mentioned before, the What will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a 
table detailing the estimated performance over 25 years. This shows that it would take eight 
years for the overall benefits that Mr H could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system, £5,000. Again, this is highlighted in colour, with the first seven years in red and the 
subsequent years in green. I think this is clear.
This also shows that by during year 10 the overall benefits that Mr H could expect to receive 
would reach the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £6,040.60.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 8 years, and for the loan in about 10 years, as supported by the table above, which 
was included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this 
was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then 
that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr H. The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,523 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Hs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,464 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
(This is not set out in Mr Hs quote, but I have seen evidence that this is what it did in other 
cases, and I infer that P did it here too.) I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 
2016 and 2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale 
(2017), and I think this explains why Mr H hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr H to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman