DRN-3603043
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his car insurance broker Acorn Insurance and Financial 
Services Ltd. Amongst other things, it cancelled his policy and Mr C has since been unable 
to drive.
What happened
Mr C had arranged a policy via Acorn in 2020. In October 2020 he changed his car but then 
suspended his policy due to the pandemic. It resumed shortly after and in spring 2021 Mr C 
missed a direct debit payment. He was looking to make the payment up. In May 2021 he told 
Acorn he had sold his car. He asked it about changing his policy to a new car. Acorn 
confirmed that he was paying monthly and realised it hadnt carried some claims over to the 
cover that applied to the car Mr C had just sold. It said he would have to pay an extra 
premium of £60.82 for the cover hed had. And it gave him a price for the new car. 
Mr C didnt want to pay the quoted price to cover the new car. He asked Acorn to cancel his 
policy. Acorn didnt do that though. And it began writing to Mr C asking for the backdated 
premium charged after it added previous claims. It said if this wasnt paid it would cancel the 
cover. Furthermore, when Mr C had been looking at ways to make up the missed payment, 
he had agreed to make weekly payments. However, no payments had been made and 
Acorn wrote to Mr C separately saying his policy would be cancelled if that payment 
arrangement was not kept to. A few days after Mr C had asked to cancel the cover, Acorn 
cancelled it. Mr C received the confirmation of cancellation and was unhappy. 
Acorn said it would waive the extra premium and the £100 cancellation fee. So there was 
nothing for Mr C to pay. It later confirmed that whilst it had noted the policy had been 
cancelled, this had been recorded as a non-reportable cancellation  meaning Mr C 
wouldnt have to declare to other insurers that hed had a policy cancelled. 
Mr C was still unhappy and complained to us. Whilst we were looking into his complaint he 
received further communication from Acorn. It said he had an outstanding premium of over 
£300 that needed to be paid. Acorn explained to our investigator that when Mr C had asked 
to change his car in October, this had generated an extra premium for cover for the 
remainder of the policy year. However, it hadnt been obtained from Mr C when the policy 
was suspended, and when the policy began again, the cost had been missed. The 
outstanding amount had also been missed when Acorn had told Mr C after the policy 
cancellation that he had nothing else to pay. Acorn calculated that the extra cost to the date 
the policy was actually cancelled would only be £167.48. It said this would now be waived. 
Mr C was pleased this was waived but he remained confused and concerned because Acorn 
had previously assured him there had been nothing to pay. Acorn said it was happy for us to 
look at this issue as part of Mr Cs complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr C had received some poor service. She said he should be paid 
£150 compensation.
Mr C felt this didnt go far enough given everything he felt hed been through. He said he 
couldnt get cover due to this cancellation. He explained in some detail how his health 
means he cant use public transport and without a car hed been unable to visit family and 
support a poorly relative. He said hed been caused lots of worry and upset. Not least when 
he received letters threatening legal action for a debt he hadnt even known existed, 
especially when Acorn had assured him there had been nothing outstanding for him to pay. 
He said hed had job offers he couldnt take because he couldnt drive, so hed lost income. 
Our investigator considered the evidence Mr C had provided about jobs opportunities. But 
she wasnt persuaded that Mr C had received confirmed job offers that fell through only due 
to his being unable to drive. Regarding the cancellation she noted that Mr C had had a policy 
cancelled previously. She felt that having this further policy cancelled wouldnt have made it 
any more difficult for him to get cover. 
Mr C remained unhappy. His complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
consideration. I thought Acorn had failed Mr C, and that this had caused him a lot of upset 
and inconvenience. As such I was minded to make it pay substantial compensation. I issued 
a provisional decision to explain my views to both parties. The findings from my provisional 
decision were: 
Cancellation
Strictly speaking, if a policyholder agrees a payment arrangement, which they then fail to 
keep to, an insurer or broker might well be able to cancel the cover. But this service would 
always consider, where such a cancellation occurs, whether that had been fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Here, I dont think it was. 
I think Mr C didnt know he had entered into a weekly payment arrangement. He spoke to 
Acorn just a couple of days after the arrangement began. Acorns call notes show he was 
unclear about the arrangement. But also that the situation wasnt clarified and the 
conversation continued to discuss what Mr Cs monthly payment arrangement was. And 
Acorns file shows that it was possible for Mr C to have entered into the weekly arrangement 
without realising that he had done so. Acorns file also showed it had been trying to contact 
Mr C by email and text message, even though his preferred method of contact was post.
So I dont think Acorn communicated with Mr C clearly  its system shouldnt have allowed 
such an important arrangement, that might result in a policy cancellation, to be arranged by 
mistake and its advisor should have taken the opportunity they had to clarify the situation 
with Mr C. Further, communication should have been by the preferred method. But for any 
one of these failures the cancellation of Mr Cs policy would likely have been avoided. 
But, more than that, before Acorn acted to cancel Mr Cs policy, Mr C told it he no longer 
owned the car it had arranged cover for and he asked it to cancel the policy. I think Acorn 
should have acted on that request. But it didnt. Instead, just a couple of days later, it 
cancelled the cover for failure to keep to the payment arrangement. It backdated the 
cancellation to the day after Mr C had asked to cancel. That doesnt seem fair to me. 
Cancellation for a policyholder can have severe repercussions. Clearly Acorn didnt want to 
be arranging cover for Mr C anymore  but he had told it he didnt want it to anyway. Fairly 
and reasonably, I think his request, even without Acorns other failures, should have been 
actioned with any cancellation it had been thinking about being set aside. In all of the 
circumstances here, forcing its cancellation through was, in my view, unfair and 
unreasonable.
Request for outstanding premium
Following the policy cancellation, Acorn assured Mr C there was nothing owing to it. It was 
quite a while later when Mr C received contact stating he had to pay over £300. And this payment amount dated back to changes that had been put into effect on the policy about a 
year before. Furthermore, given that the policy had cancelled early, the value in question 
was incorrect. I think its fair to say also that Acorn was very aware, through the course of 
everything else that had gone on, that Mr C was struggling financially and that hed suffered 
stress due to the cancellation. I think sending him contact like this, some of which came from 
solicitors, was unfair and unreasonable. I also think it caused him a lot more stress. Not least 
as the letters received threatened legal action.
With our involvement Acorn clarified that the amount outstanding, once the cancellation date 
had been taken into account, was £167.42. Also that it had waived this sum and it was no 
longer asking Mr C to pay it. I think that was fair in the circumstances. But I will allow this 
sum to be deducted from the compensation amount I am awarding. That is because Mr C 
did have the benefit of the cover this price was charged for  between October 2020 and 
May 2021. Just because Acorn handled collection of it in an inappropriate way  forgetting 
about it initially and then asking for it a year later, doesnt mean Mr C shouldnt have to pay 
it. So its reasonable for me to allow this sum to be off-set against my compensation award. 
I appreciate that Acorn has amended its own records to show this sum isnt owed by Mr C. 
But Im not sure whether the fact of this sum having been outstanding was recorded in any 
way on Mr Cs credit records. Acorn should provide a letter for Mr C to present to credit 
reference agencies if he needs to, to explain that the amount in question became 
outstanding due to an error on its part  that requests for its payment were later withdrawn.   
Compensation
I understand from detail Mr C has given us that he has been unable to drive since Acorn 
effected the cancellation. I know he didnt have a car at that point. But I think its fair to say 
that he then couldnt reasonably get another car as he knew he couldnt insure it. And on 
that note, I think that whilst declaring one policy cancellation to prospective insurers makes it 
difficult to find cover, having a second declarable cancellation, makes finding cover that 
much harder, and definitely more expensive, again. It is, in my experience, a cumulative 
effect. So I think it is most likely that Acorns cancellation made Mr Cs position more difficult 
than it already was. I accept that whilst he had found cover before whilst declaring one 
cancellation, he now couldnt find affordable cover at all.
However, Im not going to award Mr C a sum to account for jobs he couldnt take. Ive seen 
the evidence he has sent about the jobs and I dont think he had an agreed job in place 
which fell through. Rather he had some prospective/possible job opportunities, that he might 
have been able to take further if hed had a car. 
I am minded though to require Acorn to pay Mr C £10 a day for loss of use of a car. It will 
have to pay him that from 20 May 2021 until 11 March 2022. It was 11 March 2022 when 
Acorn told Mr C it would mark the cancellation as non-reportable. At that point he was back 
in the position he should always have been in when he told Acorn hed sold his car and 
wanted to cancel the cover, but which was never actually achieved before because of the 
unreasonable cancellation on 20 May 2021.   
I also absolutely understand the frustration Mr C has felt throughout this matter. Not least  
that he felt stuck as he wanted to work but the job opportunities he was seeing required him 
to drive and Acorns cancellation was preventing him from doing that. I also understand how 
upset Mr C was at not being able to drive  that this has had a massive impact on him 
personally. Theres then the stress he was caused when Acorn began asking for money 
again in October 2021. Bearing all of this in mind I think Acorn should pay Mr C £1,500 
compensation. But, as noted above already, there are some sums that can, I think, reasonably be off-set 
against that. Firstly the extra premium of £167.42. But also the waived £100 cancellation fee. 
Ive explained about the £167.42 above. Regarding the cancellation fee, if Acorn had 
listened to Mr C and cancelled the policy, he would always have had to pay this fee. Acorn 
has waived it. Its fair, I think, to off-set that sum against my compensation award.
I know Acorn also waived a charge of £60.82. This was for an increased premium it tried to 
charge Mr C in respect of claims. Im not going to allow this waived sum to be off-set against 
the compensation award. In short, and regardless of whether or not this change came about 
due to another failure of Acorn, this service doesnt find it fair for such sums to be demanded 
mid-term. Rather, and again in short, the policyholder should get the chance to cancel. And 
Mr C cancelled. As this sum couldnt reasonably be charged in the first place, Acorn having 
waived it cant really be seen as a goodwill gesture.
Mr C said he accepted my provisional decision. Acorn said it disagreed with it.
In short Acorn said it had always sort to assist Mr C and it provided detail of how it had gone 
about doing that. And that the cancellation was ultimately effected for non-payment, in line 
with the terms of the policy. Acorn said it didnt think the awards I had proposed were 
reflective of the support that was actually provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the detail Acorn has provided in reply. But it is reflective of the detail I had 
seen when assessing the complaint prior to making my provisional decision. I was aware 
then that, at times, Acorn had looked to assist Mr C and that it had waived various charges 
during the course of their relations. And Ive allowed some of the waived sums to be off-set 
against my compensation award. But Acorns acts, at times, of assisting and supporting 
Mr C, dont change the fact that, in my view, when it came to cancelling the policy, despite 
what the terms allowed it to do, it acted unfairly and unreasonably. And that Im satisfied that 
Acorns unfair and unreasonable action, including it asking Mr C for more money in 
October 2021, had repercussions for Mr C. My awards then account for that, so that, as far 
as reasonably possible, the impacts Mr C suffered are mitigated. I remain of the view that my 
provisionally stated awards are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Having reviewed the complaint again, and taken into account Acorns reply, Im not minded 
to change my findings or awards provisionally stated. They, along with my comments above, 
are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Acorn, in respect of the sum it demanded payment of in October 2021, to provide 
Mr C with a letter that, if necessary, he can use with credit reference agencies, which 
explains that the amount became outstanding due to a failure on its part  that requests for 
its payment were later withdrawn.
I also require Acorn to pay Mr C:
£10 a day for loss of use of a car, from 20 May 2021 until 11 March 2022 (inclusive).
£1,232.58 compensation for upset  where my total award is £1,500 but it is reasonable 
for this to be paid less the waived figures of £100 and £167.42.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Acorn Insurance and Financial Services Ltd to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman