DRN-3660432
The complaint
Ms C complains that Darlington Building Society (DBS) charged her a penalty when she 
transferred her cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) to a third party provider.
What happened
Ms C had a fixed rate ISA with DBS which matured on 30 November 2021. She says she 
attempted to transfer the ISA to a third party provider on 9 December, during a penalty free 
window (1-14 December), but this didnt happen, and she was unaware as to the reason the 
transfer was delayed. The transfer went through in January 2022, but as this was outside of 
the penalty free window, she was charged £72 interest when the funds were transferred to 
the third party provider. Ms C made a complaint to DBS.
DBS did not uphold Ms Cs complaint. They said that her request to transfer the ISA to the 
third party provider was originally rejected on 10 December 2021. They said the third party 
provider confirmed this to them on a telephone call that this was rejected at the input stage, 
due to an issue with the sort code and account number. They said that this meant they were 
not aware of the impending transfer therefore they were unable to contact Ms C. They said 
they understood the issue was corrected on 11 December 2021, with a transfer request 
submitted. This was not received by them until 23 December 2021, which was nine days 
outside of the penalty free window. 
DBS said that as no instruction or contact had been made within the 14 day window, her 
funds were reinvested, as made clear in the account terms and conditions. They said they 
could find no wrongdoing or delays caused by themselves and that the delay was caused by 
the third party provider not submitting the request until 12 days after she had completed the 
paperwork. Ms C brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Cs complaint. He said DBS sent her a letter dated 16 
November 2021, informing her that her account was close to maturing. This wouldve 
informed her of the penalty free window, the potential charges to her account and what to 
expect next. He said he didnt think it was fair or reasonable to hold DBS accountable for 
having not received the transfer request on 9 December 2021. And it was mentioned in 
DBSs final response letter that the transfer request was rejected by the third party provider 
due to issues with her account number and sort code. Our investigator said that ultimately, 
DBS were not made aware of the transfer at the time and from the evidence he had, DBS 
received one transfer request on 23 December 2021, which was outside the penalty free 
window and therefore they charged Ms C interest. 
Ms C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said DBS had said that the original transfer was rejected at source, so she 
questioned why they didnt inform her of this and said they wasted time waiting for the third 
party provider to contact them after she questioned how the transfer was going. Ms C 
mentioned reviews that DBS have received about withdrawing money from them and she 
said they had deliberately put things in the way of the transfer by dragging their heels. She 
said she had spoken to the third party provider and they have proof that the ISA transfer was 
logged on their system on 10 December 2021, when she contacted them with her national 
insurance number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Ms C from the outset that Im unable to instruct DBS to alter their policies or 
procedures. This is because these are commercial decisions for DBS to make. But I will be 
looking into whether DBS have applied their policies and procedures in a fair and reasonable 
manner here.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about the reviews of DBS. But my role is to assess the 
merits of the individual complaint she has brought to our service, and as such, I wont be 
commenting on the reviews Ms C has read about DBS. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the fixed term ISA that Ms C had with DBS which 
matured on 30 November 2021. Under section 15, they state Prior to the maturity date we 
will write to you and confirm your options. You will normally be allowed 14 days from 1 
December 2021 in which to make a partial withdrawal, close the account or give notice to 
transfer it to another ISA provider, without incurring any interest charge. I can see that they 
wrote to Ms C on 16 November, informing her that her fixed rate ISA issue 18 would be 
replaced on 1 December 2021 with the fixed rate ISA issue 27. 
The letter shows a table of her current fixed rate ISA, side by side with a table of the new 
fixed rate ISA. Under the section Transfers out to a Darlington Building Society or other 
provider ISA it shows for the new ISA that Transfers out to another provider permitted 
penalty free between 1 and 14 December 2021. 120 days loss of interest from 15 December 
2021. So Im persuaded that Ms C was made aware of the circumstances in which she 
could transfer the ISA penalty free, when she opened the issue 18 ISA which matured on 30 
November, but just before maturity, this process was again reiterated to her. 
Ive considered what Ms C has said about the third party provider confirming that the ISA 
transfer was logged into the third party provider system on 10 December. This would be in 
line with what Ms C has told us about contacting them to provide her with her national 
insurance number. This date does not appear to be in dispute, as DBS said in their response 
letter that the ISA transfer was rejected on 10 December. 
So Ive considered whether the evidence shows that DBS had made an error in the transfer 
being rejected. But Im satisfied that they hadnt made an error and Ill explain why. The 
rejection was due to an issue with a sort code and account number and DBS have confirmed 
the error was at the input stage. So as the error was at the input stage  which is before the 
transfer request would be sent to DBS, this is why they werent aware that Ms C was 
wanting to transfer her ISA to a third party provider during 1-14 December. And that is why 
they didnt contact her to discuss the error  as Im satisfied they werent aware of an error 
here. The onus would usually be on the new provider to chase up the transfer if there were any errors as they are the ones who are expecting to receive the funds from the previous 
provider.
ISA transfers between providers are typically completed using an automated system. That 
system has inbuilt checks to verify the details input. If the sort code and account number 
details are incorrect, as its been suggested they were here, it could lead to a request being 
rejected before it even reaches DBS. So it appears that this could have happened here and 
thats why Im satisfied that DBS didnt delay any transfer here, as they werent aware a 
request had been made.
Ive seen evidence of the transfer which was successful. On the transfer overview section, 
where it says requested on, it shows a date and time of 23 December 2021 at 14:45. The 
evidence shows that the funds were sent to the third party provider on 6 January 2022, 
which is within the 15 working days which would normally be expected to complete a cash 
ISA transfer to another cash ISA provider. So Im not persuaded that DBS had unduly 
delayed the transfer. 
I can sympathise with Ms Cs situation here. She completed an ISA application within the 14 
day penalty free period, so she will have expected the transfer to be completed without her 
incurring an interest penalty. But the initial transfer request was rejected at source (the input 
stage) due to the account number and sort code discrepancy. So I cant reasonably hold 
DBS responsible for that.
So Im satisfied that DBS acted in line with the terms and conditions which they set out. And 
they acted in line with the transfer request that they received from the third party provider, 
when they actually received the request. So Im not persuaded that DBS were unfair to 
charge the interest penalty (which they had clearly set out they would), when they 
transferred the account to the third party provider, as Im satisfied that they did not receive a 
transfer request between 1-14 December from the third party provider. So it follows I wont 
be asking DBS to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman