DRN-4034031
The complaint
Mr B complains about HDI Global Specialty SEs handling of a claim made under his pet 
insurance.
What happened
Mr B has a lifetime pet insurance policy underwritten by HDI which covers his pet dog.
The pet policies offered by HDI are graded. In June 2022, Mr B decided to upgrade his 
policy from Advance cover to Ultimate cover. 
This meant his monthly premiums increased quite significantly, but one of the main 
advantages for Mr B was that the annual claim limit increased from £1,500 to £4,500.
On 4 July 2022, Mr B rang HDIs agent to check the cover he had. He was told the 
applicable limit was £4,500. He then took his dog for treatment which cost around £2,000.
After he made a claim for the cost of the treatment, Mr B was told the applicable limit was 
£1,500 and he had to pay the remaining cost of the treatment himself.
Mr B complained to HDI about this. He was told the policy terms were clear that when a 
customer upgraded a policy and the claim limit was increased, the previous claim limit would 
still apply if the condition being treated pre-dated the upgrade. And so, HDI were sticking 
with their previous decision about his claim.
However, HDI admitted Mr B had been misled during the phone call on 4 July 2022. And 
they offered £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Mr B wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He wanted HDI to honour the 
claim, given that theyd told him on 4 July 2022 that he would be covered up to the £4,500 
limit. 
He also wanted the extra premiums hed paid after the upgrade refunded  and his policy 
reverted to Advance cover. And he wanted compensation for the stress hed been caused.
Our investigator looked into and thought HDI should settle the claim in full and pay the extra 
cost (over the £1,500 limit) theyd so far refused to cover, rather than pay Mr B £150 in 
compensation for the misleading phone call. 
But he felt that as Mr B was therefore going to benefit from the upgraded cover, he shouldnt 
expect to have the additional premium payments returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the facts in this case, but its worth just setting out exactly whats 
happened.
Mr B upgraded his policy in June 2022 after discussing his options with HDI. HDI say that 
during those conversations, their agent made Mr B aware that the previous cover limit would 
apply for any pre-existing conditions.
The new policy schedule issued to Mr B simply says the limit is now £4,500. There is a 
footnote which invites the customer to see the full policy booklet for detail about the terms 
and conditions.
The full policy booklet makes it clear that the previous limit will apply for treatment costs for 
any condition which pre-existed the upgrade.
On 4 July 2022, Mr B was misled and told his cover limit was £4,500. Theres no suggestion 
at all that Mr B misled the agent about his dogs illness or how long it had been suffering 
from that condition. HDI have fully admitted that their agent made a mistake and told Mr B 
the wrong thing.
Theres no dispute here that the dog was already suffering from the condition for which it 
received treatment after the July phone call before Mr B upgraded the policy.
I should make it clear that I fully understand that if we apply the terms and conditions 
straightforwardly, Mr Bs cover for the treatment in question was subject to a £1,500 limit, 
given that the illness pre-dated the upgrade.
However, I dont think anyone would suggest that Mr B, as a customer of HDI, wasnt entitled 
to make the phone call on 4 July 2022 to clarify how the terms might apply and to check the 
situation as regards the treatment he was about to ask his vet to provide.
And after he made that call - in which he was entirely misled, as HDI admit  he was entitled 
to believe HDI would cover the cost of treatment up to the £4,500 limit. 
Mr B then made a decision  on the basis of what hed been told by HDIs agent - to proceed 
with the treatment being suggested by the vet. Mr B may not have taken that option (at least 
in full) had he not been misled about the cover limit.
So, Im satisfied on balance, that its fair and reasonable for HDI to cover the cost of their 
error. Mr B appears to have acted in good faith throughout and it was the error made by 
HDIs agent that led to him making the decision to incur the treatment costs.
That error  on 4 July 2022  is the key factor here, whether or not HDI had earlier, and in 
their policy documents, made the terms and conditions reasonably clear. When Mr B rang to 
check his understanding of those terms, he was misled.
Putting things right
I agree then with our investigator that HDI should pay the full claim rather than apply the 
strict terms of the policy and simply compensate Mr B for his having been misled.
I also agree that Mr B will then have taken full advantage of the upgraded policy, so he cant 
expect HDI to also return the additional premiums hes paid since the upgrade.
I should also say that because Mr B is now fully aware of the terms and conditions, he cant 
reasonably expect HDI to apply the upgraded claim limit (£4,500) to any future veterinary 
costs he chooses to incur which relate to the pre-existing condition (or any other pre-existing conditions). 
My reason for making HDI pay the full claim in this case is that Mr Bs choice to opt for the 
treatment in question was clearly impacted by the misleading information he was given. In 
other words, he made his choice on a false premise. Any future choices Mr B makes will be 
in full knowledge of the limits that will be applied.
If Mr B believes that makes the upgraded policy  and higher premiums - not worthwhile for 
him, then I assume HDI will have no issue with him downgrading his policy cover, at Mr Bs 
convenience and in line with the applicable terms and conditions. 
Im not aware whether any administration charges would usually be applied in these 
circumstances (to downgrade the policy), but if so, HDI would be entitled to apply them here. 
Theres no suggestion that Mr B was misled about the terms when he upgraded the policy in 
June 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
HDI Global Specialty SE must:
pay the existing claim for treatment in full; and
allow Mr B to downgrade his policy, if he wishes, in line with the usual applicable 
terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman