DRN-1629364
 
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about Phoenix Life Limited. Since 2006 she has been receiving 
annual statements for a pension policy which led her to believe it belonged to her. It was 
only in 2019 that she was told there had been a mistake, and that the policy belonged to 
someone else. 
What happened
Mrs R complained to Phoenix in 2019. It upheld her complaint. It accepted that it had made a 
mistake when it had written to her about this pension policy. It's explained that it had lost 
contact with the true owner and made an address search which had identified Mrs R. It had 
contacted Mrs R in 2006 and then sent statements to her until it was contacted by the true 
owner in 2018. The true owner established that the policy was hers, and so the pension 
statements were then redirected.
Mrs R had spoken with Phoenix about the pension benefits available in 2016 and told them 
about her change of address in 2017. She had also taken out a new mortgage in 2017 with 
the hope that funds from this pension would help her repay the mortgage early.
Mrs R only discovered that there was any issue with the pension when she phoned Phoenix 
in 2019 but was unable to complete the security questions. It seems that Phoenix hadnt 
made any effort to inform Mrs R about the true owner coming forward at the time that 
happened.
Phoenix upheld the complaint and offered to pay Mrs R £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. Mrs R didnt accept, she pointed out that the pension was 
worth over £15,000, and she wasnt in a position to replace that loss before her retirement 
date. She was also relying on this money to help pay off her mortgage.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator. 
Ultimately, she felt that Phoenixs offer was fair. She said, in summary, there had been a 
loss of expectation but the pension didnt belong to Mrs R, and whilst she may have taken a 
higher mortgage, she had the benefit of a higher value property and so that didnt represent 
an actual loss to her.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said that had Phoenix realised its mistake earlier she could have 
made alternative pension arrangements, and she had been misled about her financial 
planning.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
dont uphold this complaint as I consider the offer Phoenix has made to be reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Firstly, I want to say that I do sympathise with Mrs R. She clearly has been provided with 
misleading information about this pension over an extended period. Its not easy to see how 
a mistake like this could have been made. Mrs R shares the same name as the true owner 
of the policy, although there is a different spelling of the forename, but she has a different 
date of birth. Its hard to see how even a rudimentary check could have failed to reveal that 
she was not the correct policyholder when Phoenix made its searches.
There is no doubt that Phoenix made a mistake. However, my role is not intended to punish 
a business for its mistakes. I have no powers to fine a business or make a punitive award. I 
have to decide what is a fair way of putting things right.
Ultimately, the policy doesnt belong to Mrs R, it never did. She has been misled about that , 
but when a person has been misled the proper resolution is to place that person in the 
position they would be in if the false statement hadnt been made, and not to put them in the 
position they would be in if the false statement had been true. So it would be wrong to say 
that Phoenix should pay Mrs R the full value of the pension.
I can accept that Mrs R may have relied upon the misleading information she was given to 
some extent. Her financial planning may have been impacted, but she will have had the 
benefit of the money she may otherwise have contributed to her existing pension or 
pensions if she had known the true position.
And whilst Mrs R may have been relying on funds from this pension to help her repay her 
mortgage, I agree with the investigator that this is not a loss as such. It is a loss of 
expectation and I can see that it will have inconvenienced Mrs R, but she will have the 
benefit of a higher value property. Also, I dont think I can safely conclude that she would 
have made different decisions about the size of the mortgage or the cost of the property in 
2017 if she had known the true position. She purchased a property for over £300,000 with a 
mortgage of over £200,000, and whilst this pension, worth around £15,000, may have been 
a factor in her decision-making process, I dont think it would have been absolutely critical to, 
or decisive, in the decisions she actually made. I don't think she would have made different 
choices with knowledge of the tue position. 
So for these reasons, Im not satisfied that Mrs R has suffered direct financial loss because 
of the misleading information she was given about this pension. I do fully accept that she will 
have suffered a loss of expectation and a high degree of frustration. Phoenix has offered 
£500 to compensate for that, and overall I think that offer is fair and reasonable. 
I do have every  sympathy with Mrs R, but for the reasons I have given, I dont propose to 
make any further award. 
 
 
My final decisionPhoenix Life Limited should pay Mrs R £500 if it hasnt already done so.  I make no further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman