DRN-3426719
The complaint
Mr R complained about U K Insurance Limited s service when he claimed for accident 
repairs under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Rs car was damaged after being hit in the rear while it was parked. U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) agreed that their approved repairers (UKIs garage) would repair the accident 
related damage, which they said was to the cars rear bumper. But they wouldnt repair an 
issue with the drive shaft which meant the car was not driveable. They said that was pre-
existing damage. 
Mr R said that they should have fixed everything as his car was running fine before the 
accident. He was also unhappy with their service regarding the hire car they gave him while 
his care was being repaired, and with their service overall. Mr R said that he was left 
without a car for a week, which caused him inconvenience and distress. He felt they didnt 
take him seriously and treated him unfairly, and that they and their garage had victimised 
him because he had complained. He said this impacted his life and health. 
UKI accepted that their service fell short of their expectations in some respects and they 
apologised. But they UKI thought that the driveshaft issue was not related to the accident 
or the cars recovery but was due to wear and tear. They said that if UKI sent them an 
independent engineers report which said that the accident did cause the driveshaft issue, 
UKI would pay for that to be repaired and would reimburse him the cost of the report. 
However Mr R had another garage repair the driveshaft issue and wanted UKI Mr R to 
reimburse him for that and for the policy excess he has to pay under his policy. UKI 
wouldnt agree.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint to UKI should be upheld . She 
thought that UKI had acted fairly and reasonably overall. Mr R didnt agree and so the 
case has been passed to me to decide. The policy excess matter is now being dealt with 
as a separate complaint and so I wont comment on that here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repair issue
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence 
and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Mr R said as follows. His car was driveable before the accident and so the driveshaft issue 
must have been caused by the accident. He had checked his car after the accident and 
realised something was wrong as it was not driveable then. One of the recovery agents had 
agreed that his car was not driveable due to the accident and had confirmed that on a paper 
diagram report. His car could have been damaged further by a recovery agent who handled 
his car roughly when transporting it to UKIs garage. 
UKI said the damage to the driveshaft wasn't caused by the accident or by their recovery 
agents afterwards. Their qualified engineers assessed the damage and in their opinion the 
driveshaft would not have failed due to a minor rear impact.  If it had been damaged by the 
impact, they would also have expected to see impact damage elsewhere, and they hadnt. 
So they thought it was mechanical wear and tear which wasnt covered under the policy 
due to its  exclusions. They said when the first recovery agent came for the car it was 
already undriveable and couldnt be moved and they had to send another agent with 
different equipment to recover his car. So I think that suggests it was unlikely that the 
recovery agent made his car not driveable.  
Ive also seen the recovery agents paper diagram report . It shows that there was new 
damage to Mr Rs cars bumper and previous damage to all of the tyres. The recovery agent 
had also handwritten Non runner. Gear box failed since RTC. But UKI say that the recovery 
driver wasnt qualified to decide what damage the accident may have caused and what may 
have been pre-existing, and his comment could not override UKIs qualified engineers 
views. I think this is reasonable. And UKI offered, if Mr R got an independent report to prove 
their engineers opinion about the damage to the driveshaft was wrong, that they would 
repair his car and they would pay for this report. I think that was fair of them and its what we 
would expect an insurer to do in those circumstances. 
Mr R said hed got his car repaired by another garage who agreed that the driveshaft issue 
was caused by the accident. The garage sent a report saying The vehicle had already 
been repaired before coming to us, hence any damage to the rear bumper could not be 
seen but found that the off side rear drive shaft had failed on the inner cv joint which may 
have been due to the rear damage.
As the investigator explained to him, the garages report wasnt conclusive that the accident 
caused the driveshaft issue, it only said it may have. And it didnt explain how the accident 
could have caused it. It wasnt shown to be from an independent qualified engineer, and it 
didnt explain why they disagreed with the insurer's engineers opinion. So I dont think that 
was enough to suggest that UKI should pay for the repair, and I dont think they need to do 
any more there They have already offered to do what we would expect in the circumstances. 
 
Car hire  
Mr Rs policy entitled him to a small hatchback hire car while his own car was with UKIs  
garage for repair. But Mr R had expected a like for like automatic car, so he chose to 
upgrade his car hire option then. He was unhappy that UKI hadnt offered him a hire car 
upgrade option when he took out his policy. I think that what UKI offer customers is a 
commercial decision for them and so thats not something wed interfere with. But after Mr 
R had paid to upgrade the hire car, UKI still didnt offer him an upgrade car, and I dont 
think that was fair. UKI accepted that their service had not met his expectation in that 
regard and offered him compensation for that and said theyd give feedback to staff about 
the service they gave him. 
Mr R also felt that UKI tried to take the car hire back too soon. But Mr R was only entitled to 
a hire car while his own car was being repaired, and Mr R had shown that theyd given him 
fair notice him that his own car was ready to be collected and the hire car period would end 
then. UKI did however then extend the hire period for two weeks to avoid inconveniencing 
Mr R, and I think that was fair and went further than they had to under the policy.At a late stage in his complaint to us,  Mr R said that he had was missing funds from his 
bank which had been taken by the hire car company and they had refused to respond to his 
bank. The investigator recommended that if Mr R was claiming that the company had taken 
funds without his authorisation, he should raise that with his bank and ask them to follow 
their process and he could then raise a complaint against the bank if necessary. Despite 
the investigators requests, he has not shown why this has happened and provide evidence 
to show when the money was taken out and how much, and so I cant comment on that 
matter in this case. 
Poor service overall 
Mr R said that UKI didnt respond to emails and failed to call back and to keep him 
updated, and he had to deal with many different departments and people. The investigator 
thought that UKI acted fairly as theyd offered Mr R a total of £265 compensation. But Mr 
was reluctant to accept it. He felt that hed been victimised for complaining. 
UKI agreed that they and their garage hadnt liaised very well about his complaints with 
them but that hadnt delayed UKIs investigation. Ive read UKIs file and listen to the 
recordings of calls between him and them, and I think thats true, and I dont see anything 
which would suggest UKI victimised him. In total UKI offered him compensation of £265 
and gave him car hire for an additional period over and above what his policy entitled him 
to. And so although some of UKIs actions did cause Mr R inconvenience and distress ,and 
I can see that he felt very frustrated at times, I think that overall what theyve done and the 
level of compensation they have offered does fairly compensate for that. This means that I 
dont ask them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
