DRN-2497293
The complaint
Ms B complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (Kensington) failed to inform 
her that her husband Mr K, from whom she was separated, had applied for and obtained a 
payment holiday on their jointly held mortgage.
What happened
Ms B received a letter from Kensington in June 2020 stating that the payment holiday, or 
Deferral, on her mortgage was coming to an end. She knew nothing about this, so she 
contacted Kensington who told her that Mr K had applied for the deferral on 15 April of that 
year explaining that he was experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the Coronavirus 
pandemic. 
Kensington explained that given the unprecedented times caused by the pandemic which 
had led to a high volume of calls, it had at that time, been unable to send out notifications to 
any of the account holders since it didnt have the capacity to do so, and all the necessary 
information had been given to Mr K at the time of his call. 
Ms B was unhappy with Kensingtons final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Kensington had fairly 
applied the deferral and that had of itself avoided the likelihood of Ms Bs credit file being 
negatively impacted. Further as Kensington had given both parties the option to make 
payments within the deferral if they so wished, she did not think Ms B had lost out financially 
and so Kensington hadnt acted unfairly.
Ms B didnt agree and although she said she was not unhappy with the deferral being 
granted, she was unhappy with not being informed about it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has been very clear in stating that her complaint is not that the deferral was granted, 
only that she was not informed that Mr K had applied for and obtained it. Ms B has said that 
she told Kensington that she had moved out of the mortgaged property and the reasons for 
so doing. I do accept that Kensington would therefore have known that she was separated 
from Mr K. In normal times I am of the clear view that Kensington should most certainly have 
notified Ms B that Mr K had applied for a deferral, but his application has to be viewed in the 
context of the extraordinary time the country was going through. 
In general terms it is widely accepted that in April 2020 as the country went into its first 
lockdown the future everyone was facing was uncertain. All businesses were hugely affected 
as staff were required to work from home, if they could, and it follows from that that 
businesses ability to operate as they once had was severely restricted. Known examples of 
such operational difficulties are the issue of correspondence and communications with 
customers.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Kensington has said that it simply didnt have the 
capacity to send out notifications to all account holders and was effectively dealing with 
applications such as that made by Mr K on a verbal basis. I can accept that. I must also bear 
in mind that the financial services regulator has told mortgage lenders to act quickly to 
support their borrowers. So, whilst normally I would expect a business such as Kensington to 
notify Ms B of Mr Ks application, putting matters into context here, I cant say Kensington 
has acted unfairly in not doing so.
I take into account that Kensington did ultimately manage to write to Ms B on 12 June telling 
her that the deferral was coming to an end, and whilst that no doubt caused an element of 
shock and surprise, since that was the first Ms B knew of it, it was nevertheless a form of 
notification. This means that Ms B was actually only unaware of the deferral for a period of 
about eight weeks. But I have noted that Ms B was not unhappy with the deferral being 
granted in any event, and I can see that it was in her interests to have a three-month deferral 
since she was not making payments to the account and Mr K wanted the payment deferral. 
So had the deferral not been granted that would most likely have led to adverse credit 
reporting when the monthly payments were missed. Finally, I also consider that even if Ms B 
had been notified of Mr Ks application it was likely that Kensington would have granted it 
anyway, since it was a jointly held mortgage. 
So, whilst I perfectly understand Ms Bs position, I cant see that she has been prejudiced, 
and given the overall circumstances I dont think Kensington ought to have notified her of Mr 
Ks application sooner than it did on this particular occasion. 
So, although Ms B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say that 
Kensington has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman