DRN-2777620
The complaint
Mr M complains about his Contract for Differences (CFD) trading account with Trading 212 
UK Limited. He says Trading 212 incorrectly closed two Oil positions he held causing him 
increased losses, as well as impacting other positions he had open.
What happened
Mr M opened two CFD October 2020 WTI Crude Oil positions  900 lots at $35.185 and 210 
lots at $35.630. Trading 212 closed these positions on 28 May 2020 at $32.183 saying that 
the stop orders Mr M placed at $33.297 and $33.047 respectively had exercised. The close 
out led to losses of around £2,800. 
Trading 212 said that the order type Mr M placed was a stop order which when triggered, 
placed a trade at the next available market price. Mr M thought his losses were caused by 
issues with Trading 212s systems  he said the closures caused him loss, left him unable to 
open other trades and impacted his account by other positions being closed out causing 
further losses.
Trading 212 looked into the concerns raised by Mr M  initially it made an offer to recognise 
the difference in Mr Ms stop and the price he achieved. It then reconsidered its position and 
made what it called a goodwill offer to refund the c£2,800 hed lost. Mr M didnt accept the 
offer as he wanted compensation too, so he asked for our help. Trading 212 later withdrew 
its offer following further investigation. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt think Trading 212 had done 
anything wrong. She explained that the price Trading 212 closed Mr Ms positions at, 
factoring other aspects such as the spread and slippage in prices, followed the market and 
so was in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt agree, he said the Bloomberg pricing data Trading 212 was relying on was for 
another product and that there was no evidence that showed the price reached $32.183  
especially on Trading 212s platform, which was crucial as it was the respondent business 
here, not Bloomberg  instead the evidence showed the price only reached $32.20. He 
shared charts which highlighted the price hadnt ever fallen so far. He also disputed the 
screenshots Trading 212 said he wouldve seen when setting his order instructions. Our 
investigator thought about what had been said but wasnt persuaded to change her view of 
the complaint. 
Mr M still didnt agree so, as an agreement wasnt reached, the matter was passed to me to 
decide. Mr M sent an email for my consideration and said, in summary:
I ought to ignore the investigators assessment as despite him pointing out her 
oversights, she had not shown she was willing to change her position.
Trading 212s investigation took several weeks  but not once had it been able to 
show that the price reached $32.183 on the Oil-Oct 20 chart on 28 May 2020 at 
10:58am GMT. Instead, he had provided us with screenshots showing it didnt reach 
that level. If Trading 212 could show this, he would concede.
He wasnt pursuing a case against Bloomberg, so sharing their data was irrelevant  
even if Trading 212 used Bloomberg at the time, its prices ought to have reflected the 
same movements.
The investigator didnt understand that Bloombergs price of $32.20 was still higher 
than the $32.183 he was closed at  so this proved the low he was closed at wasnt 
reached. 
The Bloomberg data was for the November contract, not the October contract  this 
was wrong as the contracts roll over on the last day of the month, not 11 days prior. 
With reference to the message our investigator said appeared when putting in a stop 
order, set a price below the current price that converts your order to a market order 
he didnt agree this appeared and said it wasnt anything to do with a stop loss  
instead it was likely to do with placing an order when the market was closed. So this 
wasnt relevant here.
He didnt think it was fair that Trading 212 took 10 weeks to investigate and had then 
withdrawn its offer, yet he had eight weeks to refer the matter to us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I would like Mr M to know that I appreciate his strength of feeling about his 
complaint and I assure him that my review is based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. However, although I appreciate this will disappoint him, 
I also dont think Trading 212 has done anything wrong here. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms Trading 212 account records show that he entered into the two Oil positions he 
complains of and that a stop had been set on the trades to sell at levels of $33.297 and 
$33.047. These levels arent in dispute, but the type and execution of the order is  including 
the price subsequently used to close the position.
At 11 in the Customer Agreement, it says:
11. Making Deals: Types of Orders.
11.5.2.1 Stop Loss order - it is used to close the open position at a certain 
loss. The platform may show you the target loss in the currency of your 
account. This information is indicative and not guaranteed.
11.5.3.1 Stop/Limit  this is either a Stop order or a Limit order. The 
trading platform shall automatically set the type of the order according to the 
current market price and the specified price.
Looking at the records of the order the type is stop with the price set at $33.297 and 
$33.047 to trigger the orders  Ive not seen anything to suggest this order was incorrectly 
recorded by Trading 212 and so on balance, Im satisfied this is the order Mr M entered  
whether he intended to or not.The terms of the account, order execution policy, as well as the information on Trading 212s 
website is sufficiently clear in setting out the difference and what happens for each of these 
order types. The stop order Mr M set on this trade would set a market order for these 
positions once the price met or fell through the price he set. So, when the market price fell 
below this level, the order was executed according to the next available market price at the 
time. And at 6.6 in the Customer Agreement it says:
6.6. You agree that all pending Orders ('Stop' Orders) placed by you may be 
executed at a price different from the specified one in the case of sharp fluctuations 
in the price of the instrument.
This is further explained within the Order Execution Policy, at 2 Execution Factors it says:
The Company obtains the price from third-party external reference sources. The 
Companys prices can be found on the Companys trading platform. The prices are 
updated as frequently as the limitations of technology and communications links 
allow but should be considered an indication of the live market price rather than a 
quotation The Company reviews its third-party external reference sources from day 
to day to ensure that the data obtained is as timely and accurate as can be. When 
the price reaches an order set by you, for example: Stop Loss, Take Profit, Trailing 
Stop, Market Order, Limit Order, these orders are executed immediately. However, 
under certain trading conditions there is a possibility that these orders (Stop loss, 
Take Profit, Trailing Stop, Market Order, Limit) cannot be executed at the Client's 
requested price. When this happens, the Company has the right to execute the order 
at the first available price. This may occur, for example, at times of rapid price 
fluctuations if the price rises or falls in one trading session to such an extent that, 
under the rules of the relevant exchange, trading is suspended or restricted. Such 
fluctuation can result in a better or worse price being received. (my emphasis)
Trading 212 says the next available price was $32.183, which Mr M disputes as being a fair 
price. When thinking about this, I think its important to note that the key point here is that 
Mr Ms position was a CFD with Trading 212. Broadly speaking, Trading 212 can set its 
prices for its CFDs as it has commercial discretion to do so, we would just expect the prices 
it quotes to broadly reflect the underlying market  here the October 2020 Crude Oil futures 
contracts  and this is in line with its terms. 
At 17 in the Customer Agreement, it says:
17. Trading with CFDs on Futures.
17.1. Clauses 16.2 to 16.3.5 shall apply to trading with CFDs on Futures.
Which includes:
16.3. Prices, interests and commissions
16.3.1. The price of the CFD changes on an intra-day basis and is close or 
equal to the exchange price of the respective base instrument (being a Stock, 
Index or Futures).
Trading 212 provided market data from Bloomberg to show how the market was trading at 
the time. While I understand Mr Ms concerns around this pricing information, Bloomberg is 
widely regarded as an independent and reliable source for pricing in financial markets. 
Though based on the November contract given availability of data when the complaint was 
made, I consider it a fair representation of the market trading of his Oil futures position at the 
time the stop order was triggered. Our consideration of the Bloomberg data doesnt mean 
were considering this complaint about them rather than about Trading 212 as Mr M implies 
 instead, were considering the data as its from a third-party external reference source 
which is what Trading 212 said it would rely on and base its prices on. The information from Bloomberg does show immediately before Mr Ms positions were 
closed that the market was trading around $33.93 and $33.94  above the stop price set. It 
then for a moment fell to $32.20  as this was below Mr Ms stop price, the order went to 
market and when taking into account Trading 212s spread, was filled at $32.183. As I 
highlighted above, the Order Execution Policy accounts for when orders are not filled at set 
levels and gives Trading 212 the right to execute at the next available price. Mr M wouldve 
agreed to these terms  as well as the other relevant policies  when opening the account, 
and Ive not seen that Trading 212 has unfairly applied them here as the order was executed 
as Mr M set it.
I appreciate Mr M has shared charts with us which dont show the price having gone quite so 
low, but I am mindful that the trade was based on CFDs, which are derivatives and are not 
expected to bear identical prices to the underlying. Trading 212 is entitled to rely on its third-
party provider and its price was within reasonable proximity of the underlying market. So 
although I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling on this issue, I havent seen any evidence 
that Trading 212 has done anything wrong here.
Though Im sorry to see Mr M lost money on these trades, I dont think Trading 212 is 
responsible for the losses given the order was executed as it shouldve been and wasnt 
caused by any technical issues.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman