DRN-3976585
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Bastion Insurance Company Limiteds (Bastion) handling of a claim 
made under his warranty. 
What happened
Mr Ns television was damaged, so he made a claim under his policy. Bastion arranged for 
an inspection to be carried out, but the engineer concluded the television couldnt be 
repaired. 
In July 2022, Bastion made an offer to Mr N. It said as the television was manufactured in 
2013, the policy required it to pay 50% of the of the price of a similar model. It said a suitable 
replacement had been found on sale for £429, so the settlement offered was for half of this 
amount. Mr N declined the offer. He said the offer should be based on the recommended 
retail price but had been based on a website offering a discount. He also said the offer was 
based on a 2021 model but didnt understand why when he had identified a suitable 
replacement manufactured in 2022. He said there were some similarities to the functionality 
of the television he had, but there were a number of areas where the model used to make 
the offer differed to his. 
Bastion said the offer had been made in line with the policy terms, but sometimes it wasnt 
possible to match the exact specification of the original appliance. Mr N complained and 
Bastion responded, but it didnt change the offer made.
Mr N referred his complaint to this service. He said he understood the settlement value 
would be at 50% of the price that would be paid for a similar model. But he didnt think the 
television model selected was a suitable comparison. Mr N also said he thought he was 
paying a higher premium than necessary, and the policy might have been mis-sold. 
His complaint was referred to one of our investigators. She thought Bastions explanation for 
the settlement offered was reasonable and in line with the policy terms. She also thought 
Bastion had been clear in setting out how claims would be settled. She said the complaint 
about the premiums charged and suggestion the policy had been mis-sold needed to be 
raised with Bastion first, as it hadnt been before the complaint was referred to us. Mr N 
accepted this but didnt agree the offer was fair, so this case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering whether the model quoted by Bastion was a fair model for it to 
use to base the settlement on. I understand there was some functionality Mr N liked in his 
original television that he hoped to maintain (such as the number of HDMI and Scart ports, 
and the voice control). However, I find myself persuaded by Bastions argument these could 
be difficult to replicate in their entirety given the time that has passed since Mr N purchased 
the television, and the developments in technology. 
Bastion says the alternative model proposed by Mr N had a significantly lower picture quality 
despite being released in 2022, whereas the model it identified had a better picture quality 
and was released in 2021. They acknowledged the point Mr N made about the model it 
selected having fewer HDMI ports than his original television, but they said this was 
consistent with other televisions within the same range. From what Ive seen, both models 
identified by Mr N and Bastion had three HDMI ports, rather than the four Mr N hoped for. 
Bastion says it sought advice from the manufacturer, who confirmed both the television 
models identified would be suitable replacements. But Bastion considered the television it 
picked, while cheaper, was of a higher specification.
Ultimately, I need to bear in mind that it would be up to Mr N to decide how he spent the 
settlement from Bastion. As in, Mr N isnt required to purchase the model it identified, 
Bastion only needs to demonstrate the model it selected was a similar make and quality to 
the model Mr N claimed for. Bastion doesnt need to consider which of the various functions 
available on the model it selected would be most used by Mr N, though I can understand 
why hed hope it would take account of his view here.
I appreciate the manufacturer agreed the television model Mr N identified could be 
considered an appropriate replacement for the model he had, but this doesnt mean Bastion 
had to base its settlement figure on the model selected by Mr N. The policy terms allow it to 
use the lowest cost. 
Its not in dispute the age of Mr Ns television means hes entitled to a settlement figure of 
50%. Mr N questioned if, when putting forward their settlement figure, it was fair for Bastion 
to use a price lower than the recommended retail price. And in deciding if that was fair, Ive 
considered the below policy terms, which say:
The single claim limit is defined as either the Declared Value, the Original 
Purchase Price, the Repair Cost or the Replacement Cost whichever is the lower.
Bastion said in quoting the price it did, the model identified was available for purchase from 
two high street retailers. With that approach in mind, and the policy term which allows 
Bastion to base its offer on the lowest cost, I dont think it acted unreasonably, as the price 
quoted would have complied with the above policy term allowing it to use the lowest cost. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied the rationale provided by Bastion for selecting the model it did was 
fair and reasonable and in line with the policy terms. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, Im 
not going to require Bastion to increase the offer.
As Mr N agreed he hadnt complained to Bastion about the price of the premiums or his view 
the policy might have been mis-sold before referring his complaint to us. So, I cant consider 
this point further. If Mr N is unhappy with the response he receives from Bastion, he can 
refer this part of his complaint back to us.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman