DRN-4256655
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the settlement shes been offered by U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Privilege Car Insurance (UKI) after she made a claim under her car insurance policy. Shes 
also unhappy with the delay in being provided with a hire car.
What happened
Ms Rs car was damaged, so she made a claim to UKI, her car insurance provider. 
UKI deemed the car a total loss and offered a settlement which they said was market value, 
they also deducted 20% from this amount as the car was previously a total loss. The total 
settlement offer before excess deduction was £3,402. 
Ms R believes the settlement should be higher and has provided online adverts which she 
said show this. She was also unhappy with the delay in a hire car being provided during the 
claim. 
UKI offered £100 compensation for the delay in a hire car being provided, but the settlement 
offered remained the same.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said the settlement 
offer made by UKI was fair, so she didnt recommend it be increased. She also said the 
compensation offer made by UKI was reasonable, so she didnt recommend UKI do anything 
further.
Ms R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
I should also explain that the only complaint points Im considering here in my final decision 
are the settlement offer made by UKI and how they reached that amount, and the delay in 
providing a hire car. 
Recently Ms R has mentioned additional complaint points to this service. However, she 
hasnt yet raised these with UKI, so they havent yet had the opportunity to consider or 
address these and they need to have the opportunity to in the first instance, before our 
service becomes involved. 
Therefore, our investigator has made UKI aware of these additional points and asked them 
to issue a new final response to Ms R. If Ms R remains unhappy after UKI has done this and 
with the outcome they reach, she may be able to bring a new separate complaint to this 
service.
Ms Rs policy says in the event a car is written-off UKI can pay up to the market value. This 
is defined in the policy as:
Market Value The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and 
model, and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
UKI determined the market value of Ms Rs car using valuations obtained through industry 
trade guides and an average of the two valuations obtained. These were the only industry 
trade guides that could provide a valuation based on the age of the vehicle. Ive seen the 
valuations and they were based on the correct vehicle and mileage at the time of loss, these 
resulted in valuations of:
Glass £3,980
CAP £4,525
Average £4,253
After averaging the two valuations, UKI then deducted 20% as Ms Rs car was previously a 
total loss. This resulted in a settlement amount of £3,402 prior to excess deduction. 
As outlined to Ms R by our investigator, this services typical approach when considering 
complaints about the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market 
leading motor trade guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that this service generally finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells 
for after negotiation.
I also note that the adverts provided by Ms R are for similar vehicles, but some are different 
ages and some with considerably lower mileage, which is likely to have an impact on the 
overall price.
I also dont think its unreasonable for UKI to deduct 20% from the market value if the vehicle 
was previously a total loss. This is to take into account a vehicle being previously written off 
can put off buyers and therefore can affect the value. As UKI has followed the approach we take in cases such as this, I think the valuation 
reached by UKI is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive considered the additional 
information and points Ms R has provided, but this isnt sufficient to persuade me the 
valuation reached by UKI was unfair or unreasonable. Therefore, I wont be directing them to 
increase this.
Ms R is also unhappy with the delay in a hire car being provided. UKI accepts there was a 
delay but explained this was because a seven-seat vehicle was required, and there was 
limited availability. UKI has paid £100 compensation for the delay, and I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to direct them to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman