DRN-4158575
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a holiday 
product exchange he undertook in 2013.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Ws, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Ws name, Ill refer to Mr and 
Mrs W throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an existing timeshare membership with a third party (the Supplier). They 
say they were concerned about the increasing maintenance costs and their ability to 
continue to make use of their membership given their age. When they raised this, they were 
told the membership was taken out in perpetuity and would pass to their children on the 
death of Mr and Mrs W. Mr W says they didnt want the obligations of the membership 
passed to their children. They were then told they could exit the agreement if they paid an 
exit fee of £4,799. They were told this would remove their entitlement to the 60,001 points 
they had acquired in 2007 and the removed points would be replaced with 80,000 annual 
exit points which would be allocated for the years of 2015 and 2016 (2014 wasnt in the new 
agreement as the maintenance fee for that year had already been paid and so they could 
make use of their previous agreement points for 2014). The new agreement would end in 
December 2016.
Mr W says the new agreement was misrepresented because:
They were told the only way to exit their previous timeshare membership was to pay 
the fee, but they have since realised that being sold a membership in perpetuity is 
illegal. Therefore, the Supplier wasnt allowed to charge the exit fee with the 
conditions they set out.
They were told they were paying an exit fee and werent ever told they were buying a 
new membership. They didnt need the additional 20,000 points that were provided 
as a replacement as they had been happy with their previous 60,001 membership 
points.
They were told they needed to purchase 80,000 points for £4,799 to exit the 
agreement but subsequently found the cost to exit the agreement was the purchase 
of 60,000 points costing £2,799.
Mr W also complained that:
They were unable to use their full allocation of points by end December 2016 and 
were told these could be used in 2017 but when they tried to book a holiday in Spring 
2017, they werent allowed. So, they lost the use of around 30,000 points.
The representatives used aggressive sales techniques to convince them into the 
agreement and to make a payment on the day and they werent told about their 
cancellation rights for the new agreement.
Nationwide considered Mr Ws claim under Section 75 of the CCA. It noted that for a valid 
claim under Section 75, there needed to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement 
in place. It said that the party Mr W paid using his Nationwide credit card was different to the 
holiday club membership provider and so there was no valid DCS agreement.
Mr W didnt agree with Nationwide and said evidence had been provided to show a valid 
DCS agreement was in place. Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint, and this was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator found evidence to support there being a valid DCS agreement. They put this 
to Nationwide and this was accepted. Our investigator considered the merits of Mr Ws 
complaint and issued a view in June 2022. They found that Mr and Mrs W had been given a 
deal to exit their original timeshare agreement and part of this involved the transfer of their 
existing points for the allocation of 80,000 new points for use in 2015 and 2016. They didnt 
find that a misrepresentation had occurred and so they didnt think Nationwides decision to 
decline the Section 75 claim was unfair.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He provided further submissions supporting 
his claim that they had been mis-sold the new agreement in order to exit a previous 
agreement and that they had also been overcharged in the process.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. The following sets out my findings.
Was the right arrangement in place?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) is a 
precondition to claims under that provision.
Nationwide initially declined Mr Ws section 75 claim due to the required DCS agreement not 
being in place. I have looked at the information provided and can see that Mr Ws credit card 
payment was made to a name different to the Supplier as noted on the purchase agreement. 
That said, the purchase agreement states that all payments should be made to the Supplier 
and based on further evidence provided by our investigator, Nationwide accepted that the 
DCS agreement was in place. Given this I have considered the merits of this complaint.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 and the CCA, there needs to have been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. Mr W has explained that in 2007 he was encouraged to 
increase his holiday club points from 40,000 to 60,001. Mr W has said that after purchasing 
the additional points he realised this wasnt beneficial due to the increasing maintenance 
costs which is what led to the meeting in 2013 about exiting the agreement.
I do not have a copy of the agreement from 2007 (or the original purchase agreement) nor 
do I have the details of how the payment for the extra points were made. So I cannot say 
whether the costs were made clear or that the ongoing nature of the agreement was 
disclosed. However, noting the timing of the purchase I think any claim for misrepresentation 
under the 2007 agreement (or previous purchase agreements) would likely fall outside of the 
time limits under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). I say this because a Section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the 
limitation period under that provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs W 
entered into the purchase agreement because they entered into the agreement based on the 
alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. As the claim wasnt made 
until 2019, I think its likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set out in the LA.
Mr Ws claim is in regard to the agreement entered into in 2013. He has been consistent in 
his testimonies that his and Mrs Ws intention was to exit their obligations and not to take on 
any further commitments. I therefore find it reasonable to accept that Mr and Mrs W only 
entered the 2013 agreement as a way to exit the 2007 agreement. 
The 2013 agreement sets out that all points from the previous agreement are transferred 
which meant all management charges and maintenance costs were transferred. As part of 
the 2013 agreement new points were allocated for holidays in 2015 and 2016. While this is 
clearly set out, I accept that Mr and Mrs W only accepted this agreement (including the 
additional points) because it was presented as the only way available for them to exit the 
previous agreement obligations.
As I havent seen a copy of the 2007 agreement, I cannot say whether there were options to 
exit at no additional costs. But having looked at the information provided along with the 2013 
agreement there is a statement that the minimum purchase price to become a member of 
the club  Exit is 60,000 points for £2,799. This is a lower amount than Mr W paid.
Accepting that Mr and Mrs Ws intention was to exit their obligations, I find it reasonable to 
accept they would have done this at the minimum cost available to them. While I do not have 
evidence to show they should have been able to exit at no cost, the evidence does appear to 
support an option to exit at a cost of £2,799 and I find it reasonable that had Mr and Mrs W 
known about this option (rather than being led to believe that the only option was to pay 
£4,799) then they would have taken it. On balance, I think the price of exiting this agreement 
was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W and because of this I think Mr W should be refunded 
the difference between the amount he paid and the lower exit cost, being a refund of £2,000.
Mr W has also noted that the Supplier stated it was a member of the Resort Development 
Organisation (RDO) which he has said was untrue as the RDO confirmed the Supplier 
wasnt a member in 2013. This appears, on balance, to be a further misrepresentation. 
However, it isnt clear that a misrepresentation regarding the RDO resulted in any material 
disadvantage for Mr W and without this I do not find I need to consider this issue further. 
Section 75: Breach of contract
Mr W says they were unable to use all of the points by end of December 2016 due to issues 
with the resorts they wished to stay at. On my reading of this complaint, this strikes me as an 
allegation of breach of contract.
However, there is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs W were told these resorts would be 
available to them at the time they wanted, and I understand they were able to book other 
holidays in this period. Due to the issues they asked to be able to book a holiday in spring 
2017 and while I can see this was agreed this was on the basis the holiday was booked 
before the end of December 2016. I cannot see that this happened and as the points were 
valid until the end of December 2016, I cannot say that when Mr W made contact in 2017 
about booking a holiday and was told his points had expired that this was a breach of 
contract.So, in regard to this issue, I cant say that theres been a breach of contract that Nationwide 
is likely to be jointly liable for.
Conclusion
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W may be unhappy with the product they purchased, and I 
accept that they want a full refund. However, in this case based on the evidence I have seen 
I do not find I have enough to say that should happen. But I do think it reasonable to accept 
that they would have taken the reduced cost exit option had this been made available to 
them and without evidence to explain why this wasnt given as an option, I find it reasonable 
to accept the exit cost was misrepresented and that Mr W should be refunded £2,000.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision. Mr W provided further evidence in support of 
his claim for the full £4,799 paid in 2013 to be refunded. Mr W requested that specific 
consideration be given to the calculations he had provided as part of this investigation as 
well as other specific emails he had sent.
Mr W explained that he didnt have copies of the 2003 and 2007 purchase agreements and 
didnt expect to be able to get copies of these, but he remembered that they simply 
contained information about the points purchased, price and date of commencement and no 
exit details were included. He said they wouldnt have entered the agreement had they 
known they would be charged to exit. Mr W confirmed that the 2007 agreement was not 
financed by Nationwide. 
Mr W said that perpetuity wasnt mentioned until his meeting in 2013 when he and Mrs W 
raised it. It was then that they were told they couldnt exit the agreement. After challenge 
they were then told they could exit if they paid the £4,799 exit fee. Mr W said it wasnt fair to 
impose a fee that wasnt included in the details of the purchase. The 2013 agreement was 
then presented, and this didnt mention the exit fee but instead the purchase of new points. 
Mr W said they questioned certain clauses and were told they couldnt exit their points 
without entering the new contract. Mr W said that the only "requirement" to exit the previous 
agreements for 60,001 points was to sign to transfer them back to the Supplier. The annual 
maintenance obligations had already been paid for 2013 and 2014 prior to the meeting in 
2013. 
Mr W reiterated that the 2013 agreement was misrepresented and that there shouldnt have 
been a requirement on them to buy a new investment to exit an existing one. Mr W 
referenced the calculations he had provided previously which he said supported his claim of 
a mis-sale. Mr W said that due to the evidence he had provided of misrepresentation and 
mis-sale the full purchase price of £4,799 should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.As parts of my provisional decision havent been challenged by either party, I do not intend 
to revisit them, and my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision remain unaltered. 
Instead, I will focus on the issue that remains in dispute which is Mr Ws claim that due to the 
2013 agreement being misrepresented and mis-sold he should receive a full refund of 
£4,799 rather than the partial refund of £2,000 I set out in my provisional decision.
Firstly, I appreciate the detailed response Mr W has provided to my provisional decision and 
for confirming his knowledge of his previous 2003 and 2007 agreements in regard to their 
content and also that the 2007 agreement wasnt financed by Nationwide. This decision is 
about the 2013 agreement, but Mr Ws recollection of the previous agreements provides 
useful context.
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept, based on the testimonies provided that Mr and 
Mrs W only entered the 2013 agreement as a way to exit the 2007 agreement. I note Mr Ws 
recollection that the 2007 agreement didnt contain any information regarding a cost to exit 
but I also note that there is no evidence to say that it would be possible to exit the agreement 
at no cost. Mr W has said that charges cant be applied to exit perpetuity contracts under 
Spanish and Portuguese law but in this case, the contract is between an Irish based 
company and Mr and Mrs W in the UK. I have therefore looked again at the purchase 
agreement to see if there is information contained within it that changes my provisional 
conclusion.
I note Mr Ws comment about the clauses in the 2013 purchase agreement being separate in 
regard to the purchase of 80,000 points for £4,799 and the transfer of his existing points. 
However the agreement is clearly titled as an Exit agreement and so I find it reasonable to 
accept that the deal which is presented includes the terms of the exit which in this case is 
the removal of the obligations under Mr and Mrs Ws previous agreements and the purchase 
of the new points. So, while I appreciate what Mr W is saying I do not find that I have 
evidence that there was an option available to exit at no cost.
Mr W asked that I look at his calculations and I have done so (and had previously 
considered these before issuing my provisional decision but as I didnt refer to them, I 
understand why Mr W has noted these). I agree that these show that the charge applied in 
the purchase agreement of £4,799 for 80,000 points does not link to the minimum price for 
exit set out in the accompanying information of £2,799 for 60,000 points. I can see why Mr W 
feels this shows the purchase agreement was misrepresented. But in this case, as I find that 
the lower exit price should have been offered, I find this is the relevant amount to consider.
As I previously said, I do not find evidence that there was an option for Mr and Mrs W to exit 
their obligations without any ongoing costs but there is evidence that the exit could have 
happened at a minimum cost of £2,799. Therefore, I find that this is the amount they should 
have been offered and accept that had this been offered as an alternative they would have 
paid this rather than the £4,799.
I understand why Mr W believes he should be refunded the full purchase cost but in this 
case I think, on balance, the fair resolution is for a refund of £2,000 to reflect the additional 
amount Mr W paid beyond what appears to be the minimum exit price. I also note that Mr W 
has said that he booked holidays in 2015 and 2016 using the points he purchased in 2013 
and so I cannot say that he has had no benefit from these.
So, while I understand Mr W may be disappointed by this decision, I do not find I can say 
that Nationwide is required to refund the full purchase but instead, £2,000 (along with 
interest) as it has agreed.Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should, as it has agreed, refund Mr W £2,000 (being the 
difference between the amount he paid and the recorded minimum cost of exit) with simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date the claim was declined until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman