DRN-2915603
The complaint
Mr P complains about the transfer of his ISA from Invesco Fund Managers Limited, referred
to as Invesco or the transferor to a new provider, referred to as the transferee.
What happened
In my provisional decision of late June 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms part 
of this final decision, I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite what Mr P says, Im not persuaded that Invesco behaved unreasonably.
I appreciate what the investigator says about both parties being at fault, but whether (or not)
the transferee is to blame, Im only considering the actions of Invesco in this complaint, and
having done so, on balance, I dont think its responsible for the delays. In other words,
whether (or not) a third-party is at fault, I dont think that Invesco is to blame for not being
able to complete the transfer within 30 calendar days.
I should make clear that Im also considering the complaint against the transferee but as a
separate case.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Ps strength of feeling
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr P and Invesco, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice.
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
The chronology of events suggest that Invesco received the request (at the correct location)
on 14 February 2020. Im mindful that Mr P had opened a new account with the transferee
on 26 January 2020 and signed (and returned) a transfer authority to the transferee on 27
January 2020. In this instance, I cant blame Invesco for not being able to start work on the
transfer sooner than 14 February 2020.
I note that on 20 February 2020  within four working days of receiving the request  Invesco
sent the valuation to the transferee by post. Theres nothing to suggest that this was an
incorrect method of correspondence or delivery at the time.
In other words, theres nothing to say that businesses should only send documents by
recorded delivery during an ISA transfer. Its not a regulatory requirement or common
industry practice, therefore Invesco hasnt behaved unreasonably by sending documents in
the post.
Its not clear why, but by 28 February 2020, the transferee still hadnt received a copy of the
valuation. I note that on 2 March 2020, Mr P raised his concerns with Invesco, but I dont
think that it was aware of any issue prior to this. In the circumstances, I think its likely that
Invesco was waiting for the transferee to send its acceptance of the valuation, before it could
proceed.
After Mr P raised the issue, I note that Invesco immediately reported the matter to its
investigations team, and on 5 March 2020 (the next day), Invesco confirmed that the
valuation was sent on 20 February 2020, and in due course on 11 March 2020 sent another
copy of the valuation after being requested to do so.
On balance, I dont think that this means that Invesco is responsible for Mr Ps losses. I note
at this point Mr P raised a complaint with the transferee, for not responding to the valuation.
Im mindful that on 10 March 2020 the transferee received a copy of the valuation. On 
balance, I think this was the valuation sent by Invesco on 20 February 2020, as theres no 
record of another being sent before 11 March 2020.
Its possible that there was an issue with the post but if that was the case that isnt
something Invesco caused, and I cant hold it responsible for the actions of a third-party
postal service. But it is unusual that a document would take 20 or so calendar days for
delivery.
Im mindful that the response from the transferee  sent on 10 March 2020 accepting
Invescos valuation  doesnt appear to have been received by Invesco. Im aware that two
subsequent copies were sent on 19 March and 30 March 2020 and Invesco finally received
a copy of the acceptance on 31 March 2020, but only after it had sent at least two 
chasers/reminders. Nevertheless, I note that Invesco couldnt progress matters until it had
heard back from the transferee with an acceptance.
Invesco, having received a copy of the acceptance, sold the holdings immediately and sent a
cheque to the transferee on 3 April 2020, bringing the matter, so far as it was concerned, to
an end. It only sent another cheque on 24 April 2020, after it was contacted by the transferee
on 22 April 2020, to say that it hadnt received the cheque.
In the circumstances, I dont think theres much more that Invesco couldve reasonably done,
other than to issue a new cheque after it was notified of the first cheque not being received.
So, Im not persuaded that Invesco is responsible, for the further delays after receipt of the
copy of acceptance.
I should clarify that businesses generally have between 15 and 30 working days 
depending on the type of ISA  within which to successfully complete an ISA transfer. Just
because a business doesnt perform a text book perfect transaction doesnt of itself mean
that it has done something wrong.
In this instance, in conclusion, Im unable to say that Invesco made any errors or thats what
led to delays. I note that Invesco received a copy of the transfer request on 14 February
2020  even though Mr P signed (and returned) a transfer authority form to the transferee on
27 January 2020. Im aware that Invesco then sent the valuation on 20 February 2020, but it
wasnt received until 10 March 2020, even though Invesco sent additional copies.
Despite chasing the transferee, Invesco eventually received an acceptance on 31 March
2020. It immediately sold Mr Ps holdings and issued a cheque on 3 April 2020, bringing the
matter to an end. Invesco only issued a second cheque on 24 April 2020, after it was notified(on 22 April 2020) that the first hadnt been received. Prior to this it wouldnt have been
aware of any issues.
I appreciate the points made by Mr P, but whilst delays can occur where one or both parties
are to blame, sometimes delays can also occur that arent anyones fault. In the
circumstances  during a busy time of year, involving another business, l cant safely say
that Invesco is responsible for Mr Ps losses.
I appreciate the investigators comments regarding the cheque payment, but in the
circumstances, Im not persuaded that Invesco did anything wrong by making payment in
this way. Im aware that some businesses might use alternative methods, however I think
Invesco was entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  to
pay the funds in any permissible way, which included cheque payment. Im mindful that
because the holdings had been sold so it didnt affect the cash value, so I cant hold Invesco
responsible for any subsequent loss.
I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face
of the available evidence, and on balance, provisionally Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give him what he wants.
Mr P responded and accepted the provisional decision. In short, he said:
I have nothing to add to my earlier correspondence with your office. I am satisfied that 
Invesco was unable to make progress with the transfer without (the transferee) taking the 
necessary actions beforehand and that they acted quickly when told by me that problems 
and delays were occurring.
Invesco also responded and said:
We too have nothing further to add and are happy for you to progress this case to the final
decision/closure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new submissions from either party, my decision remains the 
same as set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, in this instance Im not persuaded that Invesco 
behaved unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman