DRN-3443446
The complaint
Mr S complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to give him a point of sale loan to fund the purchase of a
timeshare agreement for timeshare weeks) without checking if he could afford to pay back
what he owed. He also believes BPF was wrong to reject claims he made arising out of the
transaction.
I gather the agreement is in the joint names of Mr S and his wife, but the loan agreement
is in Mr Ss sole name. This means Mr S is the complainant who is eligible to bring a
complaint to our service so Ive referred to him alone in this decision.
Mr S is represented by a firm of solicitors but I will refer to everything thats been
said on his behalf as if Mr S said it himself.
What happened
Mr S purchased the timeshare in September 2008 with a loan from BPF. The loan which 
was repaid in March 2009 was for £2,950 which I presume was the sum paid to the 
timeshare company which I will refer to as H going forward.
Mr S says misrepresentations were made, he was pressurised during the sale process 
and no affordability checks were done. He says H was aware of his financial status but 
didnt take that into account. He says it was reckless and failed to carry out due diligence. 
He claims the agreement was long and complex and he wasnt able to fully understand it.
BPF thinks it is too late, under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), for Mr S to bring claims under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). BPF also considers Mr S is 
out of time to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under our rules.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She was satisfied that we can consider Mr
Ss complaint for the following reasons:
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
{a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit Act, a business is 
exercising its rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may 
then complain if they feel that a business has failed to fulfil its obligations under this 
credit agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their 
claim.
Our investigator said that in this case the event complained of was BPFs decision on 3 
September 2018 to reject the claim Mr S made regarding the timeshare, rather than the 
sale itself. Mr S then complained to us in September 2018, which is well within the
six-year time limit specified in the rules. As such he concluded we were able to consider 
the complaint.
The investigator went on to consider the merits and said:
under section 75 BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so, if the 
time for bringing a claim against the supplier has expired under the LA, this would 
be the same for any like claim against BPF - which is something BPF could 
reasonably take into account;
Mr S raises allegations of misrepresentation, he has six years under the LA to 
bring his claim and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and 
contract.
BPF also argued that or bringing a claim against the supplier has expired under the LA, 
this would be the same for any like claim against BPF - which is something BPF could 
reasonably take into account.
Mr S raises allegations of misrepresentation, he has six years under the LA to 
bring his claim and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and 
contract;
misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has 
suffered damage and any damage would have occurred here when Mr S 
experienced a financial loss as a result of purchasing the product (in that, Mr S 
says the purchase caused financial loss due to the suppliers misrepresentations 
and he wouldnt have bought the product except for those misrepresentations);
this means the point of loss for Mr S was when he entered into the transaction to 
buy the product in September 2008 (and accepted the cost and any potential 
benefit) so Mr S needed to raise his section 75 claim no later than September 
2014 but he didnt complain to BPF until March 2018;
Mr S may not have known that he could raise concerns about misrepresentation 
before that but the relevant time limit starts to run from the date of loss, which 
may fall earlier than the date he realised that something might have gone 
wrong;
under section 140A of the CCA a court may make an order under section 140B if it 
is determined that the relationship between the creditor and debtor arising out of 
the agreement is unfair to the debtor - only a court has the power to decide this 
but section 140A is relevant law that we need to take into consideration;
the LA applies to a section 140A claim, Mr S had six years to bring such a claim 
and he would have needed to do so no later than March 2015 but he didnt 
complaint to BPF until 2018 meaning this claim is more than likely time barred;
The investigator thought Mr Ss claims had more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits. And, although this for the courts to decide, its not unreasonable for BPF to take 
this into account. He wasnt persuaded that BPFs decision to decline Mr Ss claims was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances and she didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. His representatives 
have made fairly detailed submissions. I have summarised these below.
no affordability checks were undertaken and the lending was irresponsible 
and unaffordable;
high pressure sales tactics were used  amongst other things, Mr S attended a 
sales event which lasted six to seven hours, he wasnt allowed to leave and had to 
sign complex contractual documentation without the chance to review it properly;
Mr S was told that the product was an investment, which it wasnt, and a further 
aggravating factor is the supplier brokered the loan when it wasnt authorised to do 
so by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - in breach of Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FMSA);
The unaffordable interest rate charged by BPF meant that Mr S had to redeem 
the loan and obtain more affordable finance, but despite that BPF remined 
culpable.
commission paid by BPF was never disclosed giving rise to an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA;
misrepresentations, that were false (and known to be false) were made with the 
intention of inducing Mr S to enter these agreements and it would have known that 
it was unable to ser ice all those who had bought into the timeshare. He relied on 
what was said and experienced loss as a result, he could not have known that the 
misrepresentations were fraudulent - and what remedy was available - until he 
instructed his representatives;
the primary limitation period hasnt expired but, even if it had, Mr S relies on 
section 32 of the LA (specifically section 32(l)(b)) to extend the limitation period.
I used the following provisional decision:
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr S, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But,
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a
fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF
says it doesnt, because Mr S is complaining about events that took place in 2008 and it was
more than six years before he brought his complaint to us.The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook.
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr S is
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to fulfil
its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 and 140A
arising out of his purchase of the product.
Jurisdiction and Mr Ss section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity.
I agree with our investigator that the event that Mr S is complaining here about is BPFs
rejection of the claim that he made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is when BPF
declined his complaint in December 2018. Mr S brought this complaint to our service not
long after that and Im satisfied hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of Mr Ss
complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it.
Jurisdiction and section 140A.
Mr S also considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier here resulted in an unfair
relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A of the
CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within our
jurisdiction.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of (for the
purposes of section 140A) took place at the point of sale in September 2008. I cant
reasonably conclude that this part of Mr Ss complaint was brought to us within the six-year
period set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So, Ive gone on to consider
the second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr S knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that
he had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).
It could be argued that Mr S first became aware that he had cause for complaint in 2018
when he sought professional advice. From the evidence Ive got, taking into account the acts
and omissions that Mr S has complained about, I think he should reasonably have known
that something might have gone wrong as a result of the suppliers acts and/or omissions
before that. But I accept this is not the same as Mr S knowing that he had cause for
complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mr S may have known that something might have gone
wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to assume that he would have realised
that this might have made the relationship between him and BPF unfair  or that he had
grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr S would have needed to know there was a problem that
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that
Mr S knew (or ought to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF before
2018. Im satisfied he brought his complaint to us within three years of that and I find this
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction.Merits of the complaint
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Ss complaint. Mr S
brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA and Im
considering whether BPF has provided a fair and reasonable response to those claims in
this decision.
Our investigator says any right that Mr S had to bring these claims against BPF is probably
out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I think its something that BPF could
reasonably take into account when it decided to decline Mr Ss claims. I should make it clear
however, that I am not deciding here if any right that Mr S may have to bring these claims
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the supplier. In this complaint, Mr S claims that misrepresentations were made and I think
sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant.
Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of action accrued here
will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged under section 75
became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered.
Im satisfied any relevant damage was incurred when Mr S purchased the product and took
out the finance - in September 2008. Amongst other things, this was when he paid for the
benefits which he says were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mr S would have
needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date he entered into the
transaction to purchase the product. Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since
that date before Mr S contacted BPF - in March 2018. I believe the period within which he
had to bring an action under section 75 had run out by that point and I cant reasonably find
it was wrong of BPF to decline Mr Ss section 75 claim.
I note that BPF says the relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier (d-c-s)
required under section 75 isnt present here. As Im not minded to uphold this complaint for
other reasons, I havent considered whether the necessary d-c-s relationship is present.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising out of
the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable is six years from the date the debtor-creditor
relationship ended. He paid off his loan in 2009 so that means he would have needed to
bring any claim under section 140A no later than September 2017.
Im satisfied that this claim wasnt raised with BPF until fat that point and I consider his ability
to bring a claim under section 140A had likely expired by that stage. As such Im not
persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline this claim.
Section 32 LAI appreciate Mr S may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some thought
to his representatives reference to section 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of
time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found (or could with
reasonable diligence have been discovered).
I cant see that specific allegations of this sort were put to BPF previously. But, even if I were
to accept that section 32 applied, I think Mr S probably had enough information to start the
clock running in the particular circumstances not long after he purchased the product.
I say this because it looks as if Mr S used the product fairly soon after purchase. He says
that the promises made to him were false and that means he must have been aware of this
within a relatively short period of taking on the timeshare. On balance, I think it reasonable to
conclude that Mr S was probably aware then that benefits he says he was told at the outset
would be provided might have been misrepresented early on. I think its more likely than not
he would also have realised he wasnt receiving the services he expected at that stage. I
consider this would have been sufficient to enable Mr S to bring his claims and Im not
persuaded its unreasonable to expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits.
Ive also considered (in this context) the submissions from Mr Ss representatives about the
payment of commission. They say any commission paid by BPF to the supplier for arranging
the loan should have been disclosed and this gives rise to an unfair relationship under
section 140.
BPF has not provided details of how much  if any  commission was paid. But, my
understanding of the levels of commission that were normally paid in this sort of situation (at
the relevant time) is that this wasnt high enough to mean that BPF should have realised not
telling Mr S risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair (under section 140A). If, and
its by no means certain, any commission was paid, I think its unlikely to have exceeded
10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. Im not
persuaded that BPF was obliged to disclose it. And I dont think the supplier was under a
duty to disclose it either. I cant see that the supplier was acting as agent for Mr S. I dont
think it owed him a fiduciary duty and Im satisfied it wasnt obliged to provide an impartial or
dis-interested recommendation, in these particular circumstances.
It follows Im not persuaded that section 32 assists Mr S here. However, even if Mr S was
able to rely on section 32, Im satisfied if any commission was paid it probably wasnt more
than 10%. And I think its unlikely a court would conclude that this created an unfair debtor
creditor relationship, in any event.
Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened when Mr S
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant
documentation) I think there was an obligation to give Mr S sufficient appropriate and timely
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan.
But, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose - or advice was provided - that could give rise to
a claim to which this section could apply.
Section 19 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Mr Ss representatives say the supplier here didnt have appropriate authorisation to arrange
this finance - in breach of the above. I cant see that this issue was ever raised with BPF so
Im conscious that BPF hasnt had a chance to consider and respond. But I have no reason
to believe that the supplier did hold the appropriate registration at the relevant time and Icant reasonably uphold Mr Ss complaint on those grounds.
Unaffordable lending
Mr S says proper credit checks were not carried out and it was irresponsible of BPF to
provide this loan. Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to reasonably
conclude that the lending was unaffordable for Mr S. And I cant see that Mr S has provided
much by way of further evidence about this after the investigator sent her view. But, even if I
were to accept that BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, I would need
to be satisfied that the lending was actually unaffordable for Mr S (and he lost out as a
result) in order to uphold this part of his complaint.
In considering this, I can only take into account the standards that applied at the relevant
time. I havent got much information about Mr Ss circumstances other than his salary at the
time. From the evidence I have seen, Im not persuaded there are enough fair and
reasonable grounds to conclude that the loan was unaffordable for Mr S. And Im unable to
uphold this aspect of his complaint.
Conclusion
As the investigator explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr S
may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see
from the information available, any relevant claim has most likely exceeded the time limits
set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account and (for the reasons set
out) Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold Mr Ss
complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr S unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant
properly require BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
I invite both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments and information (that I havent seen before) by the date below. After that Ill
consider all the evidence available and make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business accepted my provisional decision and Mr Ss solicitors said it would seek 
further instructions from him but nothing further has been heard since 22 February and the 
9th March deadline has long passed. As such I consider it only fair and reasonable that I 
bring this matter to a conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this service is able to consider Mr Ss complaint and having done so 
I do not uphold that complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman