DRN-1886671
 
The complaint
Mr F says Valour Finance Limited  trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) - irresponsibly lent to 
him.                           
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Savvy provided to Mr F between March and 
May 2019.  Both loans were for £750 and repayable over 15 months. The monthly 
repayments were for £100. Mr Fs second loan is currently outstanding. 
In the most recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought the 
loans shouldnt have been given because Mr F was having problems managing his money.  
Savvy disagreed and said Mr F had enough disposable income to pay for the loans. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Savvy ought to have realised that Mr F wouldnt have been able to make the 
repayments for his loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Savvy did 
income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr F before it lent to him. And I can see that Savvy 
has provided to us its findings from those checks, including a copy of the telephone call 
recording between it and Mr F. But given the length of time Mr F was committing to 
borrowing for, I think Savvy should have been looking to build a clearer picture than it did 
about Mr Fs finances before lending either loan to him. 
Had Savvy carried out proportionate checks before lending these loans, its likely to have 
found  on both occasions  Mr F was borrowing from other short-term lenders. As well as 
this additional borrowing, further checks would have shown that at the time of both loans, Mr 
F was spending a significant portion of his income on on-line gambling websites and was 
clearly having problems because of that. 
Such financial behaviour should have caused Savvy to question whether Mr F making loan 
repayments was sustainable and whether it should have continued to lend to him.
So Im upholding Mr Fs complaint and Savvy should put things right. 
Putting things right 
If Savvy has sold the outstanding debt Savvy should buy this back if Savvy is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Savvy cant buy the debt back, then Savvy should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Savvy should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, 
fees and charges on the loan without an outstanding balance, not including anything Savvy 
has already refunded.
B) Savvy should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Savvy should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr F having made overpayments then 
Savvy should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Savvy should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr F. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Savvy should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F. Savvy shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Savvy has already written-off.
E) Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to 
the loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Valour Finance Limited must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Valour Finance Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman