DRN-3212188
The complaint
Miss K complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited mis-sold her a life and serious 
illness policy. 
What happened
In February 2019 Miss K took out a VitalityLife Essentials Plan. She took an option to have a 
Wellness Optimiser added on which gave a discount and meant her annual premium 
increase would depend on her health status. The plan initially had a monthly premium of 
£49.95 which provided life cover for £160,000 over a 23-year term. It also provided for 
protected life cover for £160,000, which meant the life cover would remain in place 
subsequent to a serious illness claim, and serious illness cover for £40,000 up to age 70.
The plan came with other benefits, one of which was a health tracking watch. Miss K says 
she was told to initially pay £180 and if she met her fitness targets the remainder of the value 
would be paid by Vitality.
 
Miss K called Vitality in November 2019 to enquire about dental cover and was told that she 
didnt have health insurance, but she had a life and serious illness policy. Miss K said this 
isnt what shed wanted. During the call, Miss K said Vitality confirmed she had been sold the 
wrong policy and suggested she reduce her cover. By making this change, she would still be 
entitled to receive the benefit of cashback which would be paid on the policy anniversary. 
Miss K said she didnt receive the cashback in February 2020 as expected because Vitality 
no longer made these pay-outs. She says Vitality continued to charge her £10 a month to 
pay for her watch. In October 2020, Miss K cancelled her policy and complained. 
In its response, Vitality broadly focused on addressing the issues which stemmed from the 
information it gave Miss K in November 2019. In summary, it upheld this part of her 
complaint and recognised it had given incorrect information regarding the cashback benefit 
and watch. 
Whilst it accepted it had made errors, Vitality went on to say, following the call in 
November 2019 it had informed Miss K of the cashback reward in its anniversary letter which 
was sent in December 2019. It also said it was no longer contributing to Miss Ks watch due 
to her reducing her cover, but this was in line with its terms and conditions. Overall, it said it 
had made two service failures and for this it offered Miss K £100 compensation for the 
confusion and inconvenience caused.  
Miss K referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things and 
upheld Miss Ks complaint but giving additional reasons for doing so. In short, in addition to 
the issues created by the November call, he felt the policy had been mis-sold because 
Miss K had made it clear that she was not responsible for repaying a mortgage, so there was 
no need for this policy to protect mortgage repayments. He also said that whilst the policys 
level of cover was reduced in November 2019 it remained unsuitable. He said Miss K 
wanted to cancel her policy but was persuaded by Vitality to reduce cover in order to receive 
cashback.  
He recommended Vitality refund Miss K the premiums she had paid plus interest. He said it 
looks like the watch has now been paid off through the premiums paid so there was nothing 
further Vitality needed to do about this other than pay the £100 compensation.
Vitality disagreed with our investigator, it maintained that it didnt mis-sell the policy as it 
covered Miss K in the event she became ill and was unable to work. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive thought about both the recommendation, which was made, and the 
information Vitality provided. 
-Suitability of advice
Vitality recommended this policy to Miss K, so it had an obligation to consider Miss Ks 
circumstances and her wants and needs in order to provide advice which was suitable. 
Miss K says the purpose of her wanting cover was to cover herself in the event of an 
accident or illness, so she could have a wage and put someone else in to run her business if 
needed. Ive thought about this and I dont doubt that Miss K wanted some sort of cover in 
place. 
Thinking about her objectives, on balance it sounds like Miss K wanted something like an 
income protection policy. I say this because shes told us that she was not responsible for 
making repayments on the mortgage held by her partner. She said he also had life insurance 
in place so there was no need for the policy to provide cover. 
The point of sale document I have states under the heading My Recommendation: 
You partner has a repayment mortgage with a remaining term or 23 years and a balance of 
£160,000. My first recommendation would be for you to protect the mortgage loan in the 
event of death, diagnosis of a terminal illness or a serious illness. 
I have added emphasis in bold above. I understand this is a typo, but I think it should read 
your partner has a repayment mortgage. I cant be sure what was discussed between 
Miss K and Vitalitys advisor at the point of sale, but I think its unlikely Miss K wouldve 
wanted to cover a mortgage she was not responsible for. 
It is also likely that Miss K wouldve made it broadly clear that her partner had a repayment 
mortgage, not her. Overall, I have no reason to doubt what Miss K has told us about the 
mortgage repayments and so it follows I dont think she needed the mortgage protected. 
Vitality has told us a health insurance plan would never have been recommended to Miss K 
because this type of plan, amongst other things, offers physiotherapy, in-patient treatment 
and diagnostic tests. It does not offer monetary amounts to cover wages and so would not 
be in line with Miss Ks requirements. 
Ive thought about this and on balance, I agree, a health insurance policy would not align 
with Miss Ks objectives but that doesnt necessarily mean the policy sold was the right one 
for Miss K.  
Miss K says she thought she had health insurance and I think there is some confusion here. 
I understand why Vitality has said that health insurance wouldnt have been suitable, but I 
cant hold Miss K responsible for not understanding the terminology or alternative products 
on offer. Health insurance may not have been suitable, but Im not convinced that the cover Vitality 
sold Miss K was what she wanted or needed. Ive also listened to a call Miss K had with 
Vitality and she sounds plausible in the statements she makes about the policy not being 
what she thought it was. 
Vitality has highlighted that Miss K wouldve had a 30-day cooling off period from inception 
and upon reviewing her policy documents which were sent to her, she couldve cancelled. 
Miss K has said she doesnt recall receiving any paperwork other than notifications and 
updates. 
Ive thought about this and Im satisfied Vitality sent the point of sale documents. But by this 
point the policy had been sold and I dont think its fair or reasonable to discount the 
conversations Miss K wouldve already had with Vitality. There wouldnt have been a reason 
why Miss K would have doubted the advice she received from Vitality or questioned the 
recommendation made to her. The provision of documentation doesnt render unsuitable 
advice suitable.
And although her partners mortgage was on a repayment basis Miss Ks life cover was 
recommended on an indexed basis rather than a more suitable decreasing basis. Vitality has 
said this is because a lower level of serious illness cover was recommended. But Im not 
persuaded that justifies indexed life cover being sold. 
Even if I concluded that Miss K needed the cover in place for a mortgage, it would seem 
reasonable that it was on a decreasing basis to reflect the term and repayments of the 
mortgage. Overall, I think, given the specific circumstances of Miss K at the time, that the 
plan being inclusive of life on an indexed basis and serious illness cover was unsuitable and 
I dont think it met her needs. 
-Conversation in November 2019 
Turning to the information Miss K was given on the call in November 2019, Vitality has 
accepted it made an error, so what I need to determine is whether it has done enough to put 
things right. Ive listened to the call between Miss K and Vitalitys advisor and Im persuaded 
by Miss Ks testimony and plausibility about what she was told.
The information Vitality gave Miss K during this call led to Miss K reducing her cover when 
she called with the intention of cancelling the policy. I am satisfied that Vitalitys offer of £100 
compensation for the confusion and inconvenience it caused is fair and reasonable for this 
part of the complaint. Miss K initially paid £180 towards her health watch and she continued 
to make payments towards this so she should be entitled to keep the watch. 
Its more likely than not that there wouldve been other products available which were more 
suitable, and it was apparent to Vitalitys advisor during the call that another product may 
have been more suitable. If it wasnt something Vitality offered, it had a responsibility to take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for any customer who is entitled to rely 
upon its judgment. 
Vitality had a responsibility to recommend a policy which met Miss Ks needs. Having 
considered everything, while the serious illness element of the cover may have gone some 
way towards meeting her needs, I think the policy as recommended was sufficiently far 
removed from what she wanted or needed. And, that fair compensation is a refund of all 
premiums paid.  
I uphold this complaint and Vitality should take further steps to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Vitality Corporate Services Limited should refund Miss K all 
premiums paid from inception of the policy in February 2019 to when she cancelled it, with 
8% simple interest per annum added from the date each premium was paid to the date 
redress is paid.And, £100 to make up for the distress and inconvenience she experienced because of the 
incorrect information given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman