DRN-3253392
The complaint
Mr E has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly turned 
down his business interruption insurance claim.
What happened
Mr E held a business protection policy with AIG. He claimed on his policy after his business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AIG turned down Mr Es claim. They said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property and 
while the policy covered a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases 
covered. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case to support his 
view that his claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for his claim. 
Mr E asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has referred to claiming for a number of periods of business interruption. In this 
decision I am only commenting on AIGs decision to turn down Mr Es claim for business 
interruption which commenced in March 2020. AIGs decision to decline claims for any other 
period of business interruption would need to be dealt with separately.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Es business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Es claim. I have considered the policy in its entirety but will focus on the 
parts that appear most relevant. 
Denial of access
This extension in Mr Es policy provides cover for loss resulting from:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of, or access to, the Premises
The policy defines damage as:
Loss of, Destruction of or Damage to
For this to provide cover Mr Es loss would need to be as a result of loss, destruction or 
damage to property in the vicinity of his business premises which prevented or 
hindered the use of, or access to, his premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity of Mr Es business which prevented 
or hindered access to, or the use of, his premises. So this doesnt provide cover for his 
claim. 
Bomb hoax 
This extension provides cover for loss resulting from:
Any action by the Police or local, civil or military authority following a danger or 
disturbance in the vicinity of the Premises whereby access is prevented, including 
any actions arising out of Bomb Hoax or Bomb scare
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. Mr E has referred to 
the Supreme Court judgment, but I think the High Court judgment in the FCAs test case is 
more relevant to his complaint as the court considered a similar extension to the one in       
Mr Es policy and that part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 436 to 437 of the judgement say: 
the government action in imposing the Regulations in response to the national 
pandemic cannot be said to be following a danger in the vicinity, in the sense of 
in the neighbourhood, of the insured premises. 
Even if there were a total closure of insured premises pursuant to the 
Regulations, there could only be cover if the insured could demonstrate that it 
was the risk of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the neighbourhood, of 
the insured premises, as opposed to in the country as a whole, which led to the 
action of the government in imposing the Regulations. It is highly unlikely that that 
could be demonstrated in any particular case.
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to
provide cover in the event of a danger within the vicinity of Mr Es premises. And I dont think 
the Governments response to the national pandemic was due to a danger within the vicinity 
of Mr Es premises as opposed to the country as a whole. Therefore, this extension doesnt 
cover Mr Es claim.
Notifiable diseases
In 2019 the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy were amended by a policy changes 
endorsement document. This document amended the notifiable disease extension within the 
policy to cover an outbreak of a notifiable disease at Mr Es business premises or within a 25 mile radius. The endorsement says that notifiable disease is now defined in the policy as 
being an illness sustained by a person resulting from a list of specified diseases. Covid-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Es policy is not like this  
it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases 
and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr Es claim.
Mr E has referred to the Supreme Court judgment but whether a claim is payable still 
depends on the wording of the individual policy. In this case, the judgment doesnt 
impact Mr Es claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman