DRN-4174233
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays Bank) is holding him liable for 
transactions he says he did not consent to.  Mr C also complains about his name changing 
on his Barclays Bank account.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In July 2022, Mr Cs name on his account with Barclays Bank was changed.  Thereafter, 
several payments were made from the account using Mr Cs debit card.  Mr C argues that he 
neither consented to the account name change nor the transactions.  Mr C brought this 
matter to Barclays Banks attention.  Unhappy with its response, Mr C raised a complaint 
which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr C did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
In my judgment, I find, on balance, that Mr C either changed the name on his Barclays Bank 
account himself; or provided authority to a third-party to do so on his behalf.  I also find, on 
balance, that Mr C either made the disputed transactions concerned himself; or provided 
authority to a third-party to do so on his behalf.  I will set out my reasoning below.
On 27 July 2022, Mr Cs name on his Barclays Bank account was changed.  This occurred 
in-branch.  Barclays Bank says a deed poll was provided  which was certified by a solicitor 
 to process the name change.  I have seen evidence supporting this.  Barclays Bank also 
says that Mr Cs debit card and PIN code would have been required to process the name 
change, which I have no reason to doubt.
Mr Cs position, broadly, is that he did not change his name on his Barclays Bank account.  
He also does not appear to suggest he provided authority to a third-party to do this on his 
behalf.  Mr C also asserts he lost his debit card.
I have difficulty accepting Mr Cs position.  I say this because I have not seen any 
satisfactory evidence explaining how a third-party knew Mr Cs PIN code to be able to 
process the name change in-branch.  Mr C says, amongst other things, I didnt know the pin 
myself so it wasnt wrote down I never used it at a shop or anything like.
Without any satisfactory evidence explaining how Mr Cs PIN code was compromised: I am 
persuaded, on balance, that Mr C completed the name change process himself; or provided 
authority to a third-party to do so on his behalf.
Based on the evidence before me, I am satisfied that the disputed transactions in question 
were authenticated.  So, I must now consider whether Mr C consented to them.  That is, 
whether he made the transactions himself or provided authority to a third-party to make them 
on his behalf.  If I am satisfied that either of these two scenarios apply, then it would be 
deemed that Mr C authorised the payments under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, 
and therefore he would be liable for them.  If, however, I am satisfied that a third-party made 
these payments without Mr Cs consent  then he would not be liable for them, as they 
would be considered unauthorised payments.
Based on the evidence before me, it appears as if all the disputed transactions were card 
payments.  From what I can see, some of the payments required Mr Cs PIN code to be 
processed.  However, as I have set out above, I have not seen any satisfactory evidence to 
explain how Mr Cs PIN code could have been compromised. 
Notwithstanding the above, there are additional points in this matter which, to my mind, casts 
doubt on the proposition that the account name change and disputed transactions  were 
done without Mr Cs consent.
Mr C has not said when he lost his debit card.  Although I think it is safe to assume that he is 
suggesting this occurred around the time of the account name change, as the debit card was 
required to complete this process.  
The difficulty I have with this is  why would an opportunistic fraudster take this course of 
action?  That is to say, if the fraudster had Mr Cs debit card, knew the associated PIN code 
 why would they take further risk by going into branch and changing Mr Cs name on his 
account?  In my experience dealing with fraud complaints, this behaviour is not indicative of 
what I would expect from an opportunistic fraudster  particularly given there is nothing to 
suggest the alleged fraudster benefited from this name change.
I can see that a new debit card associated with Mr Cs account was requested, and then 
dispatched to Mr Cs address on 28 July 2022 (the day after the account name change).  
Again, like my above points, I find it difficult to understand  if Mr Cs submissions are to be 
believed  why an opportunistic fraudster would do this?  Particularly given the fact that the 
new card was never used; only Mr Cs original debit card to make the disputed transactions 
concerned.  Moreover, as the investigator in this matter highlighted in her findings, taking 
such action increased the chances of the fraud being discovered  again, something not 
indicative of an opportunistic fraudster.
I note Mr C has made reference to obtaining CCTV footage.  However, given my reasoning 
above, I do not need to take this point further.
Taking all the above points together - I find, on balance, that Mr C either changed the name 
on his Barclays Bank account himself; or provided authority to a third-party to do so on his 
behalf.  I also find, on balance, that Mr C either made the disputed transactions concerned 
himself; or provided authority to a third-party to do so on his behalf.  Therefore, I will not be 
asking Barclays Bank to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman