DRN-3604103
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about Aviva Insurance Limited turning down their claim 
under their home insurance policy for accidental damage to carpets. They bought the policy 
through their bank, who Ill refer to as F.
What happened
Mrs G accidentally dripped hair dye on the carpet in a bedroom and the carpet in the hall at 
their home. Mr G made a claim under their home insurance policy, which Aviva turned down 
because Mr and Mrs G didnt have extended accidental damage cover for the contents of 
their home under their policy. Mr G complained to Aviva through F. Aviva told them through 
F they were entitled to decline their claim, as their policy didnt provide cover for damage 
caused accidentally to carpets. 
Mr and Mrs G asked us to consider their complaint against Aviva. Mr G has said the policy 
was mis-sold to him because it was never explained to him that he needed extended 
accidental damage cover for all his contents to be covered for damaged caused accidentally. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. She didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that Aviva were entitled to decline their claim, as they didnt have 
cover for accidental damage to carpets under their policy. And she said that she didnt think 
the policy had been mis-sold, because when Mr and Mrs G bought it online it was made 
clear to them that if they wanted accidental damage cover for all their contents they needed 
to select the option to have extended accidental damage. And they didnt select this option. 
She also pointed out it was clear in the documentation sent to them when they took the 
policy out and at subsequent renewals that this cover wasnt included .
Mr G has said that he doesnt agree with the investigators assessment and that hed like an 
ombudsmans decision. Hes said the investigators view doesnt mention the merit of his 
claim or why he had the right to expect accidental damage to cover his wifes accident. He 
has also said he thinks the policy was worthless to them and offered them no protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided it shouldnt be upheld for the same reasons as our investigator. 
I think our investigator explained very clearly in her email setting out her view on Mr and   
Mrs Gs complaint how shed considered the merits of their claim and why she thought Aviva 
was entitled to turn it down. Ive also considered this and I am satisfied Aviva was entitled to 
turn it down. This is because under the terms of their policy Mr and Mrs G didnt have 
extended accidental damage cover and, without this, their policy didnt cover accidental 
damage to carpets. 
Mr and Mrs G bought their policy online through F, but Aviva have said they were 
responsible for the sales process. And Aviva needed to provide Mr and Mrs G with sufficient 
information in a clear, fair and not misleading way to enable them to make an informed 
decision on whether the policy was right for them.
Like our investigator, Ive checked the sales process and Im satisfied it was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs G that in order to have accidental damage cover for all their contents, including 
carpets, they needed to take the optional extra of extended accidental damage cover and 
pay extra for this. They didnt, and the documentation provided made it clear they didnt have 
this cover. This means I think Aviva did provide them with sufficient information in a clear, 
fair and not misleading way and that the policy wasnt mis-sold. Im also satisfied Aviva didnt 
do anything to make them think they would be covered for the damage caused to their 
carpets.
I dont agree with Mr G that the policy provided them with no protection and was worthless to 
them. It is a fairly standard home insurance policy and provided cover for many insured 
events resulting in loss or damage to the buildings at their home and their possessions. And 
the fact it didnt provide cover for the damage to their carpets doesnt mean it was worthless. 
It therefore follows that Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to turn down Mr and Mrs Gs claim 
and that they didnt mis-sell their policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited should not be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman