DRN-3946860
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality. She wants it to reimburse her for 
the repairs shes had to pay for.
What happened
Miss H obtained a second-hand car in February 2022 financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. The car was around seven years old and cost £7,700.
Miss H has provided us with a job card from the supplying garage which seems to pre-date 
when it was supplied to her. This lists the following:
J emblem
Arm rest centre console  broken
Stereo button
Check disc and pads (brake)
Check battery health
Shortly after shed obtained the car, Miss H complained to MotoNovo that the arm rest hadnt 
been repaired and that there was an issue with the brakes. The supplying garage replaced 
the brake pads and discs and MotoNovo said the garage would repair the armrest. Miss H 
says the armrest hasnt been fixed.
In May 2022 Miss H says the car wouldnt start. On checking the battery, she noticed the 
positive terminal was broken and had been held together with a cable tie. She contacted 
MotoNovo and she also told it that the clutch seemed to be slipping.
MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection. This confirmed the positive terminal on the 
battery was held on with a cable tie and was still loose; the clutch pedal was excessively 
heavy and tight; and that there was an excessive bearing type noise from the gearbox. The 
independent engineer didnt think these issues were present or developing when the car was 
supplied.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint, based on the conclusion of the independent 
report.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the 
fault with the clutch occurred when Miss H had driven the car less than 2,000 miles and that 
the independent report  which was completed later  said that, if this fault was present at 
the point of supply, it would likely manifest itself within the first 1,500 to 2,000 miles. She 
thought MotoNovo should reimburse Miss H for the cost of the repairs, £1,680.00, plus 
interest, and pay her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld. But I thought there was 
additional action MotoNovo needed to take to put things right. I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was 
supplied and how long after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around six years old when it was supplied in February 2022 and its 
mileage was around 83,000 miles. I would expect a car of this age and mileage to 
have more wear and tear issues than a newer vehicle.
Miss H has reported various faults and Ive considered each of these in turn to decide 
whether a fault exists; whether that fault means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when the car was supplied; and what, if anything, MotoNovo needs to do to put 
things right:
Brakes
On 7 March 2022, just over two weeks after she obtained the car, Miss H asked a 
third-party garage to check the brakes. It said that the brake pads were worn metal 
to metal and that the car needed new brake discs and pads. The supplying garage 
had agreed to check the brakes and pads before the car was supplied to Miss H. But 
it cant have done this if, only a couple of weeks later, the pads were worn so 
severely. I dont find the car was of satisfactory quality because of the brakes. But, 
after Miss H complained to MotoNovo, the supplying garage fitted new discs and 
pads at no cost to Miss H. Ive not seen evidence, such as a job card, to show this 
work was completed, but Miss H is satisfied this was done. Im satisfied this fairly 
resolves the problem.
Battery
In or around the beginning of May 2022, and within three months of obtaining the car, 
Miss H couldnt start it. She looked under the bonnet and found that the positive 
terminal on the battery was held on with a cable tie. This was confirmed by the 
independent inspector. The inspection report concludes that all faults werent present 
when the car was supplied and are wear and tear issues. This suggests that the 
terminal wasnt faulty when the car was supplied. Which suggests something went 
wrong after Miss H obtained the car and she attempted to fix this herself  or asked 
someone else to. I find this unlikely. I say this because I dont think a battery terminal 
would have deteriorated in such a short space of time. And Miss H had already 
reported problems with the car  I think its unlikely she noticed a problem with the 
battery terminal and tried to fix it herself without reporting it to either the supplying 
garage or MotoNovo. Ive also watched the video of the ACE inspection and it seems 
quite clear that she was shocked by what shed found.For these reasons I think its more likely than not that the battery terminal was 
deteriorated and cable-tied when the car was supplied to Miss H. And this caused the 
car not to start. It follows that I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied because of the battery terminal.
Ive taken into account that, before the car was supplied, the supplying garage had 
agreed to check battery health. And MotoNovo provided a photo from the supplying 
garage showing that the battery was fully charged. But this doesnt make a difference 
to my conclusion. Whilst the supplying garage checked the batterys charge, it failed 
to identify  or didnt bring to Miss Hs attention  that there was a problem with one 
of the terminals.
Whilst the cost of fixing the battery terminal was minimal, I think MotoNovo needs to 
reimburse Miss H for the cost. She spent £6.09 on a new terminal. She didnt have to 
pay the labour to put this right as the garage who fixed the clutch completed it has 
part of that job.
Clutch
Miss H first reported a problem with the clutch in May 2022, within three months of 
obtaining the car. She said the clutch was slipping and there was a bearing noise 
from the gearbox. The independent inspection said that there was no clutch slip 
evident, but that, the clutch pedal itself was excessively heavy and tight in 
operation. It also found that, there was an excessive bearing type noise from the 
gearbox. The inspector concluded that: We do suspect wear and deterioration of 
the clutch and gearbox bearings. In other words, he didnt conclude this was 
something that would have been present or developing when the car was supplied.
Ive considered this carefully. The car was second-hand and would likely require 
some wear and tear repairs. And the clutch and gearbox have a limited lifespan. But 
Miss H reported a problem with the clutch within three months of driving the car and I 
dont think a reasonable person would have expected it to fail within this timescale. In 
thinking about this, Ive also considered my earlier findings about the brakes and the 
battery. The supplying garage supplied a car which had severely worn brake pads, 
after it had said it had checked them, and a poorly and unprofessionally fixed battery 
terminal.
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that the fault with the clutch was 
present or developing when the car was supplied and that MotoNovo should 
reimburse Miss H for the cost of the repairs.
MotoNovo says Miss H may have made the problem with the clutch worse by 
continuing to drive the car after shed reported a possible fault. But Ive not seen 
evidence to show she was advised not to drive the car. And the independent report 
doesnt make any reference to the continued driving of the car causing the fault to get 
worse.
Oil Dipstick
The independent report notes that the inspector couldnt confirm the oil level because 
the dipstick was broken. I can see this was also noted on the supplying garages 
inspection which was carried out before it supplied the car to Miss H, although Ive 
not seen evidence to persuade me that the supplying garage made Miss H aware the 
dipstick was broken. Its clear from the video of the inspection that she was surprised 
to find out the dipstick was broken. Without a dipstick, I consider it wont be possible to check the oil level, which is generally recommended as a routine check to ensure 
the continuing health of the vehicle. For this reason I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for MotoNovo to reimburse Miss H for the cost of a new oil dipstick, on 
receipt of evidence from her.
Broken arm rest
I dont think a broken arm rest in a six-year-old car is a significant enough fault to 
make the car of unsatisfactory quality. And Miss H was aware it was broken before 
the car was supplied to her. But section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act is relevant 
here. Section 56 covers what the Consumer Credit Act refers to as antecedent 
negotiations. This means it covers what was said or done before the credit 
agreement was entered into by the consumer by, in this case, the supplier.
Section 56 explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is 
said by a supplier before the consumer takes out the credit agreement. And anything 
the supplier says will be deemed to have been said on behalf of the finance provider.
Im satisfied that the supplying garage agreed to fix the arm rest before the car was 
supplied to Miss H. I say this because I can see the arm rest is listed on the job card. 
MotoNovo has already agreed this should be fixed  when it responded to Miss Hs 
original complaint, it said that the supplying garage would contact you to have the 
vehicle booked in and have the armrest repaired. Miss H says this hasnt been done. 
So I think its fair and reasonable that MotoNovo arranges for the supplying garage to 
do that now, at no cost to Miss H.
J emblem and stereo button
The supplying garages job card also included these items. Miss H says the J 
emblem fell off within days of the car being supplied to her, and the stereo button is 
missing. For the same reasons as I outlined above, I think section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act is relevant here. I think its more likely than not that the 
supplying garage agreed to fix these items before the car was supplied to Miss H 
because they were included on its job card. For that reason, I think its fair and 
reasonable that MotoNovo arranges for the supplying garage to do that now, at no 
cost to Miss H.
Other costs and distress and inconvenience
Miss H says she had to arrange car rental for three days whilst her car was being 
fixed. Shes provided an invoice but unfortunately I cant ask MotoNovo to reimburse 
her. Thats because the invoice isnt in her name.
Being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused Miss H 
some distress and inconvenience for which she should be compensated. I consider 
£100 to be fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H thought everything had been covered and had nothing further to act.
MotoNovo said:
It agreed to reimburse Miss H for the new battery terminal, a new oil dipstick, and to 
arrange for the supplying garage to fix the armrest and supply and fit a new J emblem.It hadnt seen evidence that the stereo button was missing at the point of supply.
It hadnt seen evidence of the mileage when the clutch failed. When Miss H first told it 
the clutch was slipping, she said the mileage was around 86,000 and by the time of the 
inspection shed travelled 3,222 miles.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst MotoNovo agreed with most of my provisional decision, it said it hadnt seen evidence 
that the stereo button was missing when the car was supplied and it asked for evidence of 
the mileage when the clutch failed.
The stereo button was included on the supplying garages job card which also included the 
armrest and the J emblem. As MotoNovo has accepted responsibility for these two items, its 
not clear to me why it continues to dispute the stereo button. I find it should arrange for this 
to be replaced for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
I havent seen evidence to show what the mileage was when the clutch failed. But this 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion. I set out in my provisional decision the reasons 
why I thought MotoNovo should reimburse Mss H for the cost of repairing the clutch. 
MotoNovo hasnt provided any new evidence or information which would cause me to depart 
from my earlier conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
1. Reimburse Miss H for the cost of a new battery terminal - £6.09. And, as Miss H has 
been without this money, it should pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date 
Miss H paid for the repairs to the date of settlement. *
2. Reimburse Miss H for the cost of repairing the clutch - £1,680.00. And, as Miss H has 
been without this money, it should pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date 
Miss H paid for the repairs to the date of settlement. *
3. On receipt of evidence from Miss H, reimburse her for the cost of a new oil dipstick.
4. Arrange for the supplying garage to fix the armrest, supply and fit a J emblem and 
supply and fit the missing stereo button.
5. Pay Miss H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. MotoNovo Finance Limited must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman