DRN-4199672
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) when it incorrectly applied a late payment marker to his credit file.
What happened
Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. He says it incorrectly reported a 
late payment on his credit file. Mr T told us that was shopping around for a loan around this 
time, and the late payment marker may have affected the loan rates he was offered. He says 
MBFS should pay off the remainder of his loan.
MBFS upheld Mr Ts complaint. It apologised for incorrectly applying a late payment marker 
to his credit file in April 2022 and for not removing it when it said it would do so. It confirmed 
it had now removed the incorrect marker and had offered Mr T £400 in recognition of the 
distress it caused, and the poor service Mr T had been given.
Mr T didnt think this was fair and reasonable. He said although MBFS had given him £400, 
he thought it should reimburse him the remainder of his loan amount, so he brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought £400 compensation was fair 
in the circumstances.
Mr T disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ts worry and disappointment  he identified an error on his credit file 
caused by MBFS, and it wasnt corrected as quickly as it shouldve been. And I empathise 
with him when he talks about the impact this error may have had on a loan that he took out 
at this time.
But I also have to take into consideration that MBFS has apologised for its failings; its 
corrected Mr Ts credit file; and its paid £400 in recognition of the poor service it provided. 
And Ive seen no evidence that Mr T was offered a higher rate on his loan, or that he was 
declined finance because of this mistake.
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that £400 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr T will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman