DRN-3852220
The complaint
Mrs X complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited relied on a fraudulent invoice 
when settling her car insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs X complained after receiving a copy of the repair invoice from Skyfire. Mrs X disputes 
the total figure on the invoice and says this invoice is fraudulent. Mrs X points to an invoice 
she obtained from a repairer, which details a lower figure, so she disagrees with the invoice 
Skyfire provided.
Mrs X also wants the excess she paid refunded in full because of this. Skyfire refunded half 
of the excess Mrs X paid, given it was able to recover half the claim costs from a third party. 
But as Mrs X thinks the overall costs were lower, she believes shes due a full refund.
After Mrs X asked this service to get involved, our investigator concluded that the insurer 
hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs X remains adamant that the invoice Skyfire provided is 
fraudulent. Because Mrs X didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that Skyfire has acted fairly. I say this because:
Ive seen a copy of the invoice Mrs X claims is fraudulent. Skyfire says the third-party 
business that issued the invoice is the repairers management company. The invoice 
itself sets out the itemised cost of the repair, it refers to Mrs Xs car registration and 
references the correct claim number. I see no reason to conclude that this invoice is 
fraudulent. 
Mrs X refers to an invoice she obtained from a repairer, which shows a lower repair 
cost. Skyfire pointed out that this formed part of the repairs and was included as part 
of the overall claim costs. I can see from Skyfires invoice that it does indeed include 
the contents of the invoice Mrs X provided. So Im not persuaded that this confirms 
that Skyfires invoice is fraudulent. 
Moreover, Skyfire has received the invoice from a third-party management company. 
And theres nothing in this invoice that suggests the costs are suspicious. So I find it 
reasonable that Skyfire accepted this invoice and covered the costs set out within it.
Mrs X wants the full excess she paid refunded. Skyfire already refunded half the 
excess Mrs X paid, as it was able to recover only half the costs from a third party 
involved in the incident that led to the claim. Ive seen a copy of Skyfires records that 
confirms it only recovered half of the costs. It also seems to me that the insurer has 
charged Mrs X an excess in line with her policy and in line with the insurers terms 
and conditions. In my view, as the refund is proportionate to the level of liability that 
Skyfire had borne for this claim, its reasonable that the insurer only refunded half the 
excess Mrs X paid. 
For these reasons, I think Skyfire has relied on a legitimate invoice and has acted on this 
invoice fairly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman