DRN-3374631
The complaint
Mr A and Ms W are unhappy that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) declined their claim for storm damage under their commercial property 
insurance.
The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr A throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr A took out cover with NFU in 2007 when he bought his property. In early 2019, he 
claimed under his policy for roof damage caused by a storm. NFU settled the claim directly 
with the contractor Mr A employed to carry out the repairs.
In June 2019, Mr A noticed water ingress from a different part of his roof. He made a further 
claim to NFU, explaining that the damage was likely caused by the earlier storm, only 
becoming apparent later.
NFU appointed a loss adjuster, who concluded that the damage was due to wear and tear. 
NFU declined Mr As claim.
Mr A instructed a roofer to inspect the damage. The roofer concluded that it was storm 
damage. NFU considered the roofers report but maintained its decision to decline Mr As 
claim. 
Mr A complained because he thought his policy should cover the repairs under the same 
claim as NFU accepted earlier in the year.
Our investigator didnt think NFU had treated Mr A unfairly by declining his second claim. 
She considered NFUs expert report more persuasive than Mr As roofers report. Our 
investigator didnt recommend any further action for NFU.
Mr A didnt agree. He said:
NFUs representatives hadnt actually inspected the property, relying only on his 
contractors images.
Two experts acting on his behalf concluded that the damage was caused by a storm.
He regularly maintained his roof, so the damage wasn't due to wear and tear.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr A had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, Ill explain my role. Its not for me to decide what caused the roof damage. My role is 
to look at why NFU declined Mr As claim and, based on the evidence, decide whether it was 
fair to do so in the circumstances, for the reasons it gave, and in line with the policy.
The fact that there is damage is not in dispute  mortar is missing in places along the ridge 
line and there are a few slipped slates in a different part of the roof.
When considering a complaint about a claim for storm damage, I ask myself three questions:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Was the damage wholly or mainly caused by a storm?
Was there a storm?
Unfortunately, the answer to this question isnt clear. While NFU accepted Mr As original 
claim for storm damage, his second claim wasn't linked directly to a single storm event. Mr 
As assumption is that the damage was caused at the same time as the first storm claim but 
only became apparent some months later. As the policyholder, its Mr As responsibility to 
show that an insured event has happened. Here, its not clear because of the delay in 
identifying the damage. So, I cant reasonably conclude that there was or wasn't a storm 
around the time of the damage. As NFU assessed his claim anyway, Ill move onto the next 
question.
Was the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Typical damage would be dislodged roof tiles, usually on the roof edges and, as Mr As 
roofer said, in concentrated areas exposed to high winds. Given that theres no dispute 
about the damage, which is consistent with this description, if there was a storm then Im 
satisfied that this condition is met.
Was the damage wholly or mainly caused by a storm?
A well-maintained property should withstand all but the most extreme weather conditions. Mr 
A says he regularly maintained his property. NFUs expert report comments on the visible 
patch repairs but points out that the roof slates havent been secured with two fixings. The 
report concludes that the slates, here, slipped because of the failure of the clips.
Having looked at the photos Mr As roofer provided, its evident that the majority of the 
damage is around the patch repairs, and the slipped slates are those from such a repair. 
This suggests that, on balance, the damage is more likely to be due to a failed roof repair.
NFUs loss adjuster reported that the mortar around the ridge tiles is crumbling and has 
become dislodged in places. The qualified surveyor NFU appointed agreed with the 
conclusion that the damage was due to a gradual, natural deterioration. Again, looking at the 
photos taken by Mr As roofer, Im satisfied this is a fair observation based on the remaining 
mortar which is evidently crumbling in places.
I realise that Mr As contractor and roofer stated the damage was caused by a storm, 
otherwise thered be more scattered evidence of issues. But I should be clear that just 
because damage happens during a storm, that doesnt mean the storm was the main cause. 
Here, the evidence suggests that the roof had deteriorated naturally over time, so its more 
likely than not that the storm simply highlighted those areas naturally weakened through 
wear and tear. In the absence of a single identifiable storm event which couldve caused the 
damage, and having seen more persuasive contradictory conclusions provided by NFUs 
loss adjuster and qualified surveyor, Im satisfied that NFU reached a fair conclusion that the 
damage was more likely to be due to wear and tear than a one-off storm event.
NFU declined Mr As claim relying on the following policy exclusion:What is insured
6) Storm. 
What is not insured
Damage:
caused[by] gradually operating cause;
Excluded risks:
wear and tear or loss of value
any cause which happens gradually;
Given the evidence available, Im satisfied that NFU declined Mr As claim fairly for the 
reasons it gave and in line with this policy exclusion. Therefore, I see no reason to ask NFU 
to settle Mr As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman