DRN-2445499
The complaint
Miss D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc are holding her liable for disputed 
transactions she didnt make. And theyve loaded a national fraud marker against her name. 
What happened
On the 12 August 2019 an overdraft of £2,750 was applied for on Miss Ds account. Then on 
the 14 August 2019 Miss D received two payments into her account totalling £4,000. A loan 
application was also made using Miss D details, but this wasnt successful. Later the same 
day £4,000 was transferred out to two new payees via online banking. 
On the 15 August 2019 NatWest were advised by the sending bank that Miss D had 
received fraudulent funds, totalling £4,000, on the 14 August 2019. And they decided to load 
a Cifas marker for Misuse of Facility against Miss D and close her account. 
On the 16 August 2019 Miss D visited her local branch to explain she was having difficulties 
accessing her online banking and shed lost her debit card. Miss D explained that she wasnt 
aware that the funds were deposited into her account or any of the account activity from the 
12 August 2019. In total Miss D disputed almost £7,500 in fraudulent transactions. And she 
hadnt seen her debit card for a week prior to the fraudulent transactions. 
 
Miss D complained to NatWest about the disputed transactions and the poor service shed 
received. But the bank didnt uphold her complaint. In summary they thought Miss D had 
most likely authorised the disputed transactions and theyd acted fairly.
  
Miss D wasnt happy with NatWests response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In summary 
they thought Miss D most likely authorised the disputed transactions because:
-A fraudster needed access to a significant amount of Miss Ds security and personal 
details to carry out the fraud. 
-Theres no explanation for how a fraudster obtained these details. 
Miss D didnt accept our investigators opinion. And in summary said:
-Shes been a victim of fraud. 
-She doesnt know how the fraudsters got hold of her online banking details. 
-She informed NatWest as soon as she realised her card was missing. 
Miss D didnt accept our investigators opinion, so its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Ive firstly considered the disputed transactions. Generally, NatWest can hold Miss D liable 
for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not she made 
or authorised them herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ds online banking details were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss D consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Miss D 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the online banking transactions a fraudster would need access to 
Miss Ds card, PIN, card reader, mobile banking passcode and online banking 
details. Miss Ds explained that shes not recorded any of her online or mobile 
banking details  therefore its difficult to understand how a fraudster could have 
successfully obtained these without her knowledge.
Most of the disputed transactions were sent to new payees. To create a new payee 
via online banking a fraudster would need access to Miss Ds online banking details 
plus her card, PIN and card reader. On reporting the disputed transactions to 
NatWest Miss D explained she lost her card and last used it on the 6 August 2019. I 
find it strange that Miss D didnt notice her card missing sooner, based on the 
regularity of her use up to the 6 August 2019. 
On the 9 August 2019 a get cash transaction was carried out from Miss Ds account. 
Miss D says that she didnt carry out the transaction  however on contacting 
NatWest and our service she didnt initially query it, only after the transaction was 
mentioned in our investigators view  I find this surprising. Get cash transactions 
require a fraudster to have access to a customers mobile banking for a code to be 
generated, and its option for customers to use when they dont have their debit card. 
To carry out all of the transactions a fraudster would have needed access to Miss Ds 
online banking for at least 5 days between the 9 and 14 August 2019. I think its more 
likely Miss D was aware she didnt have access to her card at this point  and 
therefore carried out the get cash service. And I do question why at this point she 
didnt let NatWest know about her missing card. 
Miss Ds explained that her PIN was recorded on her mobile phone  however Ive 
not seen a plausible explanation for how a fraudster obtained her PIN via this means. 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Miss D authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that NatWest is entitled to hold him liable for them.
13/08  TPP create
14/08
Cifas markerThe marker that NatWest have filed with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss D is guilty of 
a fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. Cifas says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Miss Ds account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in order to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a Cifas marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. 
Ive considered the requirements to register a Cifas marker  and Im satisfied that NatWest 
have met the required standard. I say this because Ive seen evidence that Miss Ds account 
received £4,000 of fraudulent funds on the 14 August 2019  and for the reasons Ive 
outlined above Im satisfied that Miss D most likely authorised transferring out these funds to 
new payees on the same day. For this reason Im satisfied that Miss D was most likely 
deliberately complicit when receiving the funds. And I think NatWest have met the standard 
of proof to register a Cifas marker. Therefore I wont be asking them to take any further 
action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman