DRN-3953113
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pi Financial Limited trading as Diversify Financial Services (Pi 
Financial) wrongly advised him to transfer the value of his existing Personal Pension Plan 
(PPP) to a new Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and use an advisory investment 
management service provided by Mayfair Capital Limited (Mayfair Capital).
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both the Representative and Pi Financial. I dont intend to 
repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr B had an existing PPP provided by Prudential. He couldnt access benefits flexibly 
through flexi-access drawdown due to the terms of the PPP. By November 2017, the PPP 
was valued at about £43,693 and invested in Prudentials with-profits fund, the underlying 
asset allocation of which as at 31 December 2016 was:
31.3% International Equities
26.4% Fixed Interest
16.1% UK Equities
15.2% Property
6.6% Alternative Assets
4.4% Cash
Mr B was introduced to Pi Financial by an unregulated firm called UK Life. Following this 
introduction, Pi Financial obtained information about Mr B and his PPP.
On 20 November 2017, Pi Financial issued its suitability report to Mr B recommending that 
he transfer the value of his PPP to a new SIPP provided by Intelligent Money. Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives were recorded as follows at that time:
He was 53 years old, in good health, single with no financial dependents;
He was a self-employed builder with yearly income of about £40,000;
His assets comprised his residential home valued at £250,000, £45,000 cash held on 
deposit and a PPP provided by Prudential (the subject of this complaint) into which 
he was making net contributions of £56 per month but planned to increase this to 
£200 per month;
His debts comprised an interest-only mortgage of about £83,000 on his residential 
home which was due to be repaid in 2025;
He wanted to retire at age 60 and receive gross annual income of about £25,000 
from that age but realised he may need to defer retirement until age 65;
He was planning on building some holiday lets over the next three years, some of 
which would be under his ownership with the intention that these would generate 
income to help meet his retirement income need. It was also noted that he would 
contemplate downsizing his residential home in the future to release equity to help 
fund his retirement;
He had been disappointed with the investment performance of his PPP in the 
preceding years and wanted to invest it in more exciting assets to improve returns; 
He had limited previous investment experience and a Balanced risk profile.
Pi Financial recommended that Mr B transfer the value of his PPP to the SIPP for the 
following reasons:
Your pension assets can be invested within an environment akin to your attitude 
towards risk, providing a wider range of investment choice and a greater potential for 
return
Your fund value cannot be accessed flexibly as you wish with your current provider 
and therefore you would like to switch to a new plan which allows all of the access 
options now available under the pensions freedoms legislation
You would like the funds to be spread across a range of investment choices, to 
reduce risk and improve opportunity for growth
You want loved ones to benefit from the pension which you have built up, should you 
pass away, as part of an inter-generational estate planning your family can benefit 
from with this type of pension
A SIPP will allow you to exercise substantial control as a member over the choice of 
investments held under your pensions. You want the opportunity to invest your 
monies in something that is more exciting than present 
While invested your fund will benefit from tax advantaged growth
Benefits can be taken at any time from the age of 55
Pi Financial recommended that Mr B use an advisory investment management service 
provided by Mayfair Capital (although in some parts in the suitability report it incorrectly 
referred to it as a discretionary investment management service) and invest in the Balanced 
risk portfolio. The following snapshot of a typical Balanced portfolio was provided in the 
suitability report:
The costs associated with Pi Financials recommendation were stated as follows:
Mayfair Capitals charges
1.5% commission charge on any dealing
Pi Financials charges
£150 Fund Management Charge
4% initial advice charge based on the transfer value paid into the SIPP
1% ongoing advice charge based on the fund value of the SIPP
Mr B accepted the recommendation. He entered into a separate contract with Mayfair 
Capital to open a trading account through which investments would be placed. The transfer 
from the PPP to the SIPP was completed in January 2018 for a transfer value of £48,042. 
Over the period until December 2019, Mayfair Capital placed a significant number of trades 
which generated commission payments. In early December 2019, Mr B contacted Mayfair 
Capital to tell it that he had decided to withdraw the entire value of his SIPP as a lump sum. 
He received a total payment of £33,041, which comprised £8,260 as a tax-free lump sum 
and £24,466 as a taxable lump sum. Mr B was unable to close his SIPP because some 
shares were then illiquid and couldnt be traded.
This complaint
The Representative, on behalf of Mr B, complained to Pi Financial that it wrongly
advised him to transfer the value of his existing PPP to a SIPP and use the advisory 
investment management service provided by Mayfair Capital. It said that the advice was 
negligent and had caused Mr B to suffer a financial loss of about £18,921.
Pi Financial didnt uphold this complaint. It said its role was limited only to recommending a 
suitable SIPP product and investment manager. In its view, the recommended SIPP product 
was suitable because the provider, Intelligent Money, was financially strong, provided an 
excellent service, had a competitive charging structure and offered a wide range of 
investment opportunities. And it was also satisfied Mayfair Capital was a suitable investment 
manager after it had carried out due diligence on its proposition in January 2017. It didnt 
accept responsibility regarding the investment performance of Mr Bs SIPP because, in its 
view, and in line with the reliance on others rule (COBS 2.4.4R) in the regulators 
Handbook, Mayfair Capital was solely responsible for investment decisions and, therefore, 
any financial losses flowing from these if later deemed unsuitable.
The Representative didnt accept the response provided by Pi Financial and referred the 
matter to this Service. Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld on the 
basis that there wasnt any credible reason for Mr B to transfer at that time. In summary, the 
investigator stated that the transfer exposed the value of Mr Bs pension savings to a higher 
level of risk than he realised or was able to tolerate and led to higher charges without good 
reason. He acknowledged that Mr B was likely attracted to the ability to access benefits 
flexibly but given that he didnt envisage doing so for at least several years, he didnt need to 
transfer at that time. Our investigator explained to Pi Financial that its regulatory duty 
extended beyond simply recommending the SIPP and that it was also responsible for 
ensuring the intended investment strategy  to be managed by Mayfair Capital  was also 
suitable for Mr B. 
The investigator concluded that Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer to the SIPP or
invest through Mayfair Capital, and had he been properly informed of the lower cost and 
range of investment options offered by Prudential he wouldnt have decided to switch. He 
accepted that Mr B was looking to improve on the performance of his existing PPP, so he 
proposed compensation on the basis that he wouldve invested broadly in line with: 50% in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% based on the average 
rate from fixed rate bonds. In addition, he said that Pi Financial should pay Mr B £500 
compensation for the stress, trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable recommendation.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr B, didnt express any view on whether it accepted our 
investigators opinion and recommended remedy. Pi Financial submitted various 
contemporaneous documents and repeated its previous assertion that Mayfair Capital was 
responsible for the investment advice and, therefore, for remedying any financial losses 
suffered by Mr B.
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me, an 
ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by the Representative, on behalf of Mr B, and Pi Financial. Where the 
evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding 
circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single 
point raised by the Representative on behalf of Mr B or Pi Financial. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. Ive considered all the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons why 
below.
The regulators suitability rules and guidance 
Pi Financial was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the 
time it advised Mr B. So when it advised him on his retirement planning it was required to 
adhere to the suitability rules and guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) section in the FCAs Handbook. 
Primarily, Pi Financial was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr B. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when Pi Financial provided its recommendation to 
Mr B were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the FCAs rules and guidance is to ensure that 
regulated businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice thats suitable for their clients 
needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their 
investment objective and risk profile. In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with 
the requirements in COBS 9, Pi Financial needed to gather necessary information for it to be 
confident its advice met Mr Bs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, Pi 
Financial had to undertake a fact find process in order to achieve this.
In addition to the requirements set out in COBS 9, the then regulator, the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA), issued a report in December 2008 titled Quality of advice on pension 
switching which I think was relevant when Pi Financial advised Mr B. The report 
summarised the findings of the regulators thematic review on the quality of advice given to 
individual since pensions A-day on 6 April 2006 to switch the value of their pensions into a PPP or SIPP. The regulator stated: 
We assessed advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the customer switching 
into one of the following: 
 A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that this option was 
needed).
 A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have met the customers needs. 
 A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension schemes, but 
where the extra cost was not explained or justified to the customer.
 A new pension and the customer had lost benefits from their ceding pension (for 
example, guaranteed annuity rates) without these being explained or justified. 
 A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and personal 
circumstances. 
 A pension where there was the need for ongoing advice, but this had not been 
explained, or offered, or put in place.
Was Pi Financials advice suitable?
Pi Financial recorded that Mr B wanted to retire at age 60 and receive gross annual income 
of about £25,000 from that age but realised he may need to defer retirement until age 65. It 
used Prudentials retirement income modeller software to show the sustainability of Mr Bs 
income need from age 65. Based on this, Pi Financial noted that Mr Bs pension savings 
were likely to be insufficient to meet his income need during his retirement. I think this was 
an understatement given the income modeller showed that Mr B would run out of money 
within two years by age 67. 
It appears Pi Financial wasnt alarmed by this because it was noted Mr B was planning on 
building some holiday lets over the next three years, some of which would be under his 
ownership with the intention that these would generate income to help meet his retirement 
income need and he would also contemplate downsizing his residential home in the future to 
release equity to help fund his retirement. In my view, the use of holiday lets and downsizing 
the residential home were, at that stage, merely speculative options. The only thing certain 
at that point was the value of Mr Bs existing PPP then valued at about £43,693. I think what 
was important at that stage, bearing in mind Mr B was then aged 53, was to seek  as much 
as possible  to preserve and maximise the returns (at the lowest cost) from his existing 
pension fund.
I think its fair to say that Mr B was dissatisfied with the investment performance of his 
existing PPP. In my opinion, Mr Bs need to grow what was clearly an insufficient pension 
fund as much as he could was best served by keeping costs low. In its guidance in July 2012 
for advisers to exercise caution when recommending centralised investment propositions, 
the FSA said that the adviser needed a reasonable belief that the investor could understand 
the nature of the risks of the underlying investments an investment manager would be making for him.
Ive reviewed how Mayfair Capital invested Mr Bs SIPP during the relevant period. Some of 
the investments could be regarded as high risk and speculative and I note that some later 
became illiquid. Mr B doesnt strike me as the type of investor who would be willing to 
engage with, understand or appreciate the benefit of regular engagement with an investment 
manager of the sort Mayfair Capital would offer  up until that point his investment 
experience was limited to holding cash on deposit and investing money in a with-profits fund 
through his existing PPP.
The information sheet produced by Prudential confirmed that the annual investment charge 
for his PPP was expected to be 1% a year and that Mr B could switch to alternative funds 
without charge. So the charges under Mr Bs existing PPP were within the stakeholder price 
cap. I dont think there was any need for inter-generational estate planning when Mr Bs 
existing PPP would offer a return of fund on his death on the same basis as the SIPP since 
both plans were governed by the same HMRC rules relating to death benefit payments. Or 
that he needed to transfer at that time to a product that offered flexible benefits when he 
didnt require access for at least several years.
The value of Mr Bs PPP represented his main source of retirement income at that time. In 
my view, Mr B didnt require ongoing advice (or the associated cost this entailed) and 
shouldve stayed with Prudential considering his needs, circumstances, risk profile and 
option to switch funds within his PPP without charge if he was dissatisfied with the 
performance of the with-profits fund. I havent seen evidence Pi Financial adequately 
considered and discounted this alternative, lower cost option before recommending that he 
switch into the SIPP and invest through Mayfair Capital.
Pi Financials due diligence into Mayfair Capital
Pi Financial had a duty to ensure any recommended investment manager was appropriate 
and carry out due diligence on the firm it was recommending, as initially set out in the FSA 
guidance on centralised investment propositions published in July 2012. 
Mayfair Capital was authorised and regulated by the FCA on 3 April 2017. It seems that its 
intention was to operate as a discretionary investment management service in the future (the 
suitability report confusingly described Mayfair Capital as providing a discretionary and 
advisory service) but lacked the necessary managing investments permission at that time. 
So it provided an advisory service instead. I consider the Personal Finance Societys good 
practice guide for due diligence into DFMs (dated February 2015) is still relevant here.
These papers said that the due diligence should, for example, include research into an
investment firms reputation and financial standing, as well as the types of underlying assets
it would invest in and its approach to investing. The PFS paper said advisers needed to get
under the bonnet of a managers marketing blurb and were required to question and
challenge information provided to them.
Mayfair Capital had only recently been established in 2016 and authorised about six months 
before Pi Financial recommended it to Mr B, so particular care shouldve been taken. But 
from what I can see, Pi Financial was relying on due diligence  limited as it was  carried 
out when Mayfair Capital wasnt even directly authorised at all. Pi Financials compliance 
director emailed Mayfair Capital in January 2017, at which time Mayfair Capital was an 
appointed representative of another firm (which unlike Mayfair Capital did hold the 
managing investments permission). He said, If you have a standard due diligence 
document setting out details about your firm, how you operate etc, could I trouble you to 
forward this to me. I have of course obtained information from the public domain i.e. FCA register and Companies House.
Mayfair Capital only responded with hyperlinks to the FCA register, its website and the 
directors CV. It enclosed, the SIPP Brochure which includes details of all our Advisory 
Model Portfolios from Cautious to Speculative. It also includes a brief breakdown of the type 
of investments one could expect to see in the balanced portfolio. This appears to have been 
the origin of the chart Pi Financial showed Mr B in its suitability report. However I see little 
rigorous interrogation of what approach Mayfair Capital intended to take, other than Pi 
Financial asking it to specifically confirm in a subsequent email that Mayfair Capital wouldnt 
invest in non-mainstream or unregulated collective investments. And that only Mayfair 
Capital advisers holding the CF30 client-facing permission would advise clients.
So, I havent seen persuasive evidence that Pi Financial got under the bonnet and really 
understood what kind of investments Mayfair Capital would consider for Mr B  nearly a year 
after the above email exchange  before it recommended in November 2017 that Mr B invest 
with Mayfair Capital. And Ive noted that Pi Financial was collecting 1% pa trail fees from     
Mr B to provide ongoing advice itself, whereas Mayfair Capital claimed to be providing that 
service for no ongoing fee other than 1.5% dealing commission on each trade. Not only 
could that have led to confusion as to which firm was reviewing the ongoing suitability of              
Mr Bs portfolio, it shouldve also led to concerns as to whether Mayfair Capital could afford 
to provide the service being claimed or advise Mr B appropriately. The dealing commission 
structure meant that Mayfair Capital would need to keep buying and selling investments in 
Mr Bs SIPP to derive any income.
Pi Financials view that Mayfair Capital should be held responsible for Mr Bs losses
Pi Financial doesnt accept responsibility for the investment performance of Mr Bs SIPP 
since the transfer because, in its view, and in line with the reliance on others rule (COBS 
2.4.4R) in the regulators Handbook, Mayfair Capital was solely responsible for investment 
decisions and, therefore, any financial losses flowing from these.
The reliance on others rule says that in being instructed to provide investment services,
Mayfair Capital was entitled to rely on any information provided to it by Pi Financial; or any 
recommendations Pi Financial had given to the mutual client, Mr B. But it also says that Pi 
Financial would remain responsible for the accuracy of the aforementioned information and 
suitability of the aforementioned recommendation. In other words, Pi Financial remained 
responsible for its decision to recommend Mayfair Capital to Mr B (and for the ongoing 
review service it was charging to provide him). This rule doesnt prevent me from deciding 
that Mr B wouldnt have suffered losses (including losses from investments recommended by 
Mayfair Capital), but for Pi Financials advice to use Mayfair Capital.
The agent as client rule, in circumstances where it applies, would actually have limited
Mayfair Capitals regulatory responsibilities to Mr B. Pi Financial does correctly say that 
Mayfair Capital confirmed in writing  albeit at a point significantly earlier and when it was 
regulated differently  that it was accepting responsibility for the suitability of its own 
recommendations (which is obviously correct). But its important to note this doesnt mean to 
the exclusion of Pi Financials wider duty of care to Mr B, as a result of recommending 
Mayfair Capital to him in the first place.
I acknowledge that Mayfair Capital may have recommended investments to Mr B that were 
too high risk and have lost value and so could also and separately be considered to have 
caused some of the same losses. However, in deciding this complaint against Pi Financial, 
Im satisfied that without its unsuitable recommendation to use Mayfair Capital, those losses 
couldve been avoided.Overall, Ive decided that Pi Financials recommendation was unsuitable. I say this because, 
in my view, the switch led to Mr B incurring extra costs without good reason, exposed the 
value of his pension savings to an inappropriate level of risk that didnt match his attitude to 
risk and personal circumstances, and didnt produce credible evidence the SIPP would likely 
produce better investment returns, all of which were unsuitable outcomes described by the 
regulator in its thematic review on pension switching in December 2008.
It's my view that Mr Bs needs couldve been met by his existing PPP. It offered a sufficient 
range of investment funds and had lower charges than the solution recommended by Pi 
Financial. So in the circumstances of this case, I consider it fair and reasonable that Pi 
Financial compensates Mr B for all his losses. If Pi Financial feels that Mayfair Capital is also 
at fault here, its free to pursue Mayfair Capital directly after it has compensated Mr B in full.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B wouldve invested differently, likely within the PPP provided by 
Prudential. It's not possible to say precisely what he wouldve done differently. But I'm 
satisfied that what I've set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested. What Ive set out below is in line with the remedy 
recommended by our investigator.
To compensate Mr B fairly, Pi Financial must:
Compare the performance of his investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Pi Financial should pay into Mr B's SIPP, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Pi Financial's payment should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Pi Financial shouldn't pay the 
compensation into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Pi Financial is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's SIPP, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is to  
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isn't a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr 
B won't be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Ive decided that Mr B is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr B wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum (which he did 
when he withdrew money from the SIPP in 2019), the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, Pi Financial must pay Mr B £500 compensation for the stress, trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial consider that it's required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much it's taken off. Pi Financial should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From
("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
Intelligent
Money
SIPPStill exists
but illiquidFor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of
Transfer-in to 
Intelligent 
Money SIPPDate of this
final
decision8% per annum
simple from date
of this final 
decision if
Pi Financial 
doesnt settle
within 28 days of
receipt of Mr Bs
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the end date. 
If, at the end date, any investment in the SIPP is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi Financial should take 
ownership of the illiquid portfolio or investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the SIPP provider. This amount Pi Financial pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Pi Financial is unable to purchase an illiquid investment, its value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of arriving at the actual value of the portfolio. Pi Financial may wish to 
require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay Pi Financial any amount he may receive 
from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that 
would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP. Pi Financial will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the SIPP wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any contributions made into the SIPP should be included in this benchmark return from the
point they were added. Any withdrawals made from the SIPP should be deducted from the
benchmark return from the point they were paid. If there are a large number of deductions 
and it prefers to do this, Ill accept if Pi Financial deducts them all at the end of the 
calculation.
Why is this remedy suitable?Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr B 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B couldve obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay him compensation as set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman