DRN-3228723
The complaint
Miss S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) have reported missed payments to her credit file and shouldnt 
have.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of Miss Ss credit agreement held her responsible for paying any fines and the 
business has explained that on occasion they will pay those fines on behalf of the consumer 
and seek to recover the cost.. 
In July 2021 the business provided their final response to Miss S. They explained that they 
couldnt split debts arising from fines from any debts overdue on the account. But they 
accepted that parking fines arent late payments and they said they would remove them 
when the full balance was paid.
Miss S says they are still being reported to her credit file. Shes provided a screen shot that 
suggests there may still be missed payments showing on her credit file for November and 
December 2021. The screen shot isnt dated and its not clear if its recent. 
Ive reviewed VWFSs system notes and can see an entry on 8 November 2021 in which 
they say they have amended all credit files. So, I think the evidence is mixed as to whether 
missed payments are still being reported but, regardless, I think VWFS should check that no 
missed payments are being reported to any credit reference agencies.
I cant see that Miss S has been financially disadvantaged by any missed payments being 
reported. She has not provided any evidence of that so I dont think it would be reasonable 
to ask VWFS to compensate her.
And, as the fines were always Miss Ss to pay under her agreement I dont think VWFS 
should waive them or any part of them.
Miss S says she had a payment plan arranged with VWFS to pay the debt. The 
correspondence shes sent shows that conversations were taking place about a payment 
plan in June 2021, but I cant see that one was agreed. Id suggest Miss S contacts VWFS to 
discuss that and Id expect them to be positive and supportive if Miss S is having difficulty 
making payment.
Putting things right
VWFS should remove any adverse reports theyve made to the credit reference agencies in 
respect to Miss S not making payment towards her parking/travel fines. If their systems dont 
allow them not to report markers they should ensure they manually remove the markers as 
soon as theyre made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to remove any adverse reports theyve made to the credit reference 
agencies in respect to Miss S not making payment towards her parking/travel fines. If their 
systems dont allow them not to report missed payments against these debts they should 
ensure they manually remove the reports as soon as theyre made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman