DRN-3875626
The complaint
Ms N and Mr P have complained about the refusal by Masthaven Bank Limited to decline 
their request for a term extension to their short-term loan. They believe Masthaven hasnt 
treated them fairly.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms N and Mr P being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 9 September 2021 Ms N and Mr P took out a short-term loan of about £1.2 million with 
Masthaven over a 12-month term to enable them to purchase a new property (which I will 
call GR). In addition to a first legal charge over GR, Masthaven was granted a second 
charge over another property (RR) which was vacant and being marketed for sale. The loan 
was due to expire and be repaid in full on 8 September 2022. The repayment strategy was to 
be the sale of RR and (if necessary) a flat in London (for which Masthaven held no security). 
In February 2022 Ms N and Mr P sold RR for £965,000 and confirmed they were refinancing 
their mortgage on GR to repay the balance of the loan to Masthaven. However, in July 2022 
Masthaven was told that there were issues with the title to RR. Ms N and Mr P wanted a 
term extension while this was being resolved. By this time, Masthaven had decided to 
withdraw from the UK market and so was no longer offering lending of any kind to 
customers. Masthaven wasnt able to offer a term extension.
A complaint was raised in August 2022. Ms N and Mr P said that Masthavens letters were 
misleading, giving them to believe they could ask for a term extension. Ms N and Mr P also 
said theyd not been treated fairly in line with FCA guidance for vulnerable customers, or in 
relation to the defective title. Finally, Ms N and Mr P said that Masthaven had failed to 
provide them with the terms and conditions of its indemnity insurance.
In its final response, Masthaven explained that it didnt think it had acted unfairly or that its 
correspondence was misleading. The bank said that it had never suggested that a term 
extension would be allowed; rather, Masthaven said it had invited Ms N and Mr P to contact 
the bank if they needed more time to pay in order to discuss any options.
In relation to the defective title, Masthaven couldnt see how this was its responsibility and 
suggested Ms N and Mr P contact the solicitors who acted for them when theyd bought RR 
in 2002. Masthaven had noted Ms N and Mr Ps mental health issues when it was told about 
them in August 2022, and said it would bear this in mind for future communication. But this 
didnt mean Masthaven was required to grant a term extension. Masthaven confirmed that its 
indemnity insurance was solely for the banks benefit and so a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions wouldnt be provided.
Masthaven agreed a two-month period of forbearance past the expiry date of the loan (which 
was 9 September 2022, so until 9 November 2022). However, the bank said that if in that 
two-month period there was evidence of a sale of RR or a refinance of the loan, there might 
be a further short period of forbearance. Masthaven confirmed there would be no 
arrangement fee for this, but interest would be charged at the current agreed rate as well as 
a £125 monthly default management charge.
Unhappy with Masthavens response, Ms N and Mr P referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In her letter of 15 December 2022 the investigator explained 
that she was satisfied that the loan was due to be repaid in September 2022 and that the 
forbearance offered by Masthaven was reasonable.
In January 2023 Masthaven appointed Receivers in relation to RR. I am told that the 
property has now been sold and the loan to Masthaven has been repaid.
Ms N and Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Theyve made very detailed points about why they consider 
Masthaven to have acted unreasonably, as well as new issues relating to the appointment of 
Receivers and the amount claimed at completion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I also note new issues have been raised by Ms N and Mr P in relation to the appointment of 
Receivers, the conduct of the Receivers, the fees charged by the Receivers and the amount 
claimed by Masthaven to close the loan. These are all new matters that I cant consider 
here. Receivers dont fall within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service, and so any 
concerns Ms N and Mr P have about them will need to be referred directly to the Receivers. 
Any new complaint relating to Masthaven will need to be referred to the bank, which will 
have eight weeks to respond. If the bank doesnt issue its final response within eight weeks 
of Ms N and Mr P raising a new complaint, or if they are unhappy with the final response, 
Ms N and Mr P can bring a new complaint to us. But I wont be considering any new issues 
as part of this final decision.
Ive looked at everything thats happened. I have a lot of sympathy for Ms N and Mr P; 
moving house is a stressful experience even when things go smoothly  and here things 
went far from smoothly. I am sure it was a shock to Ms N and Mr P to find that there were issues with the title to RR that caused problems with the sale. But whilst thats not something 
Ms N and Mr P had any control over, its also not Masthavens fault. 
Im satisfied that the bank acted reasonably in relation to its conduct of the loan and in its 
negotiations with Ms N and Mr P about how the loan would be repaid. Various proposals 
were made by Ms N and Mr P, offering alternative security for part of the loan and different 
timetables about when the loan would be repaid, which Masthaven gave fair consideration 
to. Having considered these alternative proposals, Im satisfied Masthaven was entitled to 
reject them. I dont think the bank acted unreasonably in this respect.
I find the tone of the correspondence from Masthaven to be firm but respectful, and that the 
banks explanations of its position were clear and unambiguous, including confirmation of the 
options open to Masthaven if the loan wasnt repaid. Whilst I understand Ms N and Mr P 
found this upsetting, Im satisfied the bank did nothing wrong in explaining the consequences 
of default. I think this was a last resort when, from the banks perspective, it appeared the 
goalposts were moving with each proposal from Ms N and Mr P on when and how the loan 
would be repaid.
I think Masthaven granted reasonable forbearance, given the circumstances. Im also 
satisfied that, once Masthaven was aware of Ms N and Mr Ps mental health issues, its 
communications thereafter were appropriate and took account of their vulnerabilities.
I understand that Ms N and Mr Ps perception was that they were being harassed and 
threatened with legal action by Masthaven. But my review of the correspondence doesnt 
lead me to the same conclusion. 
I am sorry this isnt the outcome Ms N and Mr P were hoping for. I can see from their 
submissions the intensity with which Ms N and Mr P have brought their complaint. They see 
error or wrong-doing in almost everything Masthaven has done (or not done). Thats a 
natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation 
as Ms N and Mr P have been here.
But I have a different remit; I have to be objective, and impartial, and look at the case based 
on the evidence, rather than be swayed by emotion. So whilst I do have considerable 
sympathy for the difficulties Ms N and Mr P had, particularly in relation to the problems with 
selling RR, on reviewing the evidence, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman