DRN-2607107
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the transfer of her ISA by Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited 
referred to as Nutmeg. In short, she says that Nutmeg failed to transfer her funds  under 
her 2018/2019 ISA allowance wrapper  such that they are currently held outside of her 
wrapper. 
She would like Nutmeg to retrospectively place her funds under the old wrapper and make 
up for any financial losses.    
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs S opened a Lifetime ISA called My Nutmeg LISA where she invested 
£4,000. A few months later in September 2017, she opened an ISA and a general pot which 
she named My Nutmeg ISA into which she invested £16,000, or at least she thought. 
She thought something was wrong when noticed an annual tax return for 2018/2019 which 
said she had assets managed by Nutmeg which are held outside of an ISA or Pension 
wrapper". 
Nutmeg initially (incorrectly) told her that shed oversubscribed. It later confirmed that her 
£16,000 June 2018 contribution didnt go into her ISA because she didnt have an ISA open 
for that year, even though she used the online portal and selected My Nutmeg ISA. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said she doesnt think that Nutmeg have acted incorrectly in allocating her 
money to the General Investment Account (GIA). 
She said Mrs S set up two ISAs and turned off her auto-renew setting because she wanted 
to be free to pay in her allowance where she wanted  but this meant that Nutmeg wouldnt 
have automatically opened a new ISA for that tax year. 
Although Mrs S changed the name of the pot, this didnt determine or change the ISA status 
of the funds within it. For the funds to be allocated to an ISA, her ISA settings had to be 
turned on, to allow this to happen. This means that if an ISA wasnt open, any contributions 
made to an ISA & general pot would be allocated to a GIA, and this is what happened to 
Mrs S. Her £16,000 contribution was (correctly) paid into her GIA in accordance with the 
settings on her account, rather than the 2018/2019 ISA wrapper.   
There was an option to start a stocks and shares ISA but the link was only open to any 
accountholder, who didnt have an ISA open.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, she made the following points:
The naming of the pot predates this issue and has nothing to do with it. 
She only saw one so-called pot visible to her  and thats the problem. 
Shes still trying to figure out how much of the pot is under an ISA wrapper and how 
much isnt  even Nutmeg got their facts wrong. 
The ramifications of the option to switch off the auto-renew option werent explained 
to her. 
Shes held cash and stocks and shares ISAs with other providers but has never 
experienced anything like this. 
She was presented with a single account through the portal, she had no idea that 
there were two parts  one part being the ISA. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
Mrs S made the following observations:
Her contributions werent put into her ISA, as she thought they had, as a result of 
which she suffered financial loss. 
Nutmeg didnt provide any transparency about what was happening, and it was too 
late  when she got the tax statement  to do anything about it. 
The account she opened was always portrayed through the portal as a single 
account with a single balance. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs S says, Im not persuaded 
that Nutmeg have behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why, its important for me to recognise her strength of feeling about this 
matter. She has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs S and Nutmeg and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I note that Mrs S opened two ISA accounts. I note that she also turned off Nutmegs auto-
renew setting, which had been (by default) set to on setting. Im aware she had her 
reasons for doing so, and I make no criticism of her. Im conscious this change meant that 
she was no longer locked-in to invest in one ISA in that tax year which is what she wanted. 
However, whilst she was free to invest her allowance where she chose to  the onus 
wouldve been on her to ensure that her contributions were going to the right place.  Whilst I appreciate the point Mrs S makes about the renaming of her ISA and Pot  from My 
Nutmeg Pot to My Nutmeg ISA  it may still have caused some confusion with regards to 
where she thought the money was going, the naming wouldve predated the incident.  
I agree with Nutmeg that the pot name doesnt affect the ISA status of the contribution. 
Instead Im conscious that a contribution will be allocated to an ISA, but only if a customer 
has an ISA open, with allowance available. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Nutmeg made clear the importance of the auto-renew 
function so Mrs B knew or ought reasonably to have known the risk involved, even if other 
accounts werent visible to her. In other words, it explained that this function opens up a new 
ISA account each tax year, therefore if the setting is on it will prevent the funds from 
accidentally going into the GIA even if it was showing as a single account on the portal. 
I appreciate Mrs S says how could Nutmeg expect her to understand what was going on. But 
if she was confused or unsure about where her funds would be going, she had the option to 
ask Nutmeg about fund allocation, especially in light of the change she manually made.  
I appreciate Mrs S thought she was contributing into her ISA, and Ive no doubt this is what 
she intended to do. But, in the circumstances, I cant blame Nutmeg for her (wrongly) 
assuming that her funds were going into a particular account  whilst her auto-renew was 
off.   
So, to summarise, I note the auto-renew wasnt on, so inevitably Nutmeg wouldnt have 
automatically opened a new ISA. So, when Mrs S paid her money it wouldve gone into the 
GIA, regardless of where she intended it to go. 
In other words, I agree with the investigator that Mrs Ss £16,000 contribution was (correctly) 
paid into her GIA in accordance with the settings on her account, rather than the 2018/2019 
ISA wrapper.   
Im mindful of the Mrs Ss other points, but its not for me to tell Nutmeg how to run its 
business in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement. 
I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman