DRN-2593981
The complaint
Miss D complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold her a life assurance and critical illness 
policy, and an income protection policy.
What happened
In 2004, Miss D received advice from a broker, for which Reassure has taken responsibility. 
She was taking out a new mortgage and was advised on policies that may be suitable for 
her. Miss D was sold a decreasing term assurance policy which covered her mortgage 
should she pass away or have one of the specified critical illnesses during the term. She was 
also sold an income protection policy which would pay out £650 per month after a period of 
six months if she couldnt work due to illness.
Miss D has told us she felt pressured into taking these policies. She said she was told she 
had to take them to avoid paying the broker commission. She explained these policies 
werent suitable for her. Specifically, she said she wouldnt have taken out a decreasing term 
assurance policy, shed have taken out a level term policy to ensure something was left for 
her family as well. She feels the income protection policy wasnt needed because she had 
secure employment and excellent sickness benefits. She also said she had savings and 
could rely on family support.
ReAssure felt the decreasing term assurance was suitable for Miss D. It also felt that income 
protection was suitable for her but noted the deferred period should have been 12 months 
due to Miss Ds existing benefits. It noted the premiums stopped for this policy in 2019. So, it 
offered to refund the difference in premiums had the policy been set up correctly, plus 
interest. It also offered Miss D £50 compensation for some complaint handling issues. 
Miss D felt she didnt need the policy at all so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt the offer ReAssure had made was fair. He explained that he felt the 
decreasing term assurance was suitable for Miss D at the time. She confirmed she wanted 
life cover in her complaint, and the term and amount matched the mortgage she had. So, he 
didnt think the advisor had given an unsuitable recommendation. He also thought income 
protection could be useful. He acknowledged Miss Ds other benefits and savings but 
explained that this doesnt mean it would be unsuitable for her. He explained that once her 
sick pay entitlement ran out this policy would ensure her mortgage repayments and some 
other bills would be paid. And, whilst she felt her employer wouldve continued to pay her, 
there wasnt anything to suggest this would always be the case. So, he thought the offer to 
refund the difference in premiums had the policy been set up correctly was fair.
The investigator also explained there was nothing to show Miss D was forced into taking it, 
and whilst there wasnt any paperwork, sometimes brokers gave consumers the option of 
taking out policies instead of paying a broker fee. This may have happened here but it didnt 
appear that Miss D didnt have a choice.
Miss D disagreed. She explained that she had no need for the income protection policy and 
demonstrated this because she didnt claim on it when she was off work. She also said her 
employer would pay beyond the initial 12 months sick pay and would also redeploy her into a 
suitable role. She asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has made a number of points in relation to why she thinks her income protection 
policy was mis-sold, Ive considered all of these points but wont be addressing them 
individually. Instead, Ill be looking overall at whether the advice Miss D received was 
suitable, and if not, whether Reassure has done enough to put things right.
Term assurance 
Miss D was sold a decreasing term assurance policy which matched both the term and 
amount of her mortgage. This policy also included critical illness cover. Miss D has said she 
was pressured to take this out. Ive not seen any evidence to show that Miss D didnt have a 
choice. She says she took it out to avoid paying commission. As our investigator explained, 
some brokers gave consumers an option to pay a broker fee for their mortgage advice, or to 
take out insurance policies with them. If this was the case here, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Miss D wasnt able to make the choice to pay a broker fee instead. In any event, the 
advisor had to ensure any recommendation was suitable for Miss D based on her 
circumstances.
Miss D was purchasing a house with her partner. She was employed at the time and didnt 
appear to have any other cover in place which would repay her mortgage if shed passed 
away or had one of the specified illnesses. Miss D has said throughout that she wouldve 
taken a level term policy if it was offered as she felt that she wouldnt pay the same amount 
each month for a policy that decreases in value. I can understand this point, however 
ReAssure had to offer suitable advice at the time. And as Miss Ds mortgage was on a 
repayment basis, the decreasing term option was suitable for her needs. I cant see she had 
any other protection in place to cover the whole of her mortgage if shed passed away or 
became critically ill so I dont think this policy was unsuitable. And I dont think ReAssure had 
a duty to present a level term policy as an alternative as the policy she had was the more 
suitable policy in the circumstances. Overall I think there was a need for life cover and 
critical illness cover and I dont think ReAssures recommendation was unsuitable for Miss D 
at the time.
Income protection
Miss D was also sold an income protection policy. This policy would pay out £650 per month 
after a deferred period of six months if she couldnt do her job due to an illness or accident. 
This covered her mortgage repayment and the same term. This means that if Miss D 
became unable to carry out her role due to an illness or an accident then her mortgage 
repayments would be covered under this policy, after the deferred period.
Miss D has told us she had six months full sick pay and six months half sick pay as part of 
her employee benefits. This means the deferred period of six months wasnt right. ReAssure 
has recognised this and said it should have set the policy up with a 12 month deferred 
period, meaning the policy would pay out after shed been unable to work for 12 months. 
Reassure has offered her a refund of the difference in premiums plus interest to put this 
right. I think this is fair and it puts Miss D in the position shed be in had she been given the 
correct policy at the outset.Miss D says she didnt need this policy at all as her employer would likely pay her sick pay 
beyond the 12 months. She also said she would be redeployed if she couldnt do the specific 
functions of her role, and that she had savings to rely on. I can see Miss D had a period 
where she was off work for 16 months but didnt claim on the policy. It may be she can make 
a retrospective claim but shed need to contact the policy provider for that. What I can see is 
that she kept her job after that time off. But this doesnt mean having income protection 
insurance was unsuitable for her when she was sold it in 2004.
This policy meant she would receive a monthly payment throughout the term of her 
mortgage if an illness or accident meant she couldnt work any longer. I understand her 
employer has many policies in place which could see Miss D redeployed but this isnt a 
guarantee. And if something happened to Miss D which meant she couldnt carry out a role 
with her employer, this policy may have been useful.
I understand Miss D had savings at the time, shes not shown us how much she had at the 
time but I dont think its reasonable to rely on savings as something that would always be 
there. She was purchasing a house and there are a number of things that could happen that 
may have used up her savings at the time so I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable. I 
also dont think that a reliance on her family would also make this policy unsuitable for her. 
Overall I dont think ReAssure did something wrong when it recommended an income 
protection policy based on Miss Ds circumstances at the time. But I do agree that the 
deferment period was too short for Miss D. So, I think it should pay her the offer it made to 
her already.
Ive noted ReAssure also offered £50 compensation for the delay in dealing with Miss Ds 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt something covered by this service in these 
circumstances, so I wont be commenting whether I think that amount is fair. Miss D should 
contact ReAssure directly if shed like to accept this compensation.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited must pay Miss D the offer it has made her. For clarity this is the difference 
in premiums between her income protection policy, and a policy with a 12 month deferment 
period. To these premiums it should add 8% simple interest from the date the premiums 
were paid to the date of settlement.
If ReAssure Limited considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest 
paid, it should issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Miss D may be able to 
reclaim the tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
My final decision
The offer ReAssure Limited made is fair and reasonable. ReAssure Limited must now pay 
Miss D that offer set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman