DRN-2857423
The complaint
Mr P complained that when he asked Salary Finance Limited (SF) for a loan, it said that
this was approved, and told him hed be paid the money within a couple of days. But then,
after hed spent this money, SF said that it was a mistake.
  
What happened
Mr P told us hed taken loans with SF before. On 19 December 2019, he wanted to apply for
another top up loan of a further £1,000, and he contacted SF to ask if this was possible. It
told him on 20 December that hed successfully gone through the application, and the funds
would be sent out within 2 working days. Mr P asked if that meant hed have the money by
23 December, and the agent confirmed he would.
Mr P then contacted SF again, on 24 December, to say that he hadnt got the money yet.
The agent who responded told Mr P that when it told him earlier his loan had gone through
and he would get the money, it had meant the top-up loan hed applied for the month before,
on 19 November. There was no loan approved for him in December. And that agent told Mr
P he couldnt make another loan application for three months.
Mr P said hed made purchases based on the expectation of receiving this money. Because
this money was spent, Mr P said he couldnt pay his rent and bills for that month. SF said
that when it asked about this, Mr P said that he wasnt behind on his rent, and he had been
able to pay his priority bills. But then in March 2020 Mr P entered into a debt relief order. Mr
P said this was partly because the loan SF had promised him wasnt made.
SF said it was sorry that its agent had given Mr P incorrect information. Theyd made a
genuine mistake. But SF thought Mr P wouldve known what the application process was,
and knew he hadnt been through that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that SF had made a
mistake, but it had corrected this quickly. And Mr P was familiar with the loans process that
SF uses, and he knew he hadnt filled in an application. She didnt think it was SFs fault that
Mr P had spent money which wasnt in his account. She thought that SFs offer of a voucher
for £20, or £20 in cash, was fair.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that SF said that his money was on the way, and didnt know
about the mistake until later, when he queried it. Mr P said that companies processes
change all of the time and it is not the consumers job to keep up to date with these
processes. It was SFs responsibility to ensure it provided clear and accurate information.
Which in this case it did not do.
Mr P wanted to appeal, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
.
Theres no dispute that this was SFs mistake. But SF has argued that Mr P ought to 
have realised it was a mistake, because hed only recently been through the top up 
process. So he knew he needed to complete a formal application form, and he hadnt 
done that.
In answer to that, Mr P just says its not his job to keep up with how SF wants to 
administer its business. He should be able to rely on what it tells him.
Looking at the question Mr P asked SF, I can see that he wanted a loan for £1,000. 
His November 2019 loan wasnt for that amount. So when SF told Mr P that he was 
getting this loan, for £1,000, I dont think it was clear that there had been confusion 
with his earlier loan. Nor do I think it shouldve been obvious to Mr P (who had given 
SF up to date details of his personal situation only the month before) that he needed 
to do this again. So I dont agree with SFs suggestion that Mr P shouldve realised 
this was a mistake.
And that means I think this mistake is rather more serious than SF has suggested. A
payment of £20 doesnt seem to me to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this.
Mr P wanted SF to pay the £1,000 now. But if hed been given that money by SF, it 
wouldve been a loan, with an expectation hed pay it back. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to insist that SF gives him a loan now. Our service doesnt usually 
tell businesses who they should loan money to. And I dont think it would be right to 
depart from that usual approach here, particularly as Mr P has told us hes entered 
into a debt relief order.
And I dont think thats what happened in this case would mean that SF has to simply 
pay Mr P £1,000 in compensation. That wouldnt be consistent with awards Ive made 
in other cases. But Ive explained I do think it needs to pay more than £20. Mr P 
found out after hed spent money that he wasnt getting a large extension on his loan. 
Hes told us this contributed to his debt relief order. I can also see that Mr P asked for 
this loan just before Christmas, a time when finances are often difficult for people.
I think a payment of £200 to Mr P would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. So thats what I currently propose to award in this case. If SF has paid 
the £20 it offered, then it can count that towards my award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P replied, to say he didnt think Id awarded enough compensation. He said he was 
pleased to see that Id decided this situation was caused by SFs incorrect information. But 
he thought that £200 was below a fair resolution for this matter based purely on the fact that it was only because he contacted SF to update his application that the mistake was 
acknowledged. SF didnt try to contact him to tell him about the mistake. 
Mr P said he accepted why I wasnt awarding £1,000 but he thought he was only going to 
get reimbursed 20% of what hed been left out of pocket. He said because SF made the 
mistake, not him, it should take the majority of the loss. He suggested that he get 51% of the 
money he was out of pocket, which would total £510.
I dont think that would be appropriate in this case. Thats because I dont think that this 
complaint has left Mr P £1,000 out of pocket. Mr P was asking SF for a loan, not a gift. If SF 
had completed the loan, it wouldve paid him £1,000. But then, once interest was added to 
that loan, Mr P would have been expected to pay rather more than this back. So I dont think 
that Mr P has missed out on a payment of £1,000 which he would otherwise have been 
expecting to just be able to keep. 
For that reason, my assessment of compensation in this case isnt based on the amount 
Mr P hoped to borrow. Its based on my understanding of how this issue has affected him. 
Thats why I said SF should pay him £200 now.
Mr P also said that he didnt tell SF hed fallen behind with his rent, what he said was that he 
was arranging a payment plan with his landlord. He sent us evidence to show hed spoken to 
his landlord about that. I note this, but I dont think that this difference in the conversation Mr 
P had with his landlord, or SFs understanding of that, affects the outcome of this complaint. 
SF replied to say that it thought Id awarded too much compensation. It still thought that, 
although it made a mistake in the information provided to Mr P, he had enough
information to know that he had not been through the appropriate process to obtain a further 
top up loan. 
SF said it operates top up loans so each top up is a completely new loan, with a new 
reference and the previous loan account closed as a result. Mr P had taken a top up loan 
only a month before. He went through SFs application process, then signed a new loan 
agreement. So SF thought he knew what the process was.
SF said that, as Mr P had provided updated information regarding his circumstances only a 
month earlier, it was possible that SF wouldnt have needed him to send this in again. But 
SF said it hadnt told Mr P how any additional £1,000 would be repaid, and what the 
implications would be for his regular repayment amounts. SF said that to expect to receive a 
loan with no discussion of repayment amounts would be highly irregular.
For those reasons, SF said it thought that a payment of £200 was higher than it would 
expect to offer. But it said it accepted its previous offer of £20 might be too low, so it would 
be prepared to increase this to £50 in light of the distress caused to Mr P as a result of the 
error made by its agent.
I set out in my provisional decision that I didnt think Mr P shouldve realised that SF had 
made a mistake, and it hadnt processed a loan for him, just because Mr P hadnt been 
asked to provide the same information again as hed recently offered SF. For the avoidance 
of doubt, I also dont think that Mr P shouldve assumed, because he hadnt received 
paperwork confirming his loan, that SF was entirely wrong when it told him the loan was 
approved and he would shortly receive the money. Its not unreasonable for Mr P to think 
that SF would reach a decision first, then send paperwork to complete the formalities for its 
agreement with him.So I still think that this mistake is more serious than SF suggested. And I set out in my 
provisional decision, what impact I thought this had on Mr P. I think its particularly important 
to note that Mr P told us the need to cover this sudden shortfall of £1,000 in his finances is 
part of the reason why he ended up with a debt relief order. So I dont think a payment of 
£50 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint either. I still think SF 
should pay Mr P £200. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Salary Finance Limited must pay Mr P £200 in compensation. If 
Salary Finance Limited has paid Mr P the £20 it offered, then it can count that towards my 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman