DRN-4036429
The complaint
Mr G complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt give him reasonable notice to 
repay his overdraft.
What happened
Mr G had a bank account with RBS with an overdraft facility. In April 2022, no payments had 
been made into the account for twelve months.  RBS declared the account dormant. It also 
asked for the overdraft balance to be repaid. 
Mr G agrees the amount was owed and says he has no issue repaying it but is unhappy 
about the way RBS went about requesting the repayment. He thinks the time frame was 
unreasonable and is unhappy that his account has been defaulted even though he made a 
payment within the two day deadline he was given.
RBS didnt uphold his complaint in either of the final responses it sent.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found RBS had sent multiple letters to Mr G 
to make him aware of the overdraft outstanding on the account. He also found RBS had sent 
emails tried to call Mr G and left voicemails. As no response was received, he thought RBS 
has correctly followed their process and defaulted the account.
Mr G disagreed. He said RBS failed to mention theyd received a payment on account after a 
text regarding the account being dormant. And that hed made a previous complaint from a 
few years ago which clearly stated a problem with mail so they were aware of this. He also 
asked for a response on the second part of his complaint about the complaint team 
extending the time frame and the reoccurring negative impact on his credit file.
Our investigator reviewed matters. He said hed considered the key aspects of the complaint 
and the further information form Mr G hadnt changed his view on this. The case has now 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
The issue here is that Mr G thinks RBS shouldve done more to let him know there was a 
problem on his account and it required payment or would default it. But I disagree. Like the 
investigator I think Mr G should have had sufficient awareness this amount was owing on his 
account. I also think RBS made sufficient efforts to contact Mr G via letter, email phone calls 
and voice mails. I think its done everything it should and has defaulted the account in line 
with the terms of the agreement. And I think RBS has also reported an accurate reflection of 
the activity on the account to credit reference agencies. Ill explain my reasons for thinking 
this. 
The debt manager notes from RBS satisfy me that - in addition to the letters - it sent 
multiple emails to Mr G on 23 and 24 April 2022, 14 May 2022, 9 June, and 30 July 
2022. Those notes also satisfy me that RBS made multiple calls to Mr G and left 
voice mails when it was unable to contact him. And that - before the final text 
message which Mr G says gave him just two days notice to make payment - RBS 
had previously sent text messages to Mr G on 7 May and 1 June 2022.
RBSs contact address details for Mr G record a moblie number that hasnt changed 
or been updated since 12 March 2019. The last three digits of that number match the 
number thats recorded in the debt manager notes to which calls, voicemails and 
texts were sent. Mr G accepts he received the last text message so, on balance, Im 
persuaded its more likely than not he received the earlier ones Ive seen in the 
notes. And that he would have seen missed calls and had voicemails to this number 
too. 
Those contact details also record a previous landline which was only updated after 
the default on 3 August 2022. The debt manager notes show multiple unanswered 
calls being made to a number sharing the same two final digits as the recorded 
number up and until 3 August 2022. So, again on balance, Im persuaded RBS also 
contacted him this way.
I can only deal with the matters raised in this complaint. But even if I accept what Mr 
G tells us about a previous complaint flagging a problem with his post - which he 
says meant RBS should have been aware of problems with post - it doesnt change 
my overall view on the matter for a number of reasons.
Firstly, although I acknowledge that Mr G said he didnt receive letters from RBS, the 
records satisfy me they were sent. I dont know why it is that Mr Gs had problems 
receiving his mail, but I cannot safely conclude that this is as a result of something 
that RBS has done wrong. So, it wouldnt be right for me to hold RBS responsible for 
this. Secondly, its clear from RBSs records it used multiple other methods to contact 
Mr G using the correct details they had recorded for him at the relevant time. So, Im 
not persuaded he was given just the two days notice - over a weekend - that he 
suggests. Finally, as Mr Gs highlighted the issue to us I think he wouldve been 
aware of problematic post. So, I think he ought reasonably to have been aware that 
other methods of contact requesting to discuss the account or notifying him of 
dormancy may not have given him the full picture. 
As well as the obligations on RBS to give Mr G reasonable notice of action on this 
account, Mr G has a responsibility to manage this account within its terms. That 
includes making sure his contact information was up to date and correct. And to meet 
his obligations to pay sums due under the terms of the account. Aside from any 
information or communication RBS sent to him, it was for Mr G to check the account 
and ensure all was in order and as he expected. Mr G would see on on opening and 
reading his monthly statement his overdrawn account the amount that was owed. He 
would also be aware that - although hed used to account as recently as March 2022 
to spend money - he hadnt made payments for some time. 
RBS have an obligation to report accurately to credit reference agencies. The 
payment Mr G made to the account when he says he became aware didnt satisfy the 
demand in the default notice. So, as I dont think RBS made any mistakes here I 
cant ask them to alter what theyve reported. 
This service doesnt have a free hand to consider every complaint which is referred to us. 
We must follow the rules, which say what we can and cant look at. These rules are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. They are known as the Dispute Rules. One of 
the Dispute Rules sets out that our service can only consider complaints which are about 
certain issues  in short, regulated activities or things very closely linked to those activities. 
But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. What RBS was doing in extending any time 
was solely responding to the complaint. So, I dont think that our service is able to consider 
this part of his complaint.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think RBS have done anything wrong 
here and Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman