DRN-2853883
Complaint
Mr B says HSBC Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he was the victim of a 
scam.
Background
Mr B has a bank account with HSBC. From January 2020, this account was used to make a 
range of payments that Mr B believed related to an investment opportunity. Unfortunately, Mr 
B had been tricked into making the transfers to a scammer.
At the time, Mr B had been looking for investment opportunities. Hed also recently obtained 
good returns when investing his money via a separate platform. He found a company online 
and made contact. He spoke with someone who purported to be an employee of the 
company. They said theyd assist Mr B with placing investments in cryptocurrency.
The scammer helped Mr B to create an account with a cryptocurrency platform and directed 
him to buy bitcoin. The platform was operated by a separate business to HSBC. He then 
transferred the bitcoin from his wallet on the platform directly to the scammer. He was 
promised a quick return of around 15%. Around one month after these events began, the 
scammer transferred to him roughly 15% of his initial payment, which gave him the false 
confidence to continue to invest.
After a couple of months, Mr B believed that his investment was worth around £300,000  
but he was told by the scammer that hed need to make a substantial payment in order to 
access it. He was told this was to cover associated taxes and administrative expenses.
At this point, he says he discussed the situation with a relative who had a great deal of 
experience in financial services. This relative didnt think the company was legitimate and 
warned Mr B that it was a scam. Nonetheless, Mr B agreed to make these final payments to 
the scammer. He told us that he had become so caught up in the notion that he was a 
successful trader that he didnt attach much weight to this warning.
Mr B decided to take out a loan of over £30,000 to pay what he believed were the 
administrative fees for accessing his investment. There was no further contact with the 
scammers after that point. In total, Mr B spent just under £165,000 in buying bitcoin. From 
the account hes given us, almost the entire value of these transfers was funded by loans 
which the scammers persuaded Mr B to take out.
Mr B complained that HSBC shouldve done more to protect him from the scam. HSBC 
replied to say that it didnt think he was the victim of a scam, but that this was really a private 
civil dispute about the fact that he hadnt received the investment returns he was hoping for.
Mr B was unhappy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service. 
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator 
disagreed with HSBCs conclusion that this should be considered a civil dispute  Mr B has 
certainly been the victim of a scam. But the investigator concluded that, even if HSBC had 
intervened and questioned these transfers with Mr B, it wouldnt have made a difference.
He appeared to be very confident about the legitimacy of the investment that he was willing 
to make an initial payment of £50,000. This was on the back of successfully making a return 
on another investment platform and taking advice from a trusted friend who had experience 
in this area. The investigator thought it was unlikely a conversation with a bank employee 
wouldve been enough to dissuade him from taking the actions he did. Mr B disagreed with 
the investigators opinion. He said he had a long relationship with HSBC and trusted their 
advice. He said that, if HSBC had questioned the payments, he wouldve acted differently.
Because Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I dont doubt that Mr B has been the victim of a cruel and 
cynical scam, nor that his belief that this was a legitimate investment opportunity was 
genuine. But my role here is limited to considering the action or inaction on the part of HSBC 
and whether, if it ought to have acted differently, it wouldve been able to prevent the scam.
When setting out his complaint, Mr B has described in detail his understanding of HSBCs 
obligations and what he thinks the implications of those obligations are. For the sake of 
clarity, Ill set out in full what I need to consider when reaching a decision on his complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Mr B referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) but the 
provisions of that code dont apply in all circumstances. In this case, because Mr B 
transferred money from HSBC account to another account that he controlled (rather than 
directly to the eventual recipient) HSBC isnt required to consider his complaint under the 
CRM Code. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story: 
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements.  At the time of this scam, those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).   
The law itself also recognises that a bank may liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). I am mindful, however, that 
the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case. I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in this 
case, only to make the point that the broad legal position that a bank is expected to 
process payments that a customer authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like 
the other matters I have referred to here) is an example of that. 
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice, I consider HSBC should in any event have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
Should HSBC have intervened?
Ive considered the steps taken by HSBC in light of the obligations Ive set out above. Having 
done so, I agree with Mr B that there were failings on the part of HSBC and that it shouldve 
intervened.
The payments that he made represented a significant change in the way that the account 
had been used up until that point. Ive looked at statement data for a period before the scam 
started and it was unusual for him to make transfers of such a large size. It should also have 
been apparent that Mr B was transferring the proceeds of loans. Thats not an uncommon 
element of scams like this one and it ought to have been a cause for concern.
HSBC shouldve questioned these payments with him in order to reasonably satisfy itself 
that he was not at risk of financial harm. It couldve asked him about how he found out about 
the company that was assisting him with the investments, the returns hed been promised or 
the process that he had been asked to follow in order to participate.
However, the fact that Ive found HSBC shouldve intervened doesnt necessarily mean that 
the complaint must be upheld. I need to also be satisfied that HSBCs failure to intervene was the cause of his losses and consider whether it wouldve made a difference if it had 
questioned these payments with him.
In this case, Mr B transferred money from his account with HSBC to another of his accounts 
held with the cryptocurrency platform. He then transferred the cryptocurrency from that 
account to the fraudster. Im not persuaded that it was the transfers from his HSBC account 
(and HSBCs failure to intervene in those transfers) that caused Mr Bs losses here. He 
wouldnt have suffered any financial loss if it hadnt been for his subsequent transfer with the 
cryptocurrency platform. That subsequent transfer was the actual cause of his losses here 
and isnt something for which HSBC can be held responsible.
However, even if I did think HSBC could be held responsible for his losses, I dont think it 
wouldve been able to prevent the scam. I should be clear that I cant know for certain how 
events wouldve transpired if HSBC had handled things differently. I must reach a conclusion 
on the balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available 
evidence. Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that a proportionate 
intervention by HSBC wouldve prevented the scam from taking place. 
While it is now known with the benefit of hindsight that Mr B was being exploited by a 
fraudster, I dont think it wouldve been possible for an HSBC employee to identify that just 
by asking him questions about the investment.  If Mr B had been asked in detail about these 
payments, its likely he wouldve simply said that he was investing in cryptocurrency. 
Cryptocurrency is a non-mainstream asset for a customer to invest, but that fact alone 
wouldnt automatically lead to the conclusion that this was a scam. After discussing these 
payments with Mr B, HSBC would likely uncover that Mr B found the company he was 
dealing with by researching online (rather than being cold-called  a common feature of 
investment scams), that he had some experience of non-mainstream investments (such as 
derivatives) and that hed discussed his cryptocurrency investment plans with a trusted 
friend who had a great deal of experience and success in this area. The payments he was 
making were to a legitimate business running a cryptocurrency exchange. All in all, HSBC 
wouldnt have had any grounds for doing anything other than taking Mr Bs explanation at 
face value.
Even if an employee of the bank suspected that this was a scam, I think its unlikely that 
theyd have been able to break the spell Mr B was under. He conceded that he was 
confident he knew what he was doing, given his previous investment successes and the 
guidance from his friend. He had also carried out some basic checks on the company he 
was dealing with. His only online searches found neutral reviews with occasional complaints 
about delays in returning funds. Its difficult to see realistically how an HSBC employee 
couldve changed Mr Bs mindset.
Mr B disagrees with that. He says hes had a customer relationship with HSBC for decades 
and he wouldve trusted any warning he was given, or at least proceeded more cautiously in 
the light of that warning. Unfortunately, I dont think thats supported by the evidence. Mr B 
has conceded that he discussed the two later payments with a family member who had a 
great deal of experience in the financial services industry. That family member told him 
unambiguously that he was being scammed but this wasnt enough to prevent Mr B from 
making further payments to the fraudster. A close member of Mr Bs family with relevant 
expertise failed to break the spell Mr B was under. I find it very unlikely that an employee of 
the bank couldve succeeded where they failed. 
Finally, Mr B has mentioned that he was involved in a serious road traffic accident many 
years ago and that this has left him with memory problems and cognitive difficulties. Hes said that this may have made him more vulnerable to scams like this one and that HSBC 
shouldve taken far greater care in the light of those individual circumstances.
However, from what Mr B has told us, he hadnt at any point told HSBC that he needed 
additional support. Hes said that HSBC was certainly aware that he was in the accident, but 
theres nothing to suggest he shared anything about the difficulties it had caused him at any 
point in the subsequent years. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC to a 
higher standard if it wasnt aware of Mr Bs individual circumstances.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman