DRN-3135700
The complaint
Mr A complains that due to a system problem he was not able to use the services of HiFX 
Europe Limited to make a foreign currency exchange. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. The facts are not in dispute as both parties agree a problem with security 
authentication meant Mr A couldnt make his intended transaction online - so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr A has asked to be compensated for a financial loss in the difference between 
exchange rates from when he wanted to make the transaction and when it was 
eventually made some time later. HiFX has offered £400 as compensation for the 
inconvenience caused, but not considered any actual financial loss. 
Theres no doubt there were problems with Mr As account that prevented him 
making the transaction he wanted online. And I know he has made many online 
transactions in the past. However I must consider that online is only one of the ways 
that transactions can be made. HiFX also accept transfer instructions over the 
telephone and this option was always available to Mr A. 
Because there were other methods available to Mr A in order to make the 
transaction, Im satisfied HiFX dont need to cover any potential financial loss. Using 
the telephone might not have been convenient for Mr A but it wouldve allowed him to 
make the transaction he wanted. 
There was some inconvenience caused by the problems Mr A experienced and to 
recognise this HiFX has offered £400. Looking at what happened and taking into 
account things such as the effort Mr A went to in contacting HiFX, and the time it took 
to fix the problem, I think the offer is fair.
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied £400 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. 
Putting things right
In order to resolve the complaint HiFX Europe Limited should pay Mr A £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and HiFX Europe Limited 
should pay Mr A £400 as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman