DRN-3747293
The complaint
Mr D complains about Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) and the fee they are charging 
him following a successful Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim that he feels they had 
no authority to pursue.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr D signed a joint letter of authority (LOA) with his wife, authorising BCS 
to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against lender X. Mr D says he signed this LOA on the 
understanding BCS would only be looking into the joint accounts he and his wife held.
BCS sent this LOA to lender X in March 2019, asking them to investigate all accounts Mr D 
and his wife held. Following this instruction, lender X identified mis-sold PPI on a loan Mr D 
took out in his name only. So, in February 2020, lender X wrote to Mr D explaining they had 
upheld the claim, offering him a PPI refund. Within this letter, lender X explained they didnt 
hold a valid LOA from BCS and so, without this, they would continue to liaise with Mr D 
directly.
In January 2022, lender X made BCS aware of this refund paid to Mr D via spreadsheet. And 
so, around the same time, BCS invoiced Mr D for their fee. But Mr D was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr D didnt think BCS were authorised to pursue the claim in his sole name that lender X 
had upheld. And he thought this was evidenced by the letter he received from lender X, 
explaining they didnt hold a valid LOA. So, he didnt think the invoice he received was 
reasonable and he wanted it to be waived.
BCS responded and didnt agree. They thought Mr D provided them with authority over all 
accounts he held with lender X when he signed the joint LOA in 2019. And they thought their 
submission made to lender X had directly resulted in the PPI refund Mr D received. So, they 
thought they were fair to invoice Mr D for their fee, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement Mr D entered into when he signed the LOA. While they recognised it had 
been some time since Mr D had received the refund, they thought Mr D shouldve told them 
about the payment at the time. So, they didnt think they needed to waive their invoice, or do 
anything more. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the 
submission BCS sent to lender X led to the PPI refund Mr D received. And they thought Mr 
D had entered into an agreement with BCS which wasnt impacted by lender Xs opinion that 
they didnt hold a valid LOA. So, as our investigator thought Mr Ds refund resulted directly 
from the work BCS completed, they thought BCS acted fairly, and in line with their terms and 
conditions, when invoicing Mr D for their fee. So, they didnt think BCS needed to do 
anything more.
BCS accepted this recommendation. But Mr D didnt. He maintained his belief that the LOA 
he signed was for his joint accounts only, and that hed never instructed or authorised BCS 
to pursue mis-sold PPI on his sole accounts. So, he maintained his belief that BCS didnt 
hold authority over the claim and because of this, he didnt think the invoice they sent him 
was fair. He also stated his concerns regarding the value of the invoice in comparison to the 
work BCS completed, as he accepted BCS did make the original submission to lender X. As 
Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I dont doubt Mr D 
assumed that by signing the LOA in joint names, BCS were authorised to look into his joint 
accounts only. So, when this assumption is coupled with the fact lender X told Mr D in their 
offer letter they didnt hold a valid LOA for BCS, I can understand why Mr D would think he 
had no obligation to pay BCS a fee for the PPI refund he received.
Because of this, I can appreciate the shock and upset Mr D wouldve felt when he received 
BCS invoice, which was for a substantial amount of money, an extended period of time after 
Mr D had received the refund. Due to this lapse in time, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume Mr D had spent the refund he received and so, paying BCS invoice is likely to 
cause disruption to Mr Ds short term finances at a time where the cost of living has 
impacted most of the country. So, I can understand why Mr D would feel unfairly treated and 
why Mr D expects the invoice to be waived.
But for me to say BCS should waive the fee theyve invoiced Mr D for, I first need to be 
satisfied BCS have done something wrong when charging it. So, Id need to be satisfied that 
BCS completed no work of value to the claim and so, charging for a fee would be unfair. Or, 
if I think BCS actions did lead to the fee Mr D received, then Id need to be satisfied they 
werent instructed to complete this work, or that they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mr D entered into when calculating their fee. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case. 
It's not in dispute that Mr D signed the joint LOA in 2019. So, Ive looked at this LOA to 
understand exactly what it authorised BCS to do. I can see by signing the LOA, Mr D agreed 
to I/we expressly authorise {BCS} to liaise with the bank to obtain any information regarding 
any accounts I/we have held. And above this, it explains that the LOA is applicable to all 
current and previous loans, mortgages, credit cards, store cards, hire purchase agreements, 
catalogues and overdrafts with your company. So, although I appreciate Mr D may not have 
been aware of this, I think this LOA authorised BCS to make claims for mis-sold PPI on any 
accounts Mr D held with lender X, whether the account be in sole or joint names. The LOA 
also explains that, by signing it, Mr D had read the terms and conditions and agreed to be 
bound by their contents. 
I recognise its also not in dispute that BCS provided the initial claim submission to lender X, 
as Mr D has accepted this and questioned whether the fee being charged is a fair reflection 
of this work. Because of this, Im satisfied BCS submitted the claim that led to the refund Mr 
D received.
So, Im satisfied that BCS did have authority to pursue the claim on Mr Ds behalf. And Im satisfied that by signing the LOA, Mr D entered into an agreement with BCS that Ive seen 
no evidence to show was cancelled at any time.
And Im satisfied that, from the claim BCS submitted, Mr D received a PPI refund. Mr D 
received this refund after the expiry of the PPI deadline and so, Im satisfied that without 
BCS submission, Mr D wouldnt have received this refund. For these reasons, I think BCS 
were fair to invoice Mr D for their fee, in line with the fee structure set out within the terms 
and conditions of the agreement Mr D entered in. And because of this, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to direct BCS to waive this fee, nor do I think it would be fair for me to say BCS 
should do something more.
I understand Mr D is unlikely to agree with this outcome. And I recognise lender X did 
explain to Mr D that they didnt hold a valid LOA from BCS and so, they took the decision to 
liaise with him directly.
But the LOA, and its validity, is an issue between BCS and lender X as it provides lender X 
with the reassurance that BCS are acting on Mr Ds behalf. It doesnt impact the agreement 
held between Mr D and BCS.
And it was standard industry practice at the time for lenders to expect a new LOA every six 
months. So, when lender X came to review Mr Ds claim, the LOA BCS sent wouldve been 
older than this six-month time frame. But this was through no fault of BCS, as there were 
significant delays in lenders such as lender X progressing PPI claims due to the volume sent 
in the months leading up to the PPI deadline. So, I dont think BCS did anything wrong that 
led to lender X questioning the validity of their authority.
And even so, I can see in 2022 lender X did disclose the result of the claim and the amount 
Mr D was sent. I wouldnt expect lender X to do this if they didnt recognise BCS as Mr Ds 
representative in the claim. And I think its also worth noting that at the point lender X chose 
to liaise with Mr D directly, they had already investigated and decided on Mr Ds claim. So, I 
dont think Mr Ds direct communication with lender X had an impact on the refund he 
received and so, I dont think lender X saying that they no longer had valid authority meant 
Mr D was unfairly disadvantaged or needed to complete further work that BCS shouldve 
done.
But I do recognise the invoice BCS sent to Mr D came some time after Mr D received the 
PPI refund. While I do believe Mr D had a responsibility to make BCS aware of any refund 
he received in line with the terms and conditions of the account, I accept there has been 
some confusion on Mr Ds end. And I think its reasonable for me to assume the refund 
amount Mr D received has been spent. So, I would expect BCS to act positively and 
sympathetically towards Mr Ds financial situation considering this and look to agree an 
affordable way of repaying the fee that is owed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman