DRN-2886542
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the online services provided by Metro Bank PLC (Metro). 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
In August 2020 raised a complaint with Metro about its services. This included 
providing a one-time password (OTP) when logging on for a second time. He said 
its service hadnt worked properly on his chosen internet browser, he was unhappy 
with changes it had made to its online banking services, that a timer had logged him 
out of the site, and that it he was unable to use special characters. He also 
mentioned an inability to copy text from its site, as well as repeatedly being asked to 
store cookies instead of once, and he was prevented from refreshing the page.
Metro said it explained any browser issues would need to be taken up with his 
service provider or by changing his settings. It said it appreciated some customers 
preferred its older platform and it has taken his feedback on board, and its timer had 
increased security. It also said it could not use special characters on its site.
Metro since acknowledged it didnt handle his complaint immediately and apologised 
for this. It was subsequently set up when he called around a month later.
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he would like Metro to acknowledge its mistakes and apologise, to amend the issues 
hed raised within its software, policies and practices, alongside staff training to avoid 
this matter happening again.
Our investigator considered what happened. He said the OTP and timer issues were 
for security purposes so he wouldnt ask Metro to remove them. He was satisfied the 
browser issues sat with Mr Hs browser and not Metro and felt its choice to not allow 
special characters was its choice to make as policy. The investigator also said the 
changes to its online banking were clearly explained in its response to him. So, he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H responded, reiterating some of his earlier concerns. The investigator looked 
again but didnt change his mind. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision. Since the view, Mr H has provided a further document 
outlining his complaint in more detail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs submissions span many pages. Within this decision I wont be responding in similar 
detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I 
will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That 
may also mean I dont comment on everything Mr H has said but I can confirm I have read 
and considered everything said by both parties. 
Mr H has been very clear on his reasons why hes unhappy with the service Metro has 
offered. And his request for a resolution involves changing Metros internal systems, policies 
and processes. This is simply outside of the remit of this service. Our service looks at 
individual complaints and decides if something went wrong. And if we think it did, we may 
direct Metro to put things right taking into account the impact of that mistake or issue.
In this case Mr H has raised several points about Metros choices in relation to its online 
banking services. Its choice of security methods and decisions about the formatting and 
appearance of its site (such as OTP, whether to allow special characters, copying text from a 
page, or including page to time out) are commercial decisions for it to make. 
For these reasons Im satisfied the points raised by Mr H are not failings or mistakes. And 
instead are purely commercial choices within Metros scope in deciding how it does 
business, even if these are choices Mr H doesnt like.
Mr H has also raised concerns about not being able to use the site using an internet browser 
of his choosing, and that it repeatedly asks about storing cookies rather than asking once. 
Im not persuaded that this is the fault of Metros site and seems that this does sit with Mr Hs 
browser or provider. But even if I was persuaded this was its fault  which Im not  I 
wouldnt be recommending it do anything further. I say this as the impact appears no more 
than minor frustration and not to a degree that I would make an award for. 
Mr Hs concerns around Metros handling of this complaint fall outside of the scope of a 
regulated activity. For this reason, Im not going to comment on them.
So, Im not directing Metro to do anything further or upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman