DRN-1744290
The complaint
M, a limited liability partnership, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account 
and would not issue a cheque for the balance in the account in a members name.
What happened
M was contacted by HSBC in June 2018 about a safeguard exercise designed to help it 
prevent fraud and financial crime. HSBC wanted to confirm information it held about M. It 
was unable to do so and gave notice that Ms account would be closed. Although M asked 
for an extension so a review could be held this did not take place and the account was 
closed in November 2018. M complained about this at the time. HSBC issued a cheque for 
the balance on the account and said that the account had been closed.
In March 2019 a member of M contacted HSBC to say that there were problems in cashing 
the cheque as it was made out to M. One of the members then asked it be paid to him and 
said he had regular contact with HSBC about this being resolved. He was told the instruction 
was not set out in accordance with the mandate. Although both members signed a letter of 
instruction in September 2019, HSBC told M in its final response to the complaint that it 
would need to show that M was not trading. It offered to pay M £500 for not clarifying its 
requirements any earlier and to pay simple interest of £746.05  based on a rate of eight per 
cent from April 2019 to its response covering the period until it had clarified its requirements.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do anything further. He said that HSBC had 
been entitled to close the account in line with its terms and conditions having made several 
attempts to obtain the information it needed for the review. And it had made a fair offer 
regarding the delay in setting out what it needed to issue a cheque other than to M. He said 
that this service wouldnt be able to tell HSBC what its processes should be. M was still 
showing as active at Companies House and this is what HSBC was considering.
M did not agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. It accepted that HSBC 
had the right to close the account and said that it was not now requesting that it be re-
opened. However, time has been wasted as it did not receive a response to its complaint in 
November 2018. It said that what is recorded at Companies House is not determinative of 
the status of a limited liability partnership. The marker of active remains until such time as it 
is in liquidation, dissolved or struck off. M could not open an account as it is not trading. M 
said that it was up to its members to confirm its status and this is currently recorded as 
dormant. M said that for HSBC to retain the funds on a basis that is legally and factually 
incorrect is unreasonable. The members have no way of accessing the funds and M wanted 
to know how that could happen or this will remain unresolved indefinitely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to refer the latest financial statements for M to HSBC and which 
stated that M was dormant and had not traded in the past accounting year. HSBC reiterated 
its position which is that it looks to the marker at Companies House showing that M is 
active. And it insisted that it has not made any mistake in not releasing the funds.
I appreciate that M accepts that HSBC had a basis to close its account. But I want to say a 
bit more about that first to set the context. HSBC has documented that it made a number of 
attempts to speak to a member of M including at a pre-arranged time before the account was 
closed. And it documented in its case record that the reason for closing the complaint was 
that it was unable to contact M. So, it says it wrote to M on 12 November 2018 confirming 
the account was closed and enclosing a cheque. Its also shown that before that date it had 
set out for the M the consequences of its account being closed and that it would need to 
make other arrangements. And that it would send a cheque for the closing balance to M 
unless it received alternative written instructions at least two weeks before the account 
closure.
In my view M was given a reasonable opportunity to deal with the information requests for 
HSBC and to make alternative banking arrangements if it did not do so. HSBC was entitled 
to request the information to ensure it complied with its legal and regulatory duties. And I 
consider that although HSBC agreed to an extension for the review there was no guarantee 
that this would be successful. And in the event a member of M was not available to complete 
this at the times arranged.
Ive looked at Ms further complaint letter to HSBC dated 30 October 2019 in which its sets 
out a chronology of what happened. In brief it says that after it submitted a complaint in 
November 2018 it made monthly calls and visited a branch. Ive not seen any record of 
anything being considered at the complaints department during this time. Or of M raising an 
issue with cashing the cheque until March 2019. It seems that in April 2019 having not heard 
back a member of M then asked HSBC how to access its funds.
Initially it was told to provide a letter of authority. I can see it did do so signed by one 
member. It was then told that this was not in line with the mandate. And it is accepted by 
HSBC that M was not given clear instructions during the period about what to provide. It had 
given an authority signed by both members on 18 September 2019 on headed paper asking 
that the money be paid to one of the members. This was not accepted by HSBC and in its 
final response to the complaint it set out that it needed confirmation that M was no longer 
active. I note M had offered to provide a statutory declaration and explained the costs of 
otherwise having to change its status.
my assessment
We provide informal dispute resolution. Here as I set out I asked HSBC if it could reconsider 
its position based on the evidence it had. In response its confirmed its process when an 
account is closed. It said that anything outside this process would be on the basis of a 
gesture of goodwill and not because it had made a mistake.
Im afraid that I dont have a basis to find its made a mistake in dealing with the funds. It 
would not be appropriate for me to direct that HSBC pay funds outside its process and other 
than to M, the complainant. So, I cant reasonably require HSBC to give M the solution it 
wants. Any HSBC account mandate for M to make payments to third parties effectively 
ended when the account was closed. Ms relationship with its members it not something I 
can look at in a complaint by M. I appreciate what the members say about the difficulties M 
faces. That stems fundamentally from the account being closed and M not being in a position to make arrangements for alternative banking. I dont think HSBC can fairly be 
responsible for those consequences.
It may be that if the members of M strengthen the evidence for HSBC possibly through a 
statutory declaration or through statements of a professional such as its accountant HSBC 
will reconsider. But that hasnt yet happened and all I can say is that I would expect HSBC to 
consider such a request fairly. 
In my view the specific issue with accessing the funds from the cheque was brought to 
HSBCs attention in April 2019. And it has offered compensation for the poor way it dealt 
with that until it clarified its position. We dont look at complaint handling as a separate 
activity and I wont be commenting further on what Ive said above. Taking everything into 
account I think HSBCs offer is a reasonable one and I wont be asking it to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. If M does not accept my decision it remains free to pursue 
this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to pay M a total of £1,246.05 to settle the complaint. I think thats 
fair in all the circumstances and so my decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay M 
£1,246.05.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman