DRN-2642394
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs S say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
The case was passed to me and after reviewing everything, I didnt feel we had answered 
the heart of Mr and Mrs S complaint. So I issued a provisional decision explaining in more 
detail why I felt the policy wasnt mis sold and why I felt I hadnt seen enough to say its more 
likely HSBC made an error and caused Mr and Mrs S to miss out on a claim. My provisional 
decision read as follows: 
HSBC had to make it clear that Mr and Mrs S had a choice in taking out the PPI. Mr and  
Mrs S havent made a specific complaint about this and dont appear to be disputing that 
they chose to take out the policy. Due to the length of time that has passed since the 
sale, HSBC no longer has all of the documents from the sale itself, which I dont think is 
unreasonable. It has been able to give me a copy of the information given when the 
mortgage was applied for. This shows that some insurance, such as building cover, 
contents insurance and PPI were taken out, but others, such as income protection 
policies were not. So it appears that Mr and Mrs S were aware they could take or decline 
products as they saw fit. In addition to this, HSBC has confirmed the policy was in Mr Ss 
name only, so I think its more likely they amended the policy to suit their circumstances 
at the time. On balance, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the policy, 
knowing they didnt have to.
HSBC no longer has a record of whether or not the policy was recommended to Mr and 
Mrs S. To be fair to Mr and Mrs S, Ive treated the sale as if it was advised, because that 
way, HSBC had to do more to make sure the policy was right for them. And the evidence 
about Mr Ss circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for him. For example he was eligible for the cover and he didnt have 
any means to fall back on if he was unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Mr S has said he was self-employed and feels this would have made it more difficult for 
him to claim on the policy. But having looked at the relevant policy documents, his 
employment wouldnt have made it any more difficult for him to claim. He hasnt told us 
about any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs S would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have also raised a specific issue around Mr S trying to make a sickness claim 
due to an injury within the first six months of the policy. The first six months of Mr and Mrs S 
policy were free, as part of a promotion at the time. They say they were told they could not 
claim during this period and as a result, had difficulties making their repayments. HSBC has 
said they contacted the insurer, and no claims were attempted on the policy. They also said 
there were no contact notes on file of any claims being attempted or discussed during the life 
of the policy.
Mr and Mrs S have said they spoke to a branch manager who told them they could not make 
a claim within the first six months. So I can understand why there were no contact notes on 
file about this, as its unlikely every branch conversation is noted down. Having looked at the 
relevant policy documents, I can see that a claim could only be made after 30 consecutive 
days of absence from work. But there is no mention of a limitation saying no claims can be 
made in the first six months. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said when Mr and Mrs S discussed their 
claim in branch. I only have a limited statement from Mr and Mrs M about a conversation that 
happened over 20 years ago. And there is no other evidence to help me know what 
happened, aside from the fact there was no contact with the insurance company and that it 
wasnt  a limitation of the policy that a claim couldnt be made in the first six months. 
Ultimately, I dont think Ive seen enough to say its more likely that HSBC made an error and caused Mr and Mrs S to miss out on a claim.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision saying they had no additional comments for me 
to consider. 
Mr and Mrs S responded and reiterated that they were told by the branch manager the policy 
had to be in effect for six months before they could make a claim.
My findings
Ive once again carefully considered everything available to me, including Mr and Mrs S 
additional comments. 
Having done so, I dont think theyve added anything new that I hadnt already considered as 
part of my provisional decision. While I appreciate that they recollect being told by the 
branch manager that they couldnt make a claim in the first six months, theres no other 
evidence available for me to consider. There are no contact notes, HSBC has no record of 
the conversation, there was no contact with the insurer and the policy shows there was only 
a 30-day no claim period, not a six month one. So as I previously set out in the provisional 
decision, I dont think Ive seen enough to say its more likely that HSBC made an error and 
caused Mr and Mrs S to miss out on a claim.
Because of this, I dont think HSBC mis-sold the policy and I dont think its more likely that 
they made an error and caused Mr and Mrs S to miss out on a claim.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman