DRN-1405967
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2002 Ms D took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card in-branch. 
The policy provided protection for Ms D's card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 10% of the outstanding card balance and it would do so for up to 12 months per claim. Its 
basic cost was 79 pence for every £100 Ms D owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Ms D was employed and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half pay. She said she was entitled to good 
redundancy pay, and she had some savings she couldve used to make her repayments - 
friends and family would've helped her out too. She said she was in good health at the time.
Barclays' records show the PPI ended about eight months later and the account itself closed 
in 2005.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Ms D chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Ms D disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Ms D's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Ms D was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Ms D have a choice about PPI? 
Ms D says she didn't know she'd taken out PPI.
Barclays has provided a copy of Ms D's credit card application from the time. It's not the best 
quality copy - but it's an application type we've seen before. The application had a separate section about PPI and it required a customer to tick a box to take out PPI. I think it's likely 
Ms D did tick the box on her application to take the policy out.
I'm mindful too that the PPI premiums would've appeared on Ms D's credit card statements - 
so if this wasn't something she recognised I might've expected her to query it with Barclays 
at the time.
So overall I think more likely than not Ms D chose and agreed to take out PPI - but I can 
understand why she can't now remember this.
the advice
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Ms D. This means Barclays had to check that the 
PPI was right for Ms D  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and she seems to have had a need for 
the cover.
Ms D had what might reasonably be considered generous sick pay. But the PPI would've 
paid out in addition to this and for longer than Ms D's full sick pay would've lasted. Ms D said 
she had some savings and could've relied on family and friends to help out with her 
payments. But I can see that when Barclays asked her about her savings during its 
investigation of the complaint, they've recorded that she said she couldn't remember how 
much she had. So I don't think I can place much weight on the savings Ms D might have 
had. And I don't think relying on family and friends can reasonably be described as 
guaranteed - the help might not always be so readily available when the time comes.
I'm mindful too that Ms D appears to have described her circumstances at the time as being 
a single parent running a household. And in those circumstances it would seem protecting 
her card payments would be both a sensible and suitable thing to do. But in any event and 
more broadly, I think the policy would've proved useful to Ms D had the insured risks 
become a reality - it could've helped her out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps 
uncertain time. I therefore don't think it was wrong for Barclays to have recommended PPI.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Barclays gave 
Ms D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been - for example it's not clear to me 
how the cost was disclosed to Ms D or whether the significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover were clearly drawn to her attention. But as I found above, I think she likely chose to 
take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And as I set out above it seems like 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms D off taking out the 
cover. 
conclusion
This means I don't think Ms D has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Barclays doesn't    
have to pay back to Ms D what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Ms D has said in bringing her complaint. But these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman