DRN-3609645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated them unfairly when it 
declined to offer a new mortgage with additional borrowing. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had their mortgages with Barclays for a number of years. In November 2021, 
they were moving home and wanted to port their existing mortgages with some additional 
borrowing to complete the purchase. One of the mortgages they wanted to port was still 
within a fixed rate period and if paid off early, it would incur an early repayment charge 
(ERC).
Mr and Mrs S made an application via a broker to Barclays. The affordability calculator 
showed that in principle, the additional borrowing would be granted and Mr and Mrs S didnt 
expect there to be any problems with the application. The full application was submitted and 
reviewed by Barclays. It had some questions around the planned retirement ages for Mr and 
Mrs S and discussions were also had around their salaries. After additional information was 
provided, the application was passed to Barclays underwriters for review. Following this, 
Barclays said it was not able to offer the new mortgage and it declined the application. 
Mr and Mrs S said they had no intention to leave Barclays or move from their existing 
mortgages but had no choice because of Barclays decision not to provide the additional 
borrowing. Mr and Mrs S took a new mortgage with a different lender. But as a result of not 
being able to port their existing mortgage, they had to pay the ERC costing £3059.48 as well 
as a final redemption fee of £275.
Mr and Mrs S complained about Barclays lending decision. Barclays sent a response on 18 
November to Mr and Mrs S where it said the application had been declined because it had 
been unable to confirm the information provided. It sent a later response on 24 November 
which said the application had been declined because it hadnt met Barclays lending criteria. 
Our investigator said they didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. The ERC charged was in 
line with the terms of the mortgage, set out within the mortgage offer from 2016. So it didnt 
think it had been unfair to charge this when the mortgage couldnt be ported. They said they 
couldnt share the specific information that had been shared with us on the lending decision 
as it is commercially sensitive to Barclays. But having reviewed this, they were satisfied 
Barclays had acted fairly when considering the application against its criteria.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. They felt it was unfair that they couldnt be 
provided with more information on the lending decision. They think Barclays has an 
obligation to treat customers fairly and believe this means that they should have been 
provided with the additional borrowing to enable their old mortgages to be ported. Barclays 
was in breach of this principle when it failed to allow this to happen.
Mr and Mrs S say their income met the requirements for Barclays calculator to take out the 
additional borrowing. The application was initially declined because of questions over 
Mrs Ss employment and income but her income wasnt a material contribution to the overall 
borrowing amount and Mr S should have been accepted for this on his own.
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to 
me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, 
but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs S feel theyve been treated unfairly by Barclays 
with both its lending decision and its decision not to provide the specific information on its 
reasons for this. They understand that in the absence of being able to port their previous 
mortgages with the additional borrowing, an ERC needed to be paid. However, they feel they 
only had to pay this because Barclays treated them unfairly. They say they never intended to 
move to a new provider and they were effectively forced to do this because of Barclays 
actions.
Mr and Mrs S have made a number of references to Barclays mortgage calculator and this 
showing that they met its criteria for the amount of additional borrowing they needed. It is 
important to clarify that this calculator did not provide a guarantee that the additional 
borrowing would be granted. It simply provides a guide to what might be offered. The 
outcome of the calculator did not create a formal or binding offer and while I understand the 
frustration of this indicating the borrowing would have been agreed, I dont think this can be 
taken as any indication that the subsequent full application was assessed in error.
Barclays does, as pointed out by Mr and Mrs S, have an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
It also needs to ensure that it lends responsibly. The terms and conditions for the previous 
mortgage, set out within the mortgage offer document, explain that the mortgage can be 
ported. But it also says that if moving to another property where additional borrowing is 
required, Barclays lending criteria needs to be met. And as Mr and Mrs S were increasing 
their level of borrowing by a significant amount, it is understandable why Barclays needed to 
assess that the new mortgage was affordable.
When Barclays had questions relating to Mr and Mrs Ss planned retirement ages and 
salaries these were asked and additional information was provided. This was then all 
considered by Barclays underwriters to confirm whether Mr and Mrs Ss application could be 
accepted.
As our investigator said, we cannot share information which is commercially sensitive to 
Barclays. But we can check it has acted fairly with the checks completed. Barclays has 
explained the checks that were undertaken on their application and why it didnt think it was 
able to accept it based on these. Having considered this, I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably when reaching the decision it has. Im sorry I cannot share more specifics with 
Mr and Mrs S on the reasons behind this. And a lack of detail is part of their complaint. But it 
would not be right to share this. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they know there were questions over Mrs Ss income but feel this 
shouldnt have impacted the lending decision. Mr S feels his salary alone meant that Mrs Ss 
income should have had no material bearing on the decision. He is also upset that when the 
application was made in his own name only, following the joint application being declined, 
that this was also unsuccessful. Barclays doesnt have a reference for the application made in Mr Ss own name. But the 
underwriting notes show consideration was given to whether it would allow the application to 
progress in Mr Ss name only. Again, Im unable to share the specific details of the decision 
made by Barclays, but it has explained why it wasnt satisfied, on the information provided, 
that this was an option. Barclays made a risk-based decision to decline the application and 
this applied to an application made in Mr Ss sole name too. Having looked at the information 
provided, detailing the checks and the rationale from Barclays underwriters, Im satisfied it 
hasnt acted unfairly when it reached this decision.
The ERC and redemption fee that has been charged has been applied correctly in line with 
the previous mortgages terms and because Barclays has not done anything wrong when it 
declined the new application, I dont think it needs to refund these. Nor do I think it needs to 
consider any payment for the distress Mr and Mrs S experienced as a result of the 
application being declined.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman