DRN-3849791
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr As complaint was brought by a representative who is acting on Mr As behalf. As the 
account is held in Mr As name and he made the payments to the scammer, Ill mainly refer 
to Mr A in the decision. 
In March 2021, Mr A received text messages saying a parcel from C (a legitimate company) 
had been redirected to a local post office due to an unpaid fee. Mr A ignored these text 
messages as he hadnt ordered anything from C.
 
He then received a call from a UK number. The person (who Ill refer to as D) said they 
worked for C and that Mr As account had been charged £399 in error, for another 
customers order. 
Mr A says D knew his name, that he banked with Santander and about the texts hed 
received. Unfortunately, Mr A was the victim of an impersonation scam and D didnt really 
work for C.
Mr A was convinced to download Anydesk software and asked to log into his Santander 
online banking, so D could help him request a refund. Based on what D told him, Mr A set up 
a new payee on his Santander account and made a payment of £4,985 to account details 
provided by the scammer. After the payment went through, Mr A realised his account had 
been debited not credited and raised it with D. D apologised and said it was a mistake and 
he would refund Mr A for the £4,985 as well as the £399. Mr A followed Ds instructions and 
set up another new payee and a further payment of £4,985 was made from his Santander 
account.
At this point Mr A realised something was wrong and called Santander. 
Santander raised a fraud claim for Mr A and was able to recover £7.81 from the beneficiary 
bank. Santander considered Mr As claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code) and agreed to share liability with Mr A for his loss  refunding him £4,985. They 
declined to refund Mr A the other 50%, saying he didnt do enough checks to verify the 
legitimacy of D before making the payments.
Mr A wasnt happy with Santanders decision, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator agreed that 
Santander hadnt met their obligations under the CRM Code, so should be liable for 50% of 
Mr As loss. However, they felt Mr A should share liability in the loss 50/50 as he didnt do 
sufficient checks to make sure D was legitimate. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He gave the following reasons:
He was under extreme financial and emotional pressure to make these payments.
D knew details about who he banked with and the text messages hed received, 
which convinced Mr A he was talking to someone who worked for C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Santander say Mr A made the payment without having 
a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting 
to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate.
Santander have already accepted that they havent met the standards set for them under the 
CRM Code and as a result have refunded 50% of Mr As loss. So, Ive considered whether 
Santander can fairly apply an exception to reimbursement, which would mean theyre not 
liable for the remaining 50% of Mr As loss.
Having carefully considered everything that Mr A has told us, Im satisfied that Santander 
can rely on the exception to reimbursement. I say this because Im not persuaded that Mr A 
had a reasonable basis for believing D was legitimate. Ill explain why:
Mr A says that D called from a UK phone number, but he didnt check if it was a 
genuine phone number for C. I would expect Mr A to have checked Cs website or do 
an online search to see if the phone number was linked to C.
Mr A was told hed been charged for someone elses purchase in error, but he didnt 
check his bank account to see if there was a charge or check his account with C to 
see if there was a purchase recorded for the £399. Checking either of these wouldve 
shown that the information D gave him wasnt correct.
Its unclear why Mr A would need to download Anydesk software, set up a new 
payee, or make a payment out of his account if he was due a refund. Mr A says he 
has been a customer of C for a number of years, and his representative said hes 
previously asked C for a refund which was done through Cs website. I wouldve 
expected Mr A to questions about what he was being asked to do in these 
circumstances.
When Mr A set up the first payment, he received a Confirmation of Payee  no 
match. This means that the account name he used on the payment didnt match the 
name on the account he was attempting to pay. This shouldve been concerning and 
I cant see that Mr A asked any questions about this. Its also worth noting that for the 
second payment Mr A again received a Confirmation of Payee  no match. 
Additionally, one of the names that Mr A set up as a new payee was a personal 
name. D said that it was the name of his manager at C. But Mr A shouldve 
questioned why he was setting up a new payee in a personal name for a large 
organisation like C.Theres been inconsistent information about the pressure Mr A says he was under at 
the time he made the payments. In the initial letter of complaint, his representative 
said D was incredibly professional and patient and that Mr A wasnt rushed by the 
scammer  the representative said this helped confirm the legitimacy of the caller for 
Mr A. But this conflicts with what the representative has told us in response to the 
investigators view about Mr A being under extreme financial and emotional pressure. 
Because of this, Im not convinced that Mr A was unable to take time to carry out 
some basic checks before setting up and making two payments. 
Having considered all of these points as a whole, and not just on an individual basis, I think 
there were enough warning flags that Mr A shouldve had doubts about the legitimacy of D 
and shouldve carried out some checks as a result. On that basis, Im satisfied that 
Santander can rely on an exception to reimbursement and cant fairly ask them to refund   
Mr A any further funds.
Santander contacted the receiving banks within an hour of Mr A reporting the scam, but they 
were only able to recover £7.81 which has been returned to Mr A. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that Santander took appropriate steps to try and recover Mr As money.
I realise that Mr A has lost a lot of money as the result of a cruel scam. But, having carefully 
considered everything that hes told us, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Santander to 
refund him any further money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman