DRN-4272924
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Mrs N received a call from someone claiming to be from Amazon, who said her Amazon 
account had been hacked. Unfortunately, the caller was actually a scammer.
As part of the scam, Mrs N was persuaded to open a Revolut account. She transferred funds 
in from another bank account she held. Then she sent the funds on to an individual who the 
scammer said was an Amazon finance manager. 
Once Mrs N realised she had been scammed, she reported this to Revolut. She complained 
it was holding her liable for the payments. Revolut said it wasnt at fault as it had warned her 
about the scam risk and she had authorised the payments.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs N referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He thought Revolut had issued proportionate warnings based on the 
risk it had identified, so wasnt at fault for processing Mrs Ns authorised payment requests. 
Nor did he think it missed a chance to recoup her loss, aside from £0.91 which it did manage 
to recall. 
Mrs N has appealed the investigators outcome, so the case has been passed to me. She 
doesnt think Revolut has done enough to protect her, and queries why it couldnt recall 
(more of) her funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, consumers are generally liable for 
payments they authorise. While Mrs N was clearly tricked, its agreed that she authorised the 
payments. So the starting position is that she is liable for them.
That said, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to take additional steps before processing a payment due to 
identifying a fraud risk. Ive considered whether it did identify (or should have identified) such 
a risk here, and, if so, whether it responded proportionately.
Generally, an indication of fraud might include when a payment is made that is significantly 
out of keeping with the normal use of the account. In this case, Mrs N had only just set up 
the account. So Revolut had no prior knowledge of how she normally transacted.
That said, Mrs N did send a reasonably substantial amount, via three payments, shortly after 
opening the account. So Ive looked at what action Revolut took to help protect Mrs N from 
the risk of fraud.
When Mrs N added the payee to her account, Revolut displayed a general warning about 
fraud. And when Mrs N made the first payment to that payee, Revolut checked what the 
payment was for  and displayed a tailored warning based on the types of scams most 
associated with that payment reason.
Neither side has been able to confirm/recall what payment reason was given. But on a 
connected case, Mrs N said the scammer had guided her on what to select. So its unlikely 
she would have put down anything which looked particularly suspicious. And regardless, she 
was still shown a warning relevant to the payment reason she gave; Revolut wouldnt have 
known if this was misleading. 
Overall, Revolut did identify a level of risk associated with the payment journey. It showed 
Mrs N a general warning about fraud, as well as a warning tailored to the payment reason 
given. I consider that proportionate. As Mrs N decided to proceed after having seen those 
warnings, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Revolut to enact her authorised payment 
instructions. I dont think it had cause to complete further checks. 
Mrs N reported the scam to Revolut the day after she made the payments. While I 
appreciate her disappointment that it couldnt recall the vast majority of the funds, Ive seen 
records confirming the payments were moved on before she contacted Revolut about the 
scam. So Im not persuaded any delays (as alleged by Mrs N) in dealing with her scam 
report affected Revoluts ability to recover her loss.
I appreciate Mrs Ns frustrations that Revolut couldnt do more. But it cant recall funds that 
have been moved on from the recipient account. Unfortunately, its common for scammers to 
quickly move funds through multiple accounts, to minimise the risk of them being recalled. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs N has lost out to a cruel scam, Im not persuaded failings by 
Revolut contributed to that loss. I therefore dont consider it fair to hold it liable for the 
payments Mrs N made, even though she was tricked into making them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman