DRN-4076052
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) failed to process a drawdown request 
before the end of the tax year. Mrs B says she lost the benefit of her personal tax allowance 
that year as a result and will now face additional tax liabilities to drawdown the funds. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs B met with Tenet to request a drawdown of £12,000 from her pension. 
She specifically wanted the funds to be paid before the end of the tax year to benefit from 
her otherwise unused personal tax allowance. 
Tenet completed a fact find with Mrs B before producing a suitability report for the drawdown 
request. The suitability report was reviewed by Tenets compliance department and 
approved on 25 March 2022. 
Tenet attempted to key the instructions with the pension provider on 25 March 2022 to sell 
down some of Mrs Bs investments. But they needed to verify Mrs Bs bank details. The 
instructions were keyed in again on 28 March 2022.
The trades were settled on 4 April 2022 and Tenet requested the withdrawal of funds the 
same day. However, Tenet had missed the pension providers published deadline of 29 
March 2022 for drawdown requests to be submitted to enable them to be processed before 
the end of the tax year. 
Tenet called the pension provider three times on 4 April 2022. Twice they were told the 
request had been made too late for the tax year. But on the third occasion the pension 
provider said as the request was made before 5 April 2022, it would fall within that tax year. 
Mrs B received the funds around 12 April 2022 which meant the income payment fell into the 
22/23 tax year. Mrs B complained to Tenet. 
In response Tenet acknowledged Mrs B wanted an income withdrawal in January 2022 but 
they said it took around a month for their adviser to submit the advice and documentation. 
And it took a further two weeks to complete the approval process. They upheld Mrs Bs 
complaint on the basis there was a delay in processing her request for drawdown. 
However, Tenet said both they and Mrs B had asked the pension provider to complete an 
early years adjustment which theyd declined to do. So, Tenet said the pension provider 
were also partly to blame. Tenet offered Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs B was unhappy with Tenets response and so brought her complaint to our Service. Our 
investigator didnt think Tenet had done enough to put things right. She said Tenet should 
pay Mrs B the tax she would have been liable for had she taken a further £12,000 within the 
current tax year. 
Tenet disagreed as they said Mrs B hadnt taken a further income payment, and they werent 
satisfied she intended to do so. As no agreement could be reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to be agreed that Tenet could and should have processed Mrs Bs income request 
before the end of the tax year. And it was tenets delays in processing their advice that led to 
Mrs Bs request not meeting the deadline. 
I dont intend to repeat whats already been said here on the matter, but Im satisfied that 
Mrs B made a clear request for an income withdrawal in early 2022 which gave Tenet 
enough time to meet the required deadline. And it was Tenets delays that meant Mrs Bs 
request wasnt made to the pension provider in time to meet the end of tax-year deadline. 
My decision will therefore focus on whether or not Tenet have done enough to put things 
right. And I dont think they have. Ill explain why. 
Tenets fact-find and Mrs Bs testimony demonstrates that Mrs B was reliant on her pension 
for her day to day living expenses at that time. She had some savings in an ISA which were 
earmarked as an emergency fund, and which were to be used to potentially fund a new 
business.
Tenet initially said theres no evidence that Mrs B intended to take a further lump sum in the 
22/23 tax year, and shed not followed their advice to start taking a regular monthly income. 
However, Tenet also accept that Mrs B sent them an email in May 2022 in which she 
highlighted that she now couldnt take another payment that year due to the likely tax 
implications. And Tenet said it was reasonable to suggest Mrs B might have planned to 
make a further withdrawal in 22/23. 
Tenets suitability report also supports that Mrs B required around £12,000 a year from the 
pension at that time. With Tenet recommending a regular income of £1,000 a month. 
Mrs B sent us evidence of her taking regular withdrawals from her ISA which is consistent 
with her testimony that shes had to use those funds rather than taking another withdrawal 
from her pension to fund her living expenses.
Considering the full circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that, on balance, Mrs B had 
planned to take further income in the 22/23 tax year to fund her living expenses. And it was 
due to Tenets error that she decided against taking the income in order to prevent a tax 
charge that she otherwise wouldnt have had to pay. 
Tenets error caused Mrs B to miss out on the use of her annual allowance from the 21/22 
tax year. And as a result, in order to release the £12,000 from her pension now, shes likely 
to pay basic tax on that sum.
Therefore, a fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for Tenet to pay the income tax 
Mrs B is likely to face as a result of their error. 
Ive considered Tenets argument that some of the blame should be apportioned towards the 
pension provider. However, I disagree. It was Tenets delay that led to Mrs Bs income 
request not being dealt with within the pension providers deadline. The provider gave Tenet 
incorrect information during one of the phone calls on 4 April 2022. But the deadline had 
already been missed by that point. And while Tenet say the pension provider could have contacted HMRC, Im looking at Tenets actions in this complaint. And its their actions that 
directly led to Mrs Bs loss of opportunity. Its possible there are reasons why the pension 
provider hasnt contacted HMRC but that isnt something Im investigating in this complaint. 
Ive also considered that Mrs B had to use funds from her ISA in lieu of an additional 
payment from her pension. Had that not happened her ISA would otherwise have seen 
growth from interest. However, I think its likely the funds that remained in her pension (due 
to the fact that Mrs B didnt take another payment) would have seen investment returns over 
the same period, so I wont make any additional award for loss of investment growth in 
relation to that. 
Tenet offered Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset their actions caused. I appreciate Mrs B 
feels this sum should increase, especially considering the length of time this complaint has 
been ongoing; the fact that she still hasnt accessed her funds; and the length of time it took 
Tenet to respond to her complaint. However, I havent seen any evidence Tenet refused to 
help Mrs B make a further withdrawal and I dont think their actions directly prevented her 
from doing so. Although I can appreciate her reasons for not requesting a further withdrawal 
while the complaint was ongoing. In all the circumstances of this case Im satisfied £250 
fairly reflects the upset and inconvenience Tenet caused and the effort Mrs B needed to go 
to in trying to resolve the issue.
Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Tenet to put Mrs B, as far as possible, in 
the position she would now be in but for their delays.
I consider that Mrs B would likely have made a £12,000 income withdrawal in both the 21/22 
and 22/23 tax years. Tenet should therefore undertake a redress calculation to work out the 
tax Mrs B would have paid on a further £12,000 withdrawal in the 22/23 tax year. 
Tenet should assume for the calculation that Mrs B would be a basic rate taxpayer (20%). 
Tenet should also pay Mrs B £250 compensation to recognise the inconvenience and upset 
their delay caused by missing the deadline for withdrawals in the 21/22 tax year. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. TenetConnect Limited must now put things right 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman