DRN-3938715
The complaint
Mr U complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) wont allow him to take a 
regular monthly income from his Group Personal Pension Plan. He says he is limited to six 
withdrawals a year and he needs to request these in writing each time. Mr U finds this 
frustrating, and he thinks it isnt customer friendly. He thinks the pension isnt fit for purpose 
in respect of Pension Freedoms.  
What happened
Mr U complained in 2022 to Wesleyan saying that he was unhappy that he had to write in to 
take a cash withdrawal from his pension. He thinks this process should be automated and 
then he could receive an income each month. He cant do this with the policy he has. Added 
to this, Wesleyan do have another pension product that he could transfer into that does offer 
this facility, but the charges are higher and Mr U doesnt want to move to this plan. 
Wesleyan didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. It said that the terms and conditions of the 
personal pension he has only allow for six occasional withdrawals of cash a year. And it 
cant automate these. And given that each of these withdrawals would be a partial 
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum, it needs to ensure the governance around them is 
correct each time. This includes producing illustrations to show the effect on the remaining 
fund and so on. 
Mr U referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said it wouldnt be reasonable for Wesleyan to provide the withdrawals in the way that Mr U 
wants as the product terms dont allow it, and Wesleyans systems arent set up to make 
regular automatic withdrawals for this product. 
Mr U disagreed, and he wanted to emphasise that Wesleyan has a newer personal pension 
product that does offer the regular withdrawal facility that he wants. But the charges on this 
are significantly higher, he doesnt feel these charges are justified bearing in mind he is an 
ex-staff member. He thinks Wesleyan shouldnt have allowed staff members to contribute to 
a group personal pension that isnt compatible with Pension Freedoms. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The Pension Freedoms legislation of 2015 can be referred to as enabling legislation. This 
means that personal pension providers were able to offer the benefits that Pension 
Freedoms allowed but they didnt have to. In practice most providers offer some of the new 
Pension Freedoms on older polices, or the opportunity to transfer. But, again, this is not 
something they must do. 
The plan that Mr U has complained about is a (group) personal pension that was started 
before Pensions Freedoms were introduced in 2015. 
In respect of withdrawals the literature for it says that you can withdraw some or all of your 
pension pot as cash when you need it. The minimum amount you can withdraw is £500 and 
you can take up to six withdrawals a year The literature also says You will need to write to 
us and tell us how you want to take the benefits.
And Wesleyan has said that its systems arent able to process an automatic withdrawal for 
this type of pension. This is partly due to the way the pension was set up. 
Given all of the above, I dont think Wesleyan is acting incorrectly or unreasonably when it 
says that Mr U cant have an automatic regular withdrawal from this pension. This is 
because the terms of the contract he has dont allow this and Wesleyan is entitled to abide 
by these. I dont think the Pension Freedoms legislation changes this. 
Added to this, the restriction on the withdrawals is explained in the pension literature (as Ive 
outlined above). And I understand that Mr U was employed by Wesleyan and was familiar 
with this pension as part of his employment. So, I dont think that Mr U was misled by 
Wesleyan over this issue. 
Mr U has raised a broader concern in respect of Pension Freedoms and the charges he 
pays. And he has compared this with other policies that Wesleyan has. He essentially thinks 
that Wesleyan shouldnt have allowed him to contribute to a policy that doesnt offer all the 
Pension Freedoms. 
Mr U has contributed this policy on the basis that it is a lower cost personal pension that 
does have some restrictions on how benefits are taken. But I dont think this makes the 
pension unfit for purpose. It still a reasonable product to save for retirement and offers 
many of the benefits that are allowed under Pension Freedoms. In addition to having lower 
charges. 
Mr U could move to another product that doesnt have these restrictions, with Wesleyan or 
with another provider, but this will likely be more expensive. So, he can use all the Pension 
Freedoms benefits, but he will have to alter his pension plans to do this. And this is not an 
uncommon scenario. 
The fact that Mr U, perhaps understandably, doesnt want to do this doesnt mean that the 
policy he has is wrong. Or that Wesleyan has acted incorrectly. Taking everything into 
consideration I dont think that Wesleyan has done anything wrong here. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman