The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The PPI was sold to Mr M 
over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale. But that isnt particularly surprising 
given how long ago it took place. Businesses arent required to keep this type of record over 
this period of time. However, from what we know more generally about how PPI sales were 
made by Capital One on such calls, I think its more likely than not that it made it clear to 
Mr M that the PPI was optional and that he agreed to take it. And I havent seen enough 
evidence for me to think that, on this particular occasion, the telephone representative Mr M 
spoke to didnt follow this normal sales process. The PPI charges would also have been 
separately shown on Mr Ms credit card statements. And I think he would have queried with 
Capital One why he was being charged for PPI if he hadnt agreed to take it.
So, on the limited information available to me, I think its most likely that Mr M would have 
known at the time that he had a choice about buying the policy and actively decided to do 
so. But the sale happened a long time ago, so I can understand why he may not recall this.
I dont think Capital One recommended the policy to Mr M, so it didnt need to make sure 
that it was suitable for him. But it did still need to give Mr M enough information for him to 
decide if he wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information Capital One gave Mr M 
could have been better than it was. But from what I know about his circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have changed his mind about taking it. I say this 
because:
DRN-1320376Mr M appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions and limitations.
Mr M says he could have relied on his family and friends to give him financial support
if he wasnt able to work. But this policy would have paid in addition to this and for up
to twelve months if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness or
unemployment. I think the policy would have given him more security than having to
rely on his family and friends for support. So I still think Mr M would have thought the
policy gave him useful benefits which were worth paying for.
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr M. And as the
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
So I dont think Mr M has lost out by anything Capital One may have done wrong when it 
sold him this PPI policy.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But Capital One does have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Capital One didnt
tell Mr M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15July2020.
Simon FurseOmbudsman