DRN-4432541
The complaint
Mrs C has complained Yorkshire Building Society allowed her to close her savings account 
with them and dispose of all her money whilst being the victim of familial abuse. 
What happened
Mrs C is over 90 years old. One of her three daughters has been given power of attorney for 
financial matters by Mrs C. This daughter is Mrs K who represents her mother in this 
complaint..
Mrs C, accompanied by Mrs K, opened a savings account with Yorkshire on 30 November 
2020. She was waiting to receive the proceeds from a house sale. Shed owned this property 
jointly with her husband whod shed left after an abusive relationship.
In March 2021 following distressing events, Mrs K visited the Yorkshire branch. She told 
them her mother had been taken by one of her sisters, Mrs L, who was trying to get the 
proceeds of the house sale for herself. She gave Yorkshire a crime reference number and 
underlined the seriousness of the situation.
Following that visit by Mrs K, Mrs C  along with Mrs L  tried three times to get Yorkshire to 
close Mrs Cs account and make the funds available to them. 
Initially on 25 March, Yorkshire were concerned that Mrs L continually talked over Mrs C 
which meant they were unable to get at the veracity of Mrs Cs wishes.  To minimise any 
financial harm, Yorkshire confirmed they would need evidence the funds were going to an 
account in Mrs Cs name.
A further visit to a Yorkshire branch took place four days later. Yorkshire remained 
concerned and was alert to suggestions that the money should be going to an account held 
jointly with Mr C. Previous evidence from Mrs K had indicated Mrs C was a victim of abuse 
so this caused concern. Yorkshire was also concerned about contradictory stories they were 
given about where Mrs C was living. Again they confirmed theyd need to be sure the funds 
were going to an account in Mrs Cs name.
On the day the account was closed, the branch visit was preceded by a phone call to check 
whether withdrawal would be possible. Yorkshire noted Mrs C was being fed responses by 
Mrs L so confirmed that the withdrawal and closure had to be completed in branch. In branch 
Yorkshire issued a cheque in Mrs Cs sole name and closed her savings account.
Mrs C, along with Mrs L, then deposited a cheque for £100,770.17 with another financial 
institution (who Ill call H).
By the time Mrs K complained to Yorkshire about the account closure, Mrs Cs savings 
account with H had been emptied.
Yorkshire didnt believe theyd done anything wrong as they believed theyd taken steps to 
protect Mrs C from financial harm. They confirmed theyd spoken to Mrs C alone and had 
been satisfied she was making her own financial decisions and was not being coerced.
Mrs K brought her mothers complaint to the ombudsman service. She provided evidence to 
show Mrs Cs health and wellbeing around this time.
Our investigator considered the evidence. She initially believed that Yorkshire should have 
done more to protect Mrs C and asked them to repay £100,770.17 along with interest that 
her money would have been paid if theyd remained in her Yorkshire account.
Yorkshire felt later medical issues were being taken into account when they couldnt have 
known about these at the time. They didnt feel they could have done more. Our investigator 
reconsidered her outcome and told Mrs K she wasnt going to ask Yorkshire to refund the 
money.
Mrs Ks asked an ombudsman to consider Mrs Cs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator came to on 1 August 
2023. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Cs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Yorkshire provided as well as 
what Mrs K has told us. 
Firstly I should say I appreciate how upsetting this must be for Mrs C and her family. The 
testimony given to us by Mrs K about the abuse and neglect her mother has suffered is 
distressing. I dont dispute her story that some form of financial abuse has more than likely 
taken place too.
Unfortunately that doesnt mean I can hold Yorkshire responsible for this. I say this because:
At least twice, Yorkshire refused to provide funds to Mrs C or close her account. 
They were aware throughout the branch visits flags had been raised about Mrs C 
being manipulated and coerced.
Theres clear evidence that the branch took steps to discuss what they should do 
with their internal fraud team. A decision was made that to protect Mrs C from 
financial harm, her money could only be paid into an account in her name and any 
payment must be in her name.In the end, a financial institution is expected to follow its customers instructions. After 
taking steps that I believe were adequate at the time, Yorkshire couldnt put off for 
forever closing Mrs Cs account and not allowing her to have her money.
Notes from the time Yorkshire issued a cheque to Mrs C suggests Mrs C didnt 
seem anxious in presence of these 2. Mrs C was in branch with Mrs L and her 
partner. 
Yorkshires call notes between the branch and the internal fraud team dont provide a 
definitive view about how or whether they interviewed Mrs C alone. But I think they 
must have. However I dont anticipate that was easy as Mrs C had limited hearing 
and needed concepts explained to her carefully.
Yorkshire had limited other steps to take once they were satisfied Mrs C had made 
plans to open another savings account. I believe they were aware this was due to 
happen the following day after her visit to the branch on 6 April.
I believe Yorkshire were told continual visits to branch were costing Mrs C money, so 
I accept they were put under pressure to close the account.
I have considered whether Yorkshire could have contacted Mrs K. It was her that first 
brought potential abuse to their attention on 24 March. However and unfortunately I 
think it would have been extremely difficult for Yorkshire to be put in a position to 
judge which sister (Mrs K or Mrs L) was telling the truth and which sister may have 
been taking advantage of Mrs C. 
Ive similarly considered whether Yorkshire should have alerted the police. But their 
internal advice about invoking the Banking Protocol doesnt seem to apply here. And 
I suspect that the police would have seen an elderly and frail lady who was telling 
them she wanted to close her account. I note that the police has decided not to 
proceed with any criminal action despite Mrs K bringing her concerns about Mrs Cs 
treatment to them.
There is no dispute that Yorkshire  by providing a cheque in Mrs Cs name  
ensured that an account had to be opened in Mrs Cs name. At the time this 
happened, all the money remained in Mrs Cs possession.
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Cs situation, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask Yorkshire to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Yorkshire 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman