DRN-3714217
The complaint
Mr Y complains that a car acquired with finance from Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr Y was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with VF.
Within a short time of getting the car, Mr Y experienced issues with the engine misfiring and 
the car pulling. He returned the car to the supplying dealer several times, but they were 
unable to find any faults. The supplying dealer adjusted the tracking and said the car was 
driving straight.
Mr Y continued to experience issues and raised a complaint with VF. VF said that based on 
the information provided by the supplying dealer, it wasnt able to uphold the complaint. VF 
advised Mr Y to obtain an independent report to show that there was a fault.
Mr Y remained unhappy an brought his complaint to this service. He obtained a report from 
an independent garage which stated that the spark plug had oil in it which caused the car to 
misfire.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was persuaded by the independent garages report 
that there was a fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality. The investigator 
said that VF should arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr Y and that it should 
pay compensation.
Mr Y didnt agree. He said the compensation wasnt enough to reflect the number of times 
hed had to take the car back to the supplying dealer.
VF didnt agree either. It said that no fault had been found with the car and that changing a 
spark plug was part of general maintenance of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to think about it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr Y acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt, then VF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law says that goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all other relevant circumstances. Other relevant 
circumagtcens would include the age and mileage of the car at the time it was supplied to Mr 
Y. The car was around 5 years old and had covered 53,481 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption 
that it was present at the point of supply, and VF is responsible for the quality of the car 
unless it can prove otherwise.
Im persuaded that the fault with Mr Ys car was present at the point of supply. I say this 
because Mr Y obtained an independent report which diagnosed oil in one of the spark plugs, 
which was likely causing the car to misfire. The report says the spark plug needs to be 
replaced but says there is also a possibility that the rocker cover gasket has failed causing 
oil to leak into the spark plug.
I understand that the supplying dealer looked at the car several times and was unable to find 
a fault. I also understand the point which VF makes about spark plugs being serviceable 
items. However, Im persuaded by Mr Ys testimony that the engine repeatedly misfired, as 
well as by the independent report. Im persuaded that there was a fault.
Ive also considered durability, which is an aspect of satisfactory quality. Spark plugs can be 
expected to last between 80,000  100,000 miles before requiring replacement. In this case, 
the mileage covered by Mr Ys car was significantly less than this. I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect to replace a spark plug on a car of this mileage. Taking everything into 
consideration, I dont think the car was sufficiently durable, which means it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
The legislation allows VF one opportunity to repair the car. My understanding is that no 
repairs have been attempted, so I think VF should contact Mr Y and arrange for repairs to be 
completed.
Mr Y has recently told this service about some other issues with the car. These havent been 
investigated by VF yet, so Im unable to look at these as part of this complaint. The repairs 
which Im asking VF to arrange are to the speak plug and /or rocker cover gasket.
Putting things right
VF should arrange for repairs to be carried out to the spark plug and/or rocker cover gasket 
at no cost to Mr Y.
Mr Y has been inconvenienced by the issue with the car. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership several times and has had to arrange an inspection at another garage.  VF 
should pay Mr Y compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Vauxhall Finance plc must:
Arrange for repairs to be carried out to the spark plug/ rocker cover gasket at no cost to Mr Y
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ys credit file in relation to the agreementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman