DRN-1778404
The complaint
Mr C complained because Nationwide Building Society didnt credit his account with £1,000 
cash which he paid into his account.
What happened
On 21 December 2019, Mr C went to a Nationwide branch to pay in £1,000 cash. He arrived 
about 12.10 pm and went into the branch, but an employee told him the branch was closed 
and the door just hadnt been closed yet. So Mr C went to the cash machine outside to pay 
in his cash.
Mr C put in his card, and requested a deposit. He keyed in £1,000 and the machine provided 
an envelope. Mr C put his cash in the envelope, and put the envelope in the machines slot. 
The envelope was taken into the machine.
The screen then asked Mr C if he required any other service, but he hadnt had a receipt. He 
had to select no to the machine question and received his card back. He went to the 
branch door to see if he could ask the person inside, but the door was locked and he 
couldnt get in.
Mr C sent an online message, and he also rang to complain on 23 December. On 6 January 
2020, Nationwide told Mr C that his complaint was still being investigated because they had 
to call an engineer to the machine.
On 15 January, Nationwide replied to Mr Cs complaint. It said the branch manager had 
checked the machine and couldnt find any jammed funds. An engineer was called and 
couldnt find any money or any fault with the machine. 
Nationwides computer systems showed that after Mr Cs credit, the transaction had been 
reversed, which it said meant the envelope would have been dispensed back out of the 
machine. It said that it had looked at the CCTV, but the angle didnt show a clear picture. It 
did however show that someone else went up to the machine after Mr C. So the money 
might have been stolen when it was paid out again, but as the money wasnt in the machine, 
Nationwide couldnt credit Mr Cs account.
Nationwide paid Mr C £50 compensation for the delay in answering his complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator looked at what had happened. The computer records showed that Mr C had 
deposited the envelope at 12.11pm, but that the transaction had been cancelled at 12.12pm. 
At 12.15pm the machine printed out a statement, which Mr C sent us with his complaint. This 
showed that the cash hadnt been credited.
The investigator also asked Nationwide for the CCTV  but it hadnt kept it even though Mr C 
had disputed the transaction, which the investigator said was disappointing. The branch 
manager had said it had showed someone else going up to the machine after Mr C. The investigator said that it wasnt clear why the deposit was cancelled. Although Mr C could 
have done that himself, it was also possible that it had happened because of a problem with 
the machine. But in any event, Mr C was still at the machine at 12.15, after the transaction 
had been cancelled and the envelope returned at 12.12.
The investigator concluded that the machine returned Mr Cs deposit, while he was still at 
the machine. It was possible it had been stolen after that, but he didnt consider it would be 
fair to say that Nationwide should refund Mr C for that.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed lost £1,000 after paying it into a cashpoint. He said it was 
Nationwides fault because theyd accepted his money, and returned his card, and the deal 
was done. Hed then walked away and the next person went in with their card. If the money 
came out afterwards, that was Nationwides fault. He said that Nationwide had stolen his 
money. Mr C said the investigators finding was wrong, but Mr C had been there and done 
the transaction.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its impossible for me to know for certain what happened. I wasnt there, and Nationwide 
didnt keep the CCTV. Its most disappointing that Nationwide didnt keep the CCTV, 
especially when they knew that Mr C was disputing the transaction and his complaint was 
unresolved. But CCTV doesnt always prove definitively what happened  it has to be 
positioned in exactly the right place, for example.
I also note that it was some time before Nationwide requested an engineer to the ATM. The 
transaction was on 21 December and I can see that Nationwide didnt call an engineer until 2 
January. This too is unhelpful, because despite the bank holidays, there would have been a 
lot of transactions at the machine in that time. Getting the engineer earlier would have 
provided useful evidence. But it doesnt prove that the machine was working property on 21 
December when it wasnt inspected by an engineer until some two weeks later. 
Without this, I have to make my decision on the basis of the evidence I do have. This is 
essentially the computer record of the transactions. 
The computer record doesnt show why the transaction was cancelled. In theory Mr C could 
have cancelled the transaction, though I accept hes said he didnt. More likely, perhaps, the 
machine could have cancelled it for some unknown technical reason. But its clear that both 
sides agree the transaction was cancelled. And what matters is what happened to the 
money. 
The computer record does however help with one thing, and thats the timing of what 
happened. When Mr C first got in touch with us, he said he did the balance check first, and 
then the deposit. But in fact the records show that Mr C put in the envelope at 12.11, it was 
cancelled at 12.12, and the machine produced the balance slip which Mr C sent us at 12.15. 
Mr C has agreed that he probably did the deposit first.
What these timings show is that Mr C was still standing at the machine when the transaction 
was cancelled and envelope returned, at 12.12. He must have been, because he then did a 
balance check three minutes later.
I realise that Mr C feels very strongly about what happened. I consider its quite possible that 
his money was later stolen from him in the queue  at that time of year, there would have been a lot of people about and it would have been busy. And Im sorry that Mr C may have 
lost a large sum of money. But as the transaction timings show that Mr C was still at the 
machine when the envelope was returned to him, I cant say that there was a fault with the 
machine for which Nationwide is liable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman