DRN-4035271
The complaint
Miss D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker about her at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Miss D says that she has never opened an account with Monzo Bank. And that someone did 
so by using her personal information. The CIFAS marker is affecting her ability to open an 
account elsewhere and this is causing her financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Monzo Bank had shown 
that the account was opened using Miss Ds correct personal details including her email 
address. And it provided a copy of video evidence used to verify Miss D when the account 
was opened. The marker reflected the use of the account. Monzo Bank had grounds to 
record this.
Miss D didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She stressed the impact that 
the CIFAS marker was having on her and her family. Another account at a different financial 
business had been closed and she was unable to open an account elsewhere. She had 
shown that she is in financial difficulty and had outstanding bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Miss Ds position is that she didnt open the account and so isnt responsible for what 
happened and wouldnt be able to explain this. 
Ive looked closely at the way in which Monzo Bank considered an application in her name. 
And the information it used to verify her details including the video. Having done so I 
consider that it is most likely that Miss D made the application and opened the account. 
Having made that finding I consider she was responsible for what happened on the account 
and the way it was used. And based on that Monzo Bank had grounds to add the marker. It 
also decided to close her account in line with its terms and conditions.
I appreciate what Miss D says about the impact of the marker for her and her difficulty in 
accessing an account elsewhere. But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require 
Monzo Bank to take any further action. I know how disappointed Miss D will be at my 
assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman