DRN-4046009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) allowed a cheque to 
be paid from their joint account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs P decided to put money into an unregulated, property 
development investment based overseas. Mr P wrote a cheque for £80,000 and gave it 
to their financial adviser to pass on to the investment companys representative. Some 
years later the investment company went into liquidation and Mr and Mrs P believe it 
might actually have been a Ponzi scheme. Theyve been trying to get their money back 
via various routes ever since. 
Mr and Mrs P believed their investment would have additional protection by virtue of 
being sent initially to a solicitors client account. But they say the solicitor didnt receive 
the money. They say the cheque shouldnt have been collected because the account into 
which it was paid was held under a different name to the payee written on the cheque
Halifax refused to refund the money because, it says, the cheque was properly 
processed. And our investigator agreed. Mr and Mrs P remain unhappy, so the complaint 
has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, I 
agree with the investigator that Halifax cant fairly be held liable for their losses. Ill explain 
why.
The jurisdiction under which we operate means I can only consider the actions of Mr and 
Mrs Ps bank  Halifax  as far as the payment of this cheque is concerned. I can do this 
because they are Halifaxs customers. Theyre not customers of the receiving bank  the 
bank that held the account into which the cheque was paid  in relation to these matters. Nor 
do any of the other relationships that are stipulated under our rules exist that might allow us 
to consider a complaint against the receiving bank. But we have obtained some evidence 
from the receiving bank, and the owner of the receiving account, which Ive taken into 
account when making this decision.
Despite what Mr and Mrs P have said, the evidence Ive seen from the financial businesses 
suggests the money did end up with the payee that was stated on the cheque. The receiving 
account appears to have been the client account of an authorised electronic money 
institution with a designation that matched the payee. I also note Mr and Mrs P dont dispute 
having completed a document which confirmed their investment should be paid to the same 
account into which their cheque was actually paid. 
But, in any event, it would have been for the receiving bank to cross-reference the account 
name and cheque payee before presenting the cheque for payment to Halifax. Im satisfied 
Halifax would, reasonably, have thought this had been done and neednt have carried out 
the additional checks Mr and Mrs P have suggested, which includes calling them upon 
receipt of the cheque and before paying it. But, even if the bank had intervened, I dont think 
that would have prevented the investment being made. I say that because, as far as I can 
see, there would have been no reason for Halifax or Mr and Mrs P to have suspected that 
the investment was anything but genuine back in 2016. 
Overall, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably in paying the cheque and sending Mr and 
Mrs Ps money to the receiving bank. So I cant fairly instruct it to refund that money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman