DRN-3979817
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled their 
buildings insurance claim.
Fairmead are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. The majority of this complaint 
concerns the actions of their appointed agents. As Fairmead accept they are accountable for 
the actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Fairmead should be interpreted 
as also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr M, Ms M and Fairmead. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr M and Ms M had a home insurance policy with Fairmead. In February 2022 they made a 
claim against their policy following a car hitting their house. Fairmead accepted the claim 
and a schedule of works which were expected to last for around three weeks was agreed. 
The works were due to commence in May 2022. Mr M and Ms M needed to move into 
alternative accommodation.
Mr M and Ms M became unhappy with the progress of the works, the time taken and the 
overall communication from Fairmead and their agents. Fairmead accepted that things didnt 
happen as they should have whilst they handled this claim and offered £750 in 
compensation. Mr M and Ms M remained unhappy and referred their complaint to our 
Service for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend that Fairmead needed to do anything further.
As Mr M and Ms M didnt accept the Investigators recommendations, the complaint was 
then referred to me for a decision. I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, 
intended findings outlining why I was increasing the compensation from £750 to £1200 and 
invited all parties to refer to our externally published guidelines on distress and 
inconvenience: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-
for-distress-or-inconvenience 
As the deadline for responses has now passed, Ive now considered the complaint for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead acknowledged my provisional decision but made no further comments. Mr M and 
Ms M didnt respond by the deadline set. As no material new evidence that would affect the 
outcome of this complaint has been presented, my earlier findings in my intended, 
provisional findings still stand. Ive included the findings below.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Its not in dispute that things didnt happen as they should have and this has had an impact 
on Mr M and Ms M. I say this because in their final response letter, Fairmead said:
.its clear that youve experienced a lack of communication and delays that should 
have been avoided due to poor project management. This left you in alternative 
accommodation longer than what should have been necessary, with the additional 
upset of you having to move a number of times. Therefore as discussed, to say sorry 
for this and for any trouble, upset or inconvenience caused since you reported the 
claim, Ive awarded you £750 compensation.
The test here is whether Fairmead have done enough to put things right. I find that they 
havent.
I say this because, in my opinion, many of the issues faced by Mr M and Ms M over many 
months were completely avoidable and Fairmead had a real opportunity early into this claim 
to get a handle on the situation and the actions of their appointed agents. Its particularly 
disappointing that even after Mr M and Ms M were pro-active in letting Fairmead know what 
was (or wasnt) happening this didnt lead to an improved claim journey for them.
Ill give some examples below of events that have happened and their impact on Mr M and 
Ms M that I dont find Fairmead have fully recognised with their offer.
Fairmead say the works took over three times longer (14 weeks) than initially expected. This 
resulted in Mr M and Ms M being out of their home for much longer than originally planned. I 
find it unusual that there wasnt more urgency to complete these repairs given the initial 
report into the repairs highlighted that speed was important to prevent the damage becoming 
worse. Having reviewed the evidence, including a detailed timeline provided by the 
managing director of the contractors carrying out the repair works (dated 29 December 
2022), the timeline from start to completion appears to run from mid-March 2022 until early 
2023.
This is also supported by a report dated 18 November 2022 which states:
Works are now nearing completion with final items to resolve, updates awaited from 
Contractors & Surveyors.
Ive taken a balanced approach here as some delays will have been caused due to supply 
chain issues. For example, when waiting on windows and cladding. But the evidence shows 
that much of the delays were due to agents (contractors) of Fairmead not being on site when 
expected. Work delays and various missed meetings only delayed the necessary repairs and 
Mr M and Ms M returning to their home.
In any situation like this, the policy holder will have a finite amount of patience an 
understanding. I find Mr M and Ms M to have been reasonable and Im not at all surprised to 
see that eventually the business relationship between them and the appointed contractors 
broke down.
In my opinion, Mr M and Ms M (as the customers in this relationship) couldnt have done 
much more to try and move this claim to settlement and were chasing many of the agents 
involved on a regular basis  often with no or unsatisfactory replies. This will have been 
incredibly frustrating across many months.In their final response letter, Fairmead have said its clear that youve experienced a lack of 
communication and delays that should have been avoided due to poor project 
management. I agree with this statement and I find that overall the claim was handled 
incredibly poorly.
The running theme of failures by Fairmead here is consistently underpinned by really poor 
communication. I also find that there was a lack of accountability for the actions of their 
agents by Fairmead. This will just be one of many claims that Fairmead will have been 
dealing with at any one time, but I believe that many of the issues with this claim could easily 
have been avoided and the impact on Mr M and Ms M mitigated through efficient 
communication, project management and proper accountability.
Putting things right
Fairmead Insurance Limited need to pay Mr M and Ms M a total of £1200 compensation. If 
they have already paid the earlier offer of £750, they now need to make payment of an 
additional £450.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman