DRN-2225727
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in relation 
to a mortgage valuation.
What happened
Mr D took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2017 to buy a flat. The mortgage was on a five-
year fixed interest rate. If it was repaid in full within the first five years, an early repayment 
charge (ERC) was payable.
In 2019 Mr D applied to NatWest, through a broker, to port his mortgage to a different 
property. The property he was moving to was a neighbouring flat in the same development 
as his existing one.
NatWest instructed a valuation. The valuation was carried out by the same company that 
valued the flat Mr D bought in 2017. The valuer said that the new property was not suitable 
security for a mortgage  on the basis that the level of service charge was too high. As a 
result, the application to port was declined.
Mr D disputed the valuation with NatWest. He pointed out that the service charge was the 
same as hed been paying on the flat he already owned, that NatWest had agreed to lend 
on two years earlier without issue. And he also highlighted that it was the same company 
that valued both flats  so he felt the two valuations conflicted.
NatWest contacted the valuer, but they said they stood by their original report. Following 
this response NatWest said it would not change its lending decision. It also reiterated that 
an ERC would still be payable if the mortgage was redeemed.
Mr D obtained a mortgage from another lender in order to complete the purchase of the 
new property. He repaid his NatWest mortgage in full and incurred an ERC, but 
complained to NatWest about how it had handled the application and valuation.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2020 and explained that I was minded to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. Below is an extract from those provisional findings, explaining 
why I thought this. 
NatWest has made the point in its response to Mr D and our service that it has appointed a 
qualified valuer to carry out the valuation in 2019 and that it is entitled to rely on their 
professional opinion when making a lending decision.
I dont disagree with this point. NatWest needs to make its lending decision based on the 
information available to it. It is not the expert when it comes to property valuations. As a 
result, Id expect it to appoint a suitably qualified expert. And I can see that it did so in this 
case. And I also think that generally it would be reasonable for it to rely on this experts 
opinion.
With that said, Id still expect NatWest to scrutinise that professional opinion if necessary. It 
isnt required to be an expert in order to do so if there was information available that would 
lead to the valuers opinion reasonably being questioned. So, while generally being able to 
rely on the professional opinion of a valuer, Id also expect NatWest to take appropriate 
steps to challenge this where appropriate. Particularly bearing in mind the significance of a 
mortgage application potentially being declined to its customer. And in relation to this 
application, I think there was enough information to reasonably question the valuation.
Mr D had applied successfully for a mortgage with NatWest in 2017. This was on a 
property in the same development. The valuation on that property was carried out in June 
2017 by the same valuer firm that carried out the disputed valuation in June 2019. NatWest 
had a copy of both valuations available  evidenced by them being provided to our service.
Mr D has explained that he was paying the same service charge on the flat he bought in 
2017 as he was due to pay on the flat he was purchasing in 2019. And I havent seen 
anything to dispute this. In 2017 the service charge had been acceptable but in 2019 it 
wasnt. I think this clearly indicated there was an inconsistency in the valuations. And the 
information available to NatWest made this clear.
I appreciate that two years had passed between the valuations. And lending criteria 
changes. So, the discrepancy couldve been explained by a change in NatWests policy on 
service charges  a decision it would be entitled to take. But NatWest has confirmed to our 
service that it does not have a set policy around service charges or what level are 
acceptable. And it said it gave no guidance to the valuer about this. So, there was 
apparently no change in NatWests lending policy that would explain why the valuations 
treated similar information, significantly differently. And again, NatWest wouldve known 
that its criteria would not have caused the contradiction.
NatWest has said that the valuer used guidance from the relevant industry regulator when 
deciding the service charge was unacceptable for lending purposes. And it has referred 
our service to that guidance. Ive looked at the information it has referred us to. This is 
general guidance for all valuers from the relevant regulator. It doesnt set a threshold for 
what would be an acceptable level of service charge and what wouldnt. Importantly 
though, the information Ive been provided suggests that this guidance didnt change 
between the valuations in June 2017 and June 2019. So as that guidance was unchanged, 
it wouldnt provide an explanation for the discrepancy between the valuations. And again, 
this information was available to NatWest.
So, in summary, at the point Mr D raised issue with the 2019 valuation, NatWest was in 
possession of a relatively recent alternative valuation, from the same company, which 
provided a contradictory opinion on the impact of approximately the same service charge. 
It knew that it had not changed its lending criteria, which mightve explained the differing 
view. And information confirming that regulatory guidance for the valuer had not changed 
was also available. So, while I accept NatWest was not the expert, I think there was 
enough information available to make it question whether the 2019 valuation was correct  
in much the same way Mr D questioned it. So, Id have expected NatWest to take 
appropriate steps to check this.
NatWest says it contacted the valuer about this. I can see it did so. And I can see that the 
valuer responded confirming the information that it had included in the valuation itself. But 
taking everything into account I dont think that this query went far enough to address the 
contradictory information.
Ive seen the response from the valuer to the query. This noted that NatWest raised a 
general query. The form indicates that other options available to NatWest were a valuation review or to raise a concern. Based on the information available I think both of 
these options wouldve been more appropriate.
Ive seen NatWests notes around why it didnt challenge the valuation via these other 
methods. In summary this comes down to its lending criteria being that it relies on the 
professional opinion of the valuer as to whether the property is suitable for its (NatWests) 
requirements. Essentially its process being it wont usually challenge a valuation unless 
there was a factual error. But I think there was a valid reason here to make an exception 
and do something different to its standard process. Thats because the information 
available to it about the proximity of the properties and the mortgage applications, would 
indicate even in their position of not being an expert in valuations, that something was 
potentially wrong with one of the reports. And NatWest had enough information to know 
that the discrepancy in the reports apparently wasnt actually due to its requirements  as it 
has said it didnt set any requirements around service charges. 
As Ive already said, while I agree NatWest is entitled to rely on a professional opinion, I 
also would expect, where there is strong enough evidence to question that opinion, 
NatWest to do so. I cant see that the 2017 valuation was provided to the valuer to 
consider or that the discrepancy was directly questioned. And the response from the valuer 
to the query didnt directly address any additional information or the reason for the query 
itself  the discrepancy. So, I dont think NatWest did enough.
In the specific circumstances of this application, based on the information presented to it, I 
think it wouldve been fair for NatWest to have instructed a further valuation when Mr D 
raised concerns with the one carried out in June 2019. This might not have been its usual 
process. But I think it wouldve been fair given the information available and the potential 
cost involved to Mr D, to do something outside of its usual process. 
It is difficult to know with certainty what a second valuation in 2019, if instructed by 
NatWest, wouldve said. But after NatWest declined Mr Ds application to port he applied 
for a mortgage with another lender. Its fair to assume that lender also instructed a 
valuation of the property being purchased. And, as is largely industry standard, its likely 
that valuation was carried out by an equally qualified valuer to that used by NatWest, 
following the same regulatory guidelines. As a mortgage was advanced it would appear 
that valuer felt the property was suitable for mortgage purposes and that the service 
charge was not prohibitive.
Likewise, Mr D was apparently successful in selling the property he bought in 2017. I 
understand that this was also bought with a mortgage by the new owners. That lender 
would also have likely instructed a valuation, by a suitably qualified valuer. And it would 
appear that they also felt that the service charges applicable in the development did not 
make the property unacceptable as a security.
So that would mean that, in the space of approximately two and a half years, at least three 
separate valuations had not taken issue with the level of the service charge. Whereas one 
had. On balance that leads me to think that, had NatWest instructed a further valuation  
as I think wouldve been fair in this case  it is more likely than not that the further valuation 
wouldve found that the service charge was acceptable.
Had that happened, I think on balance Mr Ds application to port his mortgage wouldve 
been successful. NatWest has acknowledged in its submissions to our service that the 
valuation was done after affordability had been assessed and relevant credit checks 
carried out. And Ive seen no indication that there was anything else preventing the porting 
application from going ahead. And had Mr Ds porting application gone ahead, I 
understand he would not have incurred the ERC charged by NatWest.  Overall, I think NatWest has made an error and shouldve done more when Mr D queried 
the valuation in June 2019. And had it done more I think the application to port would likely 
have gone ahead, meaning he would not have incurred an ERC. So, I think the fair way to 
resolve his complaint would be for NatWest to refund that ERC to Mr D along with interest 
for the period he did not have use of these funds.
responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr D accepted my provisional decision.
NatWest said it didnt think the valuation in 2019 was incorrect, just that Mr D disagreed 
with the outcome. And it didnt feel he had provided tangible evidence to show it was 
incorrect as it felt the 2017 valuation, on a different property, was not enough to dispute the 
valuation carried out in 2019. It also said just because the 2017 application had succeeded 
didnt mean the 2019 must also be approved.
NatWest said it had raised a post valuation query but the valuer had maintained their 
position and, as a responsible lender, it must take the valuers report into consideration.
My understanding therefore, although NatWest has not confirmed this, is that it does not 
accept my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings.
NatWest has said as a responsible lender it must take the valuers report into consideration. 
And as I explained in my provisional findings, I dont disagree with this. But Id still expect 
NatWest to scrutinise the professional opinion of the valuer and take appropriate steps to 
challenge this if necessary. And here I felt there was sufficient information available to 
question the valuers opinion.
NatWest has pointed to the 2017 report being on a different property and that time had 
passed between this and the 2019 report. 
I acknowledge that the reports are on different properties. But the properties are 
neighbouring and within the same development. And it is the conflicting treatment of the 
service charge for those properties  which I understand to be at approximately the same 
level  that is the important information. So, I dont agree with NatWest that there was not 
tangible evidence of a potential issue with the 2019 valuation, just because the 2017 
valuation was on a different flat in the same development.
And again, I acknowledge that time had passed between the two valuations. But as I 
explained in my provisional findings, NatWest has said that its lending policy doesnt set 
criteria for valuers on service charges. So, there was nothing in, or changes to, its policy 
that would explain why the valuations treated similar information, significantly differently. 
And from the information available I cant see that there was a change in the guidance 
being used by the valuer from its relevant industry regulator to explain this discrepancy either. All of this information was available to NatWest at the time Mr D first queried the 
valuation.
NatWest has said that just because the 2017 application was successful, this doesnt mean 
that the 2019 should have been. But that isnt in question. The issue is that information 
from the 2017 valuation was sufficient, after Mr D raised concerns about the 2019 
valuation, to question the valuers opinion. And I think NatWest was required to take 
appropriate steps to do so.
NatWest has again said it raised a query to the valuer about this. But as I explained in my 
provisional findings, I dont think that went far enough here. I think there was sufficient 
information available, indicating a potential issue, for NatWest to have raised more than a 
query to the valuer. But from what I can see it didnt even highlight the information that 
indicated a discrepancy  so the valuer wasnt asked to address the issue directly. 
I think the appropriate action, in the circumstances of this individual complaint  with Mr D 
potentially facing the significant cost of an ERC if his porting application was declined  
wouldve been for NatWest to order a further valuation of the property. While this may have 
been outside of NatWests usual process, I think the information available in these 
particular circumstances wouldve warranted it doing so.
Had NatWest instructed a further valuation, as I think it shouldve done, I remain of the 
opinion that, on balance of probabilities, the further valuation wouldve found that the 
service charge was acceptable. And based on what Ive seen and been told, I think Mr Ds 
porting application wouldve been successful, and he would not have incurred an ERC. So, 
I remain of the opinion that NatWest has made an error and that the fair way to address 
this is to put Mr D in the position he wouldve likely been in had this error not happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
To put things right National Westminster Bank Plc should;
Pay Mr D £5,714.10  equivalent to the ERC charged in October 2019.
Pay interest on that amount at a rate of 8% per annum from the date it was charged 
until the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman