DRN-4249186
The complaint
Mr D complains, through a representative, about the advice he received in 1996 from what is 
now Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to start a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions plan (FSAVC).
Although Mr D is represented in this complaint, for ease of reading I will generally refer to all 
of complainants representations as being made by Mr D.
What happened
Mr D was a member of a final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 
September 1996 he and his wife met with Aviva to discuss making additional provision for 
their retirement. A fact find was completed which showed Mr Ds circumstances at the time 
were as follows:
he was 24 years old, married with no dependents
employed earning around £15,400 per year
joined his employers OPS in 1994; the schemes normal retirement age was 60
he wasnt expecting to retire until age 60, but hoped to retire at age 55
Mr Ds objective was to provide additional retirement income from age 55 onwards. 
At this time Mr D was provided with a comparison leaflet titled Additional Voluntary 
Contributions Information on the Options Available to You. Amongst other things, regarding 
additional voluntary contributions (AVC), it said:
The charges on In house AVCs are usually lower than on an FSAVC Scheme. 
However, charges are difficult to quantify on conventional With-Profit and deposit type 
funds because investment managers generally retain discretion over the total returns.
And under the information related to an FSAVC, it stated:
Charges are usually higher than on Scheme AVCs although some companies offer 
products with very low charges specifically for members of certain occupational 
schemes. 
Mr D signed a declaration at the bottom of the leaflet confirming that he understood the 
content of the leaflet and that he had the opportunity to contact the administrator of his 
employers OPS and that as a result of his investigations, he decided to proceed with the 
FSAVC. 
Aviva recommended that Mr D take out its FSAVC and invest 100% in its Managed Fund. 
Mr D accepted the advice and began making monthly contributions of £25 (gross) in 
October 1996. 
In 1998, following further advice from what is now Aviva, Mr D increased his contributions to 
£64.94 (gross) per month. 
In November 2022, Mr D complained to Aviva that it had failed to provide him a suitable 
recommendation in 1996. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said, among other things, that the documents from the 
time of sale show that the adviser did explain the benefits of an in-house AVC and provided 
a comparison with an FSAVC arrangement. It also said that Mr D was provided with written 
material summarising these. Overall, Aviva thought the regulatory requirements had been 
met and the advice was suitable. 
Aviva also explained it thought Mr D had brought his complaint too late.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for an independent 
assessment. Our investigator first looked into whether this complaint was within our 
jurisdiction. He concluded that it was, explaining that even though the event being 
complained of occurred more than six years ago, he didnt think Mr D ought reasonably to 
have been aware he had cause to complain more than three years before he did. So it had 
been made in time. 
The investigator then went on to consider the merits of Mr Ds complaint. Having done so, he 
didnt consider that the FSAVC had been mis-sold so he didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree and said that there was nothing in the recommendation about charges and 
very little about any discussions, so he was unable to agree that the applicable guidance had 
been followed. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
I think it is also useful to reflect on the role of the Financial Ombudsman as an initial matter. 
This Service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the 
role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Instead this Service looks to 
resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong, we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred. 
I will now address Avivas objection about the timeliness of Mr Ds complaint.
Was the complaint made in time?The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, which form part of the FCAs Handbook. In particular 
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received.
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
We can only look at cases that fall outside of this time period if the business consents to us 
doing so or if the delay was due to exceptional circumstances. 
Where the business doesnt consent, as is the case here, I must consider whether the 
complaint has been made in time.
Mr Ds complaint concerns advice provided to him in 1996. As the complaint wasnt raised 
until 2022, more than six years later, we wouldnt be able to consider this complaint in 
accordance with DISP rule 2.8.2 (2)(a).
So, Ive gone on to consider whether the three-year rule applies. Applying DISP rule 2.8.2
(2)(b), would mean we can look at this complaint if it was made within three years from when
Mr D was aware (or ought reasonably to have been aware) that he had cause for complaint. 
Mr D has said that he wasnt aware of a cause to complain until he saw a social media 
advert in October 2022. Aviva assert that Mr D ought reasonably to have been aware he had 
cause for complaint following the subsequent advice he received in 1998 to increase his 
contribution to the FSAVC. 
Ive thought about this, but I dont agree that this ought reasonably to have made Mr D 
aware he had cause for complaint. Ive reviewed the information provided to him at this time 
and Im not persuaded it was sufficient to make him aware the initial advice might not have 
been right for him. And considering that the original advice was given only two years prior 
and the advice in 1998 was essentially the same, I dont think Mr D would have had any 
reason to question it. 
So I conclude that its more likely than not Mr D became aware that he had cause for 
complaint in October 2022. He then complained within three years. As theres insufficient 
evidence that persuades me that he ought reasonably to have known sooner, Im satisfied 
the complaint has been brought in time and is therefore something this Service can consider. 
Was the advice suitable?I have carefully reviewed all of the information provided by both parties in order to determine 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
In order to decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Aviva complied with the 
applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. And, if there were any 
failings, whether the failing made a difference. In particular, would Mr D have still taken out 
the FSAVC?
The advice was provided in October 1996. So the relevant regulatory guidance was 
contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was produced by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA), one of the predecessors to the current regulator  the 
FCA. RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of 
FSAVC and in-house AVC plans. The guidance set out different requirements depending on 
whether the adviser was an independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is 
employed by, or contracted to, one organisation and can only recommend and sell that 
organisations products. In this case the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU20 specified that:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking 
account, among other things, of the features described in this article); and
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys 
FSAVC.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVC plans 
would usually be lower. The regulator also expected the clients advice file to include 
documentary evidence demonstrating that the requirements of RU20 had been met.
So the adviser needed to make Mr D aware of the in-house AVC plan and discuss the 
generic features of the in-house option and the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve 
expected Aviva to discuss with Mr D would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-
house AVC arrangement. And I would expect Mr D to have been directed to his employer 
and/or OPS administrators to obtain more information on his in-house options.
I have reviewed the documents that were given to Mr D at the time he met with his adviser. I 
have made particular note of the leaflet, Additional Voluntary Contributions Information on 
the Options Available to You.
I am satisfied that this gave an understandable explanation of the choices available to Mr D 
and made him aware that he ought to contact his employers scheme administrators for 
details of the benefits that might be available to him under the in-house AVC option. 
The leaflet also considered the advantages of in-house AVCs in comparison to the 
alternative of an FSAVC, including that AVCs may be less expensive.  Mr D signed a declaration in September 1996 confirming the leaflet had been received and 
that hed had an opportunity to contact his employers scheme administrators. And the 
suitability letter provided to Mr D in October 1996 explained:
You are proceeding with this [FSAVC] plan after receiving an explanation of the 
comparative benefits of in-house AVC and FSAVC Plans, and you have received written 
material summarising these. 
Given this, I am not persuaded that no reference was made, or discussions held on those 
options. On the balance of probability, I am persuaded by the evidence I have seen that the 
adviser complied with the relevant regulatory obligations and made appropriate references to 
Mr Ds options. 
I understand that Mr D will be disappointed with my conclusions. However, I am unable to 
conclude in the circumstances of this complaint that the FSAVC was mis-sold, so I will not 
be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman