DRN-1317814
The complaint
 Mr L is unhappy with the way two home emergency claims have been handled and with the 
decisions made by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV).
 What happened
Mr L had a buildings and contents insurance policy that provided home emergency cover. In 
May 2019 Mr L called LV to make a claim following a leak in his toilet. LV authorised Mr L to 
appoint his own plumber to complete the emergency repair. Mr L sent an invoice for £380 on 
3 June 2019. He received an acknowledgement saying the invoice would be paid in three to 
five working days. 
Mr L contacted LV about another claim on 15 June 2019. This claim related to a leaking 
boiler pipe. LV sent out an engineer, but said they needed to carry out a trace and access. 
Mr L asked his own contractor to complete the repair without the need for trace and access 
and sent LV an invoice for £400.
Mr L is unhappy that although LV agreed to pay a plumber appointed by him for the May 
incident, they have not done so. LV have also not met the claim he made in June. LV wrote 
to Mr L on 18 June 2019 and explained they would not consider any further claims and later 
wrote to Mr L to cancel his policy with effect from 18 June 2019. LV said Mr L hadnt 
adequately maintained his property in spite of advice to do so. They also expressed concern 
that Mr L had sent them fraudulent invoices and concerns that the incidents actually 
happened at other properties Mr L rented out. LV concluded that at the very least Mr L had 
failed to prove his losses. 
Mr L was unhappy with LVs response and brought his complaint to this service. He asked 
for his claims to be met and for compensation for the time he spent attending appointments 
to complete the repairs at his property.
The investigator who reviewed his complaint didnt uphold it. He said he didnt think the 
claims were sudden or unexpected, as required by the policy terms. The investigator also 
referred to an exclusion in the policy in respect of claims following an emergency repair 
when maintenance hasnt been carried out to stop the emergency recurring. Finally, the 
investigator said that because of discrepancies in his evidence Mr L couldnt prove his claim. 
Mr L didnt accept what the investigator said and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to consider. He said he had maintained his house 
and the two rejected claims were for separate unforeseen events in different parts of the 
house. Mr L said he no longer wanted the policy, so didnt want it to be reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this 
complaint. LV did agree to meet the cost of a contractor of Mr Ls choice completing necessary work in 
May 2019, so I need to decide if they acted reasonably in later rejecting the claim. 
Mr L sent an invoice to LV from contractor A for the May 2019 claim. The invoice said it was 
for a leaking pipe in the toilet which cost £380 to repair. Mr L made a claim in April 2019 and 
submitted an invoice from contractor B which covered leaking pipes in the toilet, which also 
cost £380 to repair. And Mr L wasnt able to provide LV with evidence he paid £380 to 
contractor A at the relevant time. Added to this, when LV contacted contractor B they said 
they hadnt completed the work on the invoice for Mr L.
Given these discrepancies Im persuaded LV acted reasonably in not meeting Mr Ls May 
2019 claim, in spite of the fact they authorised it in advance, LV can only be expected to pay 
claims that are valid, and I dont think Mr L has demonstrated his was. 
Mr L made another claim in June 2019. At the time LV said they would need to carry out 
trace and access to identify the source of a leak in Mr Ls water tank cupboard.  Mr L didnt 
think this was necessary, so was told he could provide a report from an independent 
contractor and if the diagnosis was different LV would investigate further and consider 
whether to reimburse Mr L. Mr L didnt send a report, but sent a further invoice from 
contractor A for £400. He said the repair had been completed without the need for trace and 
access. 
The work listed on the invoice for £400 from contractor A following the June claim also 
appeared to be the same as other work covered by the contractor B invoice from the April 
claim.  LV paid £780 to Mr L following the April claim, which included £380 for the toilet leak 
discussed above and £400 for a leak in the water tank cupboard. After receiving the second 
invoice from contractor A. LV considered cancelling Mr Ls policy and so didnt give a claim 
decision. In the light of discrepancies and what I say below about policy terms Im satisfied 
LV acted fairly. 
Mr Ls claims have fallen under the home emergency section of his policy. It covers sudden 
and unforeseen events that may make a home unsafe, cause damage to a home or 
contents, or leave a home without essential services. It doesnt cover general maintenance 
and excludes,
any subsequent claim relating to the same problem where home maintenance has not been 
carried out in order to prevent the emergency recurring;.
Mr L has had multiple claims since 2014, the majority of which have been for leaking pipes. 
Ive also seen evidence he was told in February 2019 his pipework needed updating without 
delay, but have not seen anything to indicate Mr L had the necessary work done. Having 
considered all the evidence Im satisfied Mr Ls claims were not unexpected and were more 
likely than not to be the result of a lack of maintenance.
Following the claim in June 2019 LV cancelled Mr Ls policy. Mr Ls policy says LV have the 
right not to pay a claim and/or cancel home emergency cover (on giving seven days notice) 
if a policyholder has used the service excessively or unreasonably. Mr Ls policy also says 
LV may cancel it if they identify any misrepresentation, fraud, use of false documents or 
attempt to gain a financial advantage. Im persuaded that given Mr Ls repeated claims and 
the discrepancies in the evidence he provided LV acted reasonably in cancelling his policy 
after giving him notice of cancellation.
My final decision For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman