DRN-2862802
The complaint
Mr C complains Nationwide Building Society will no refund some disputed transactions made 
on his credit card.
Nationwide says it thinks the transactions are authorised.  
What happened
Between 2nd February 2020 and 13th March 2020, a total of 470 transactions were made 
from Mr Cs credit card account to merchant A. The amounts varied  but ranged from 99p 
through to just under £50  and the transactions were being made daily. On some days, 
multiple transactions were being made.
Mr C was alerted to the transactions on 2nd April.  He contacted Nationwide to explain what 
he thought had happened.  He said he had entered his credit card details into the account 
held with A.  This allowed his son to have access to this through his tablet and he thinks his 
son saw him enter his password on one occasion and had been using this to make the 
payments. In total, he had spent just over £5800. 
Mr C also explained that he had opted for paperless statements but hadnt signed up for 
online banking  so he wasnt looking at his statements regularly.  He also explained that he 
had set up a minimum payment of a relatively small amount because he wasnt using the 
account regularly.
Nationwide initially told Mr C that the payments would be treated as fraud.  However, in its 
final response it said it had given Mr C the wrong information.  It thought the payments were 
authorised and it offered £100 for the poor service.  It reminded Mr C of his right to come to 
this service.
When our investigator looked into Mr Cs case, she thought Nationwide could have done 
more.  She explained this to both parties and thought a fair outcome would be for Nationwide 
to bear half of the liability and Mr C the other half.  Mr C agreed but Nationwide did not.  
Specifically, it disagreed that its fraud detection system should have picked up on the 
irregular spending on the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
were the payments authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Cs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These say that if the evidence suggests its more likely than not 
that Mr C authorised these transactions, Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable. The 
PSRs also say that the person to whom a card has been issued must notify the firm which 
provided the card if they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without 
undue delay.
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr C can be treated 
as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on his account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mr 
C needs to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payment were authenticated from the information provided to us 
by Nationwide. In other words, Mr Cs genuine card was used to make them  
and in any event, Mr C accepts he had entered his details into the account.
Consent in these cases is not the same as informed consent.  In other words, Mr 
C doesnt need to know the full extent of the transactions that are being made in 
order to be held liable.  Ive mentioned the concept of apparent authority above 
and I think thats relevant here.  
Mr C entered his account details which allowed his son to assume his apparent 
authority when making the purcashes.  Its was through an error on Mr Cs part 
that he failed to place parental controls on the account. So, in the circumstances, 
I think its fair to conclude that Mr C authorised these payments.
However, there are other considerations which apply to Mr Cs complaint.
Could Nationwide have done more
Ive also considered whether Nationwide could have done more to protect Mr Cs account. 
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, 
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out 
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry 
guidance on this in the 2017 BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. Nationwide has signed up to the 
Code, and it includes persuasive evidence of what banks can do to protect customers, 
especially vulnerable customers.
Considering good industry practice, I think Nationwide should have detected the unusual 
spending pattern occurring on Mr Cs account in early February 2020.  I accept that there 
had been genuine payments to gaming companies in the past  but nothing like the volume 
Mr C is now complaining about.  I think Nationwide ought to have intervened and contacted 
Mr C to check that all was as it should be.  It didnt do this.
Nationwide argues that it doesnt offer personal banking and that the transactions did not 
alert its fraud system.  It cant be fair or reasonable for Nationwide to submit that it can only 
offer protection in these cases if the account has the benefit of personal banking.
So, on balance, I think in this case it is fair and reasonable to say Nationwide ought to 
have intervened.
contributory negligence
The next question I must consider is whether Mr C should bear some responsibility by 
way of contributory negligence. Of course, I take into account Nationwides responsibilities, but I must also consider whether Mr C acted reasonably taking into 
account all the circumstances in the case and whether his actions contributed to the loss 
 and I think they did.
Mr C has also had a duty to protect and monitor his account.  He chose not to register for 
online banking and then opted for paperless statements.  He knew he had registered his 
card with A  so there was an opportunity for it to be used.  He also failed to add the parental 
controls on the account which meant his son was able to use it undetected.
So, when I think about apportioning negligence in the case, I think a fair and reasonable 
allocation would be that Nationwide bears half of the liability and Mr C bears the other half.
What that means is that Nationwide must refund half of the disputed transactions, along with 
any interest and charges.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society must refund half of the disputed transactions to Mr C  so 
£2908.36 along with any interest and charges applied to this amount.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman