DRN-1374468
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mrs S completed at the time. I 
can see that PPI had to be selected to get it. Mrs S had to tick a box for the cover 
and sign for it. And the signature was separate from the signature Mrs S had to make 
to get the credit. So it seems most likely to me that Mrs S chose to take the cover 
and did so knowing she had a choice.
 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But she chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that Mrs S was only entitled to sick pay for up to six 
months in the event she was too ill to work. And shes told us she had no other 
means she could have relied on in that event, or if she lost her job, such that she 
might have had to sell her home to pay her credit card. So as this policy could have 
paid out for up to 12 months in that event, or if Mrs S lost her job, I think the policy 
would have been useful to her if something went wrong. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI and its cost would have put her off taking out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said but these points dont change my decision.I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund everything Mrs S paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman