DRN-3185053
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) when 
making a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties so I've not laid it out in detail 
here, in summary Mr H is unhappy with:
The information and service he was given by the call handlers he spoke to when 
making a claim under his motor insurance policy
The collection of his vehicle not taking place as arranged and not happening until the 
following day, leaving his car unsecured
Aviva had not booked the repair with the receiving garage as it had said it had
Aviva initially only planned to give him a small courtesy car which wasn't suitable, 
and it provided the incorrect address to the hire car company for it to deliver a car to 
him.
Mr H made a detailed complaint to Aviva about these points and said he felt £500 
compensation would be appropriate to put things right. In its response Aviva agreed Mr H 
hadn't received the level of customer service it would expect and offered £150 compensation 
for this. Mr H didn't think Aviva had addressed all of his points or that the compensation was 
sufficient, Aviva reviewed this and increased its compensation offer to £175. Mr H remained 
unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator who looked into matters didn't uphold Mr H's complaint, in summary they 
said:
There is no dispute by either party that the calls could have been handled better
Although she understood Mr H's frustrations and concerns, she didn't feel the 
timescale for collecting his car was unreasonable in the circumstances.
The claim notes from Aviva system confirmed it had booked the repairing of the 
receiving garage
The policy didn't provide for a courtesy car and Aviva had given this as a gesture of 
goodwill and agreed a like for like vehicle due to Mr H's circumstances. And although 
Aviva had initially given an incorrect address, to the hire car company, Mr H had 
corrected it prior to it being delivered. So there was no detriment here 
Overall, the compensation Aviva had offered was fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience Mr H had experienced
Mr H disagreed, he said there has been further mistakes since his complaint and would like 
these considered also. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr H that I won't be upholding this complaint and for broadly 
the same reasons as the investigator, I'll explain.
Before I do I think it's important to point out Ive read and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Both parties have sent this 
service a lot of information for me to consider during the course of their complaint. If Ive not 
reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its 
because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or 
provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the 
complaint.
I'm aware Mr H has raised further issues that have occurred in regard to this claim. But I 
have not looked into these as part of this decision, as I feel it's only right that Aviva has its 
chance to address them first.
There is no dispute here by either party that things could have been handled better during 
this claim, so my role here is to decide if Aviva has done enough to put things right.
By their very nature, the circumstances that lead to any claim under an insurance policy 
cause a certain amount of distress. When making a claim, consumers like Mr H are entitled 
to expect their insurer to make things as easy and seamless as possible. So, I completely 
appreciate that when Mr H was receiving conflicting information from the call handlers this 
was particularly frustrating for him. Aviva has accepted this and provided feedback internally 
to its call handlers.
Mr Hs keys were stolen by a pickpocket while he was out shopping, he had his spare key 
brought to him so he could return the car home. So, while I understand the concern Mr H 
must have felt knowing that his car was parked on the street while somebody had access to 
his keys. Im mindful of the fact the car was no longer in the immediate area of where the 
keys were stolen from and so feel this minimised the risk of it being taken overnight. That 
being said had it been taken I would have expected Aviva to deal with the claim 
appropriately as it was on notice of the risk. However, my role is not to consider hypothetical 
situations, so I have not gone on to consider this further. But have taken Mr H's concerns 
into account.
I accept the garage told Mr H his car hadn't been booked in properly by Aviva, but the claim 
notes provided by Aviva suggest otherwise and so I'm satisfied it did nothing wrong here.
In this case Mr H was not entitled, under his policy, to a courtesy car. But given the claim 
process hadn't been smooth for Mr H, Aviva agreed to provide a courtesy car as a gesture of 
goodwill, and due to Mr H's circumstances upgraded this to a like for like car.
My role here is not to punish a business but to see that it does what it can to put things right 
when it's got something wrong. Aviva has offered £175 to compensate Mr H. 
But I think its worth noting that compensation does not always take a monetary form. Given 
this I'm satisfied the £175 and the like for like car hire that Aviva agreed is fair in the 
circumstances and more than I would have asked it to do. It follows I won't be asking Aviva 
to increase its offer here.I understand Mr H's strength of feeling about this and no he will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do 
for him.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman