DRN-2564929
The complaint
Miss C complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) hasnt fairly settled her claim for 
items stolen when her home was burgled.
What happened
Miss C was burgled, and made a claim for both stolen items and some damage to her home. 
Esure agreed to look at her claim and she provided a list of things that had been stolen, 
largely jewellery and some other items. The jewellery was valued at over £17,000 by esures 
specialist based on Miss Cs descriptions and receipts.
After some delay, esure settled the claim by paying £553 to Miss C for some items (perfume 
etc). It said it would settle the jewellery part of Miss Cs claim at £2,600, as this was the 
amount of cover she had for high risk items.
Miss C complained, and explained that some of her jewellery was correctly described as 
costume. It was valued at £500 in the list of stolen items and she thought esure should pay 
for this, as it shouldnt be classified as high risk. She also complained about the fact that she 
hadnt received the £553 payment for her other items.
Esure wouldnt change its position on the jewellery settlement, but it did apologise for not 
sending the £553  it said that had been overlooked by mistake. It sent Miss C this in July 
and offered £50 to make up for the mistake. And it said that as Miss C had paid for repairs to 
her door, it would deduct the value of this work from any relevant excess due under the 
policy.
Miss C remains unhappy about this and brought her complaint to us for review. She also 
pointed out that she thought one of the communications from esure suggested she was 
insured for £25,990 and there was no limit on jewellery etc. She thinks a fair way for esure to 
settle the claim is to pay her the full value of her jewellery  or if not, then the difference 
between her other belongings and the amount her contents are insured for overall  more 
than £9,000.
Our investigator looked at the way Miss C had bought her policy, which was online through a 
price comparison website. He thought Miss C had been asked clear questions about how 
much she thought her high risk items were worth  which included her jewellery. Miss C had 
said the total was £2,500. This amount was shown as a limit on her policy schedule  and 
when the policy was renewed the following year esure automatically increased the limit to 
£2,600. Our investigator thought esure had made it clear to Miss C each time it sent her a 
policy schedule (which lists the cover Miss C bought) that she should check the amount of 
cover she had.
Based on this, our investigator concluded that esure had dealt with the claim fairly as it had 
paid up to the relevant limits for the jewellery.
Miss C disagrees with this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this isnt what Miss C wants to hear, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
There are two parts to the complaint so Ill deal with them separately
The sale of the policy and related documents
Ive looked at the questions Miss C was asked when she provided details of the cover she 
wanted when she first bought the policy online. I think the question about valuable contents 
was clear. Theres an explanation that these are things that are easier to steal  and lists 
jewellery as one of these. Theres also an explanation that these might be called high risk 
items by some insurers. Miss C answered this question as £2,500  which is well below the 
value of her jewellery (excluding the costume jewellery  Ill comment on that later). 
I do understand that sometimes jewellery is inherited, as some of Miss Cs was, and people 
dont really think about how valuable it is. But Miss Cs jewellery was worth six or seven 
times the amount of cover she said she wanted. Additionally this section of cover was also 
meant to include items such as televisions and computers too  so its likely Miss Cs high 
risk items were worth even more in total.
I agree with our investigator  it was Miss Cs responsibility to ensure she bought enough 
cover for these items. She was purchasing the policy online, and so Id think she had time to 
consider the values she entered if she was unsure what figure to enter. esure wasnt directly 
involved in the initial sale  it simply set up the policy based on the information it received 
from Miss C. And it did remind her to check that she had enough cover both when she first 
bought the policy and at renewal. Overall I think esure did enough to try to make sure Miss C 
checked she had enough cover.
This means that its fair for esure to limit the amount it pays for high risk items to the amount 
listed - £2,600.
Miss C has told us about a communication from esure about her cover that she thinks is 
misleading. The document Ive seen refers to the total amount of contents cover Miss C has, 
and goes on to say this can include high risk items. I dont think the wording suggests Miss C 
has cover for high risk items up to the value of her overall cover, so it follows I dont think this 
would have led Miss C believe she had more cover for high risk items than she had. 
High risk items and costume jewellery
Miss C doesnt think her costume jewellery  valued by her at about £500 in total  should 
be included as valuable or high risk, as individually items are worth between £20 and £50. 
So she thinks esure should pay her for this. I dont agree. The description of high risk doesnt 
define how much a piece of jewellery might be worth  instead it explains that things like 
jewellery are easy to steal  so they are more likely to be taken. Its the ease with which 
things can be removed from a home that makes them high risk, rather than their intrinsic 
value  although they often are worth a lot. I think the distinction between high risk and high 
value is supported by the fact that higher value items (over £1,500) must be specified 
individually if they are to be covered.
Other points
Miss C says she believes esure deliberately withheld payment for some of her other 
belongings and for the repair to her home, as a bargaining tool when it realised she wasnt 
going to accept the settlement offer it made for the jewellery. Esure says this was simply an 
oversight by a member of staff  and when it realised this it sent the payment plus some 
compensation. 
I havent seen anything that suggests esure did deliberately delay this payment. I think the 
offer of the compensation is a reasonable response to what appears to be a mistake.Our investigator did ask Miss C to confirm shed had this payment  both the £553 and the 
compensation. I havent seen anything that says she hasnt  but if she didnt get the 
payment esure can re-issue it if she contacts it.
My final decision
Based on my comments above, my decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman