DRN-3689515
The complaint
Ms S complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) didnt administer her investment account 
properly and delayed the transfer of the account. 
What happened
Ms S says ITI Capital is responsible for problems including delays setting up the account, 
problems with her access to it, inconsistent and incorrect information shown on it and delays 
to a cash withdrawal and three dividend payments. She says the transfer delay also caused 
her extreme concern about what would happen to one of her shareholdings.
Ms S opened an account with a new provider in June 2020, so she was ready to transfer her 
holdings from ITI Capital. She expected access to her ITI Capital account on 22 July 2020. 
But Ms S was unable to use the password ITI Capital gave her. She let ITI Capital know this, 
including in an email of 28 July 2020. 
ITI Capital noted her difficulty in an email of 5 August 2020. In the meantime, Ms S was also 
providing identification documents in emails ending on 7 August 2020. At that point she also 
asked again for help with her password issue. 
ITI Capital responded in an email on 28 August 2020. At that point Ms S was able to access 
her account. 
Ms S asked ITI Capital on 31 August 2020 for a closure form - to transfer her account. She 
has also said she emailed her new provider on 3 September to arrange a transfer. 
ITI Capital paid Ms S a cash withdrawal of around £1100 on 14 September. Based on when 
it got her request for this, ITI Capital accepts it shouldve paid this on 9 September instead. 
Ms S says her new provider contacted ITI Capital about the transfer on 28 September. She 
also says it took a month to get the closure form she asked ITI Capital for on 31 August.
Ms S resent ITI Capital identification documents in or around early October 2020. ITI Capital 
says this was because it had expected to be able transfer documents between systems but 
found it wasnt able to do so.
Ms S says a dividend, worth around £200, shouldve been available to be put into her bank 
account from 22 September 2020 rather than 29 October. She says ITI Capital delayed this 
and two smaller dividends due in October that werent available to her until March 2021. 
ITI Capital says its own receipt of the dividends was delayed. It says it received one of the 
smaller dividends from the registrar only in January 2021 rather than October 2020.
Ms S also says she lost around £14 in total on the dividends due to unfavourable currency 
exchange costs. She says she avoided these under her previous provider by opting for 
dividends paid in sterling. She says she couldve also avoided these costs at the new 
provider, to which the dividends wouldve been paid, if the transfer hadnt been delayed.
On 19 November 2020 Ms S told ITI Capital that the share price of a shareholding she had 
was higher than it was valued by an offer for that company made in late October 2020. So 
she wanted to sell the shares to avoid losing out if the offer took effect in March 2021. Ms S 
said she was unable to sell her shares due to the transfer having not yet completed. She 
repeated this point on 24 December 2020, noting then that the 10 December 2020 share 
price wouldve got her about £500 more for her shares than the offer price.
In February 2020 Ms S put the value of the affected shareholding at around £16000 and 
repeated her concern. She added she was concerned she could lose all this value if the offer 
resulted in the company being taken off the stock market, making it difficult or impossible for 
her to sell her shares. She asked for urgent action by ITI Capital ahead of a 9 March 2021 
deadline. The transfer eventually completed on 3 March 2021. Ms S has told us she is no 
longer seeking compensation for financial losses on those shares. But she claims for 
distress suffered  which she says was extreme in view of the value of the shares at stake.
Ms S also claims for inconvenience and other distress caused by ITI Capitals delay of the 
transfer. She considers the transfer itself shouldve taken only a few weeks and six at most 
for complex assets, which her account didnt contain. The transfer actually took a great many 
months. Ms S has also referred to inconvenience and concern caused by other matters, 
including having a temporary account password for an extended time, concern about the 
way ITI Capital handled sensitive information, new accounts or account numbers appearing 
without her asking for them (for which ITI Capital has since given an explanation) and wrong 
and inconsistent information showing on the account.
Ms S also says that if it hadnt been for problems with her account access, she wouldve 
requested the September cash withdrawal on 31 July or 45 days earlier than she did. She 
thinks when ITI Capital became aware of her log-in problems, it shouldve done more to 
inform her of the cash on her account and help her withdraw funds. She says steps that 
wouldve allowed her to make a withdrawal online werent set up on her account, so she 
wasnt informed and didnt know how to make the withdrawal. She also says she made a 
withdrawal request by email on 28 July 2020 but did not receive a reply.
Ms S has also said ITI Capital delayed payment of a sum she accepted to settle her 
complaint. She later said she rejects that offer. Im considering here ITI Capitals handling of 
Ms Ss account rather than its handling of her complaint, so Ill say no more on this point.
The above includes my summary of Ms Ss points and doesnt include all the points she has 
made, but I have considered all the points she has made and all she has said and sent.
ITI Capital has accepted there were problems and delays. It has said Ms Ss account access 
was subject to unacceptable and unreasonable delay. It has said the transfer was subject to 
unacceptable and unreasonable delay. It doesnt agree that all the dividends were delayed 
as much as Ms S says. Also it doesnt accept a currency exchange charge was responsible 
for a £14 reduction in Ms Ss dividends in the way she says  it doesnt recognise that issue 
in the terms in which Ms S has raised it.
Our investigator didnt think ITI Capital was at fault for that £14 reduction. Our investigator 
didnt think ITI Capital had to offer Ms S the options her previous provider offered (that she 
says helped avoid those costs). Ms S replied saying she had given enough reason for why 
she should recover this amount.
Our investigator agreed with Ms S that her dividends had been delayed but didnt think 
separate redress for this was warranted, in view of the very small amounts involved.
Our investigator thought ITI Capital should pay Ms S 8% interest on the delayed withdrawal for the time ITI Capital delayed it, counting from when it received its requirements from Ms S. 
ITI Capital questioned whether interest ought to be awarded for such a short delay. Our 
investigator thought what ITI Capital said suggested the delay was slightly less, at five days, 
than first calculated but still thought ITI Capital should pay interest for that period. ITI Capital 
hasnt commented on that since. Ms S replied to say she found it unfair for interest on the 
withdrawal to run for only five and not for 48 days.
Our investigator thought ITI Capital should compensate Ms S for the inconvenience and 
distress its failings caused her. Ms S replied to say £350 for this is insufficient even for just 
the transfer delay, given how long it was, and such a sum nowhere near reflects the impact 
on her of the problems shed experienced, particularly stress and anxiety.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. I do so on broadly the same basis 
as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
In brief summary, I'm satisfied ITI Capital failed to provide Ms S the service it ought to have 
given her. In particular it took too long to arrange her transfer.
Turning to specific financial losses Ms S has pointed to, the largest is a reduction in her 
dividends of about £14 (in total) due to currency exchange costs she says she wouldnt have 
suffered if ITI Capital had offered the facility to request the dividend payments in sterling. 
She says both her previous and her new provider wouldve allowed this. 
But in my view ITI Capital was not required under the terms of any agreement to offer the 
same service as her previous provider in this respect. The terms relating to comparable 
charges for a period with ITI Capital in my view dont apply here. Also I dont agree that it 
was unfair that ITI Capitals service didnt offer this facility. 
As for whether the terms of the new provider should be considered instead, I dont overlook 
the problems Ms S had with her account from the start. Also her request for the correct form 
from ITI Capital in late August was not resolved until late September. But if ITI Capital hadnt 
delayed things, Im not persuaded the transfer most likely wouldve completed in time for the 
dividends to be paid to her new provider. I note for example the first and largest was due on 
22 September with an ex-dividend date some weeks earlier. I note in passing Ms Ss new 
provider contacted ITI Capital in late September after her contact in early September.
So I dont uphold Ms Ss claim for the loss of around £14 (in total) she says was the result of 
all this and I dont include that in my award. 
Ive considered the delay on the September 2020 withdrawal. Ms S requested this soon after 
getting access to her account and it was paid to an account shed set up in advance. If shed 
been able to access her account earlier, she wouldve been able to ask for the withdrawal 
earlier. She asked for help with her password a few times. ITI Capital noted her difficulty on 
5 August but didnt help until 28 August, despite her asking again on 7 August. ITI Capital 
should have helped earlier. It is accepted that processing the withdrawal request was 
delayed by five days. But Ms S wouldve been able to request it at least two weeks earlier if 
shed had help earlier  so in my view the delay is better viewed as 20 days rather than five. On that basis the financial impact is still very small, and in my view the material impact was 
instead by way of the inconvenience for Ms S and fairly dealt with as part of the overall 
inconvenience. But given what has been said by the parties during our consideration of this 
complaint, and given the delay was not just a few days, I dont see a reason to depart from 
the approach our investigator suggested to assessing and redressing the financial loss on 
the withdrawal. I think it fair and reasonable to adopt that here in all the circumstances. So 
Ive reflected this in my award below. I dont overlook what Ms S says about requesting the 
withdrawal in a July email, but Im not persuaded ITI Capital ought to have made payment 
based on that, given that identification and verification processes were ongoing at the time.
Turning to what Ms S says about the delay in her receipt of dividends, ITI Capital has told us 
it received the smallest of these from the registrar in January 2021 and not in October 2020 
like Ms S thinks. It says it received the dividends after the payment dates and cant say why 
but it says this is a matter for the registrar. That said, Official Bank rate at the time was 0.1% 
and would yield around eight pence if applied to all the dividends and for all of the periods 
Ms S has cited. A different interest rate would yield a different result but I agree with the 
investigator that inconvenience is the material impact of any delay for which ITI Capital is 
responsible in this respect and it is fair to address this as part of the overall inconvenience 
caused to Ms S by ITI Capitals failings.
Ms S has said she suffered a great deal of stress, strain, and alarm, and was put to a great 
deal of trouble. She says she checked her account regularly because of concern about the 
safety of her assets or at least whether they had been recorded correctly. She has said it 
was a strain trying to work out what needed to be done and how she could get those various 
steps done. From what Ive seen it is beyond argument that Ms S had to do more of this sort 
of thing than she wouldve had to do had ITI Capital been administering her account as it 
shouldve been. Ms S says it all required very considerable patience and there was a lack of 
support and explanation, and inadequate responses, or no responses, to her emails. 
In my view Ms Ss characterisation of the situation is fair. ITI Capital has accepted it didnt 
perform adequately in terms of either the running of the account or the processing of the 
transfer. I think errors by ITI Capital, in particular the transfer delay, did cause and contribute 
to Ms S suffering inconvenience in connection with ITI Capitals handling of her account. 
Given the concerns she had about the potential impact of the transfer delay on a significant 
investment she held, I accept that as well as the inconvenience from having to wait for and 
chase up progress, the delay was also stressful  and this deserves emphasis. The stress is 
apparent in the nature of the correspondence Ms S sent to ITI Capital about this at the time.
Ms Ss concerns included anxieties about outcomes that didnt occur, but she feared might. 
But in large part those concerns couldnt have arisen if it hadnt been for ITI Capitals failings. 
Her concerns about the shareholding that was subject to an offer, for instance, wouldnt have 
arisen if the transfer hadnt been delayed. So her concerns were in large part caused by 
ITI Capitals failings and it bears responsibility in my view for much of the resulting distress. 
Id add Ive seen little to suggest ITI Capital did much to help Ms S manage those concerns. 
With all Ive said above in mind, and taking into account all Ms S and ITI Capital have said, I 
consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for ITI Capital to pay Ms S £400 for 
the inconvenience and distress its errors caused her.
Im grateful to both parties for their replies to our enquiries during our investigation and to 
Ms S for the detailed summaries she has provided and files of supporting documents, which 
have assisted our consideration of these matters.Putting things right
I find ITI Capital Limited at fault, as set out above, and so ITI Capital Limited should put 
things right.
To put things right, ITI Capital Limited should:
Pay Ms S 20 days simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on her September 2020 
cash withdrawal. 
Pay Ms S £400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her by its failings.
If any of these sums arent paid to Ms S within one month of ITI Capital Limited being 
notified of Ms Ss acceptance of this decision, then ITI Capital Limited should pay Ms S 
simple interest on any outstanding sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my 
decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Ms S the relevant amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint and 
order ITI Capital Limited to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman