DRN-4036036
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) declined an income 
protection claim made under his group income protection policy.
What happened
In summary Mr Bs policy will pay incapacity benefit after a waiting period of 28 weeks if the 
following definition is met and has been met during the 28-week period:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work or 
occupation.
Mr B was first absent from work on 4 October 2020  so in order to succeed in his claim he 
needed to show evidence of incapacity until 18 April 2021 and beyond.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr B appealed. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2023. In that decision I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive carefully 
read all the representations. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
It serves no purpose for me to repeat the medical evidence it in detail here - the parties are 
familiar with it. Im satisfied by that evidence that Mr B was incapacitated from performing his 
usual occupation during the 28-week waiting period.
I do accept that Mr Bs mental health fluctuated during this period. For example, his 
psychiatrist, whom Ill refer to as Dr E, wrote that he was depressed and unfit for work in 
October and November 2020 but in December there were early signs of improvement. 
However Dr E reported that in January Mr Bs mood dipped again and she wrote that he had 
not fully recovered from his depressive illness. Im not minded to find that any temporary 
improvement is evidence that Mr Bs was able to return to work during the waiting period.
Mr B was signed off work by his GP throughout the period and beyond. I note that the 
reason given was stress related problem, until 1 April 2021 when the sick note was issued 
for depressive disorder. Of course stress isnt an illness, so if Mr B was suffering from 
stress alone I could understand why Generali would feel that he didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. Its clear that Mr B was suffering with stress and anxiety in relation 
tohis work but that isnt the whole picture. The totality of evidence doesnt support the 
conclusion that he wasnt incapacitated during the wating period, or that his depressive 
illness ceased at the end of it. Dr Es evidence is that she considered that Mr B was suffering 
from a depressive illness which incapacitated him from work. This is corroborated by his GP 
who provided fit notes signing Mr B off work.
Generali accepts that as well as being under the care of a psychiatrist, Dr E, Mr B was also 
having weekly sessions with a psychotherapist and was prescribed antidepressant 
medication as well as medication for his neurodiverse condition. This is further corroborative 
evidence that he was being treated for illness as opposed to work related stress.
Treatment alone though wouldnt be sufficient to demonstrate that Mr B was incapacitated 
from his sedentary role as a manager. However reports were also made by Occupational 
Health (OH) together with a vocational rehabilitation (VR) assessment. The February 2021 
OH report found that Mr B was not able to work due to his symptoms but that a phased 
return to work, with adjustments, could be considered in April 2021. A report in April 2021 
said that Mr B remained off work due to depression, anxiety and his neurodiverse condition, 
ADHD. The VR assessment commissioned by Generali was conducted at the end of 
May2021 to understand Mr Bs functionality to return to work. It concluded that Mr B would 
require a further period of recovery before being able to consider a return to work.
Gererali has expressed concerns about the self-reporting of symptoms. This does seem 
rather unfair to me. Mr B has been open and honest about his condition and the effects it 
has on his well-being, his health and his daily life. He was asked to give this detail in the 
claim form. It is understandable that he would report the effects of his illness to his GP and 
other professionals when asked. His reporting of the impact his condition had on his ability to 
make decisions, to focus and carry out his role accords with the independent evidence and 
his reporting has been consistent. I find it to be credible. Importantly it is corroborated by 
professionals and clinicians.
It follows that for the reasons given I am provisionally satisfied that Mr Bs claim should have 
been admitted at the end of the deferred period. There is evidence that Mr B continued to be 
incapacitated but I have not assessed to what date or if the claim should be ongoing. This is 
because I understand that further evidence has been submitted to Generali relating to this 
period. So I am minded to require Generali to admit Mr Bs claim and reassess the evidence 
past the end of the waiting period - April 2021 - together with the new evidence supplied.
Mr B also complained that Generali used insensitive language. I dont find that it did. But I 
provisionally find that that decline of this claim, which should have been admitted, has 
impacted Mr B and had a negative impact on his mental and physical health. I am minded to 
find that compensation is merited and to conclude that £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Mr B responded in detail to my provisional decision. In summary he felt that that past 18 
months of his life would have gone differently if his claim had been admitted, and he 
explained why.
Generali didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter and have considered the impact 
the claim decline had on his health. 
I have re-visited the language that Mr B felt was insensitive. I should point out that it is not for this service to regulate or punish insurers. But in any event, I dont find the comments 
made to Mr Bs employer in particular, or other comments made, were insensitive. This was 
a complicated case and Generali explained its reasons for the decline at the time.
Nevertheless I felt that an award of compensation was due and I remain of that opinion. Im 
not persuaded to change my provisional finding that £250 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
As Generali has not responded I see not reason to change my provisional findings, which I 
adopt here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Assicurazioni Generali SpA should:
Admit Mr Bs claim from the end of the deferred period and reassess in the light of 
any new evidence.
Add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to any benefit payment that Mr B should 
have received from the date the payment should have been made until settlement.
Pay Mr B £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman