DRN-4020842
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to take out a loan 
which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr W says he took out the Shawbrook loan in 2019 for £8,000. He says the borrowing was 
unaffordable and the application should not have been approved. Mr W says he was in 
significant debt at the time and would like interest as well as the capital refunded with 8% 
interest added to any refund.
Shawbrook says it carried out appropriate checks on the application. It says Mr W declared 
an income of just under £50,000 a year and checked his existing debt. Shawbrook says Mr 
W passed all of its affordability checks and he continued to make required repayments.
Mr W brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Shawbrook carried out appropriate checks on the application and didnt think there 
was any adverse information on Mr Ws credit file it should have considered about it. The 
investigator thought Mr W was re-financing existing debt at what was likely to be a lower 
interest rate.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he had a number of other types of debt and that the 
loan interest rate wasnt lower than an overdraft rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
loan or credit application to ensure affordability. Those checks will vary depending on the 
type and amount of such lending and for example I would not expect the checks here to 
have been as detailed as for example for a mortgage application. But appropriate checks 
must be carried out.
I have looked carefully at the information Mr W supplied in his loan application and the 
checks Shawbrook carried out. I can see Mr W declared an income of just under £50,000 a 
year in 2019 and having looked at his credit file I cant see any adverse information on it 
such as late, missed payments or defaults. I can see Shawbrook also checked Mr Ws credit 
file and carried out affordability checks based on his existing debt which did not raise any 
concerns about repayment or affordability. I dont think Mr Ws credit file has any information 
on it that would have raised concerns
So, Im satisfied Shawbrook did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ws 
loan application and that there was no information that ought to have been considered that 
would have raised any affordability issues. Im also satisfied that Mr Ws credit file was 
recorded as fair and that he made all required loan repayments. I think that provides 
additional evidence that the loan was on the face of it affordable. I also agree with the 
investigator that Mr W was re-financing his existing debt and the loan interest rate is likely to 
have been significantly lower than an overdraft interest rate.
As Im satisfied appropriate checks were carried out by Shawbrook then it follows that I cant 
fairly order it refund any interest. I make clear to Mr W that we would not normally order 
capital repayments be refunded in any event. I say that as I can see Mr W would have liked 
those payments refunded as well.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman