DRN-3350370
The complaint
Mr G complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited allowed an unknown third 
party to take out a store card in his name. Hes unhappy that hes now being pursued for the 
associated debt and that his credit file has been affected. 
What happened
A store card was taken out in Mr Gs name in February 2017. The card was used in store on 
the day of application to purchase a clothes airer for £36.99. 
Mr G complained to Home Retail Group in August 2021, having been contacted by a debt 
collection agency about the associated debt. Mr G said the store card had not been taken 
out by him and that he was now being unfairly chased for the associated debt. He also 
complained that Home Retail Group had not contacted him about the account. He told Home 
Retail Group that hed moved from the address on the account in November 2017.
Home Retail Group investigated Mr Gs concerns but found no evidence the account had 
been set up fraudulently. It also confirmed monthly statements had been sent to Mr G. 
Mr G disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. He said he was living in shared 
accommodation at the time the account was taken out and he doesnt know who took it out. 
He noted the signature on the application looked similar to his. He told us hed changed 
address in April 2017. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He wasnt persuaded, based 
on the available evidence, that Mr G had been the victim of identity theft. The account had 
been set up using his correct details, including his address. He noted that the use of the 
store card didnt follow a pattern hed expect to see if it had been taken out fraudulently. The 
store card account had only been used once, for a single domestic item, and it only utilised a 
fraction of the available credit. He thought it was more likely that Mr G had opened the 
account himself and simply forgotten to repay it. As such he didnt think Home Retail Group 
was acting unfairly by pursuing him for the associated debt or recording information on his 
credit file. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for a final decision. He maintained that the account wasnt 
opened by him and noted Home Retail Group didnt have a copy of his ID from the time the 
account was opened. He also challenged that the signature provided was his. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but I cant say Home Retail 
Group has acted unfairly. Ill explain why.  
While Mr G denies setting up the account in his name, the evidence doesnt demonstrate 
that the account was set up fraudulently. 
I think its significant that the account was set up in a store that was local to Mr G. Mr G has 
confirmed that the address used on the account was his home address until either April or 
November 2017. An email Mr G has registered with our service also appears to have been 
given when the account was set up. 
Home Retail Group has also demonstrated that monthly account statements, as well as 
statutory arrears notices, were sent to the address Mr G was previously living at, between 
March 2017 and February 2019. These letters were all addressed to Mr G. While I 
appreciate Mr G may not have received letters sent after he moved from this address, I think 
its more likely than not hed have received one or more of the other letters addressed to 
him. These letters made it clear that an account had been taken out in Mr Gs name and that 
an amount was owing. 
I think its also significant that the account was used once to purchase a small, low value 
item and the remainder of the credit was not utilised. This doesnt fit the usual pattern Id 
expect to see if someone was seeking to fraudulently take out credit in someone elses 
name. 
In the circumstances, and based on the evidence available, I cant say Home Retail Group 
has acted unfairly by deciding that Mr G was responsible for taking out the account. As such, 
Im satisfied it was also entitled to pursue him for the debt and report information to his credit 
file.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman