DRN-2838708
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way a claim for subsidence on his home insurance policy was 
handled by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas).
What happened
This complaint was brought by Mr F and Ms F on behalf of a relative, Mr F, who sadly died 
during the claims process. For simplicity Ill refer to Mr F throughout.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and largely not in dispute, so 
Ill only summarise it here. When I refer to Ageas I include its agents and contractors.
Mr F made a claim in April 2017 as hed observed cracks in his home. 
Site visits were undertaken to establish the cause and Ageas say it established there was 
damage to drains, consolidation and subsidence. 
Ageas covered the cost of repairs to some of the drains under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. Mr F engaged contractors to carry out works to other drains and, based 
on the reports from his contractors, feels Ageas should reimburse these costs. But Ageas 
disagrees and said repairs to these other drains werent covered as the issues with them 
were maintenance.
A cash settlement of £18,479.13 was offered by Ageas based on a schedule of works 
provided by its contractors for work to the house. This figure excluded VAT.
The property was sold in December 2019 before repairs to the house were carried out. 
Mr F isnt happy with the offer. Based on a survey hed commissioned he says a figure of 
£70,000 is required to complete all the works needed. He also says had all the structural 
work and repairs been completed he wouldve sold the property for a considerably higher 
amount. And says Ageas should pay a cash settlement based on the loss of value, this 
being £140,000.
Our investigator said it was fair for Ageas to offer a cash settlement under the terms of the 
policy, and in his view the settlement figure was reasonable. However, he also said Ageas 
ought to have done more in relation to the drainage costs. And said Ageas should pay 
£7,710 plus 8% simple interest from the date Ageas declined the claim, less any excess 
under the accidental damage section of the policy.
Ageas did not accept our investigators view. It said some of the work carried out to the 
drains was betterment, and therefore Mr Fs responsibility, and drains to the rear of the 
property were not covered as the issues related to maintenance.
Mr F also remained unhappy, he felt Ageas should pay the difference between the sale price 
achieved and what the value wouldve been had all the repairs been carried out.
Both parties asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive considered these 
and have read everything hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So, if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I 
hope Mr F doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
I also appreciate this has been a difficult period, and whilst some time has passed, Id like to 
offer my condolences to Mr Fs family. 
There is some disagreement as to why the claim didnt progress faster. From my review of 
the file both parties couldve helped the claim progress and it reached a point where Mr F 
sold the property, over 2 years after the claim was first made, which wasnt unreasonable. 
The repairs hadnt been carried out when the sale went through, but I cant fairly say this 
was entirely as a result of the way Ageas handled the claim. And Im not persuaded the 
decision to sell the property was as a result of the claim not being settled. Ive seen in his 
submission to us Mr F says he had requested a cash settlement.
Ive seen a report provided by Mr F from a Chartered Surveyor and it says the value for IHT 
purposes in March 2018 was £350,000. The report also says based on their knowledge and 
comparable evidence the value wouldve been in region of £500,000 if all that was required 
was modernisation and there were no structural works.
The surveyors visited the property again in November 2019 and said the property had been 
marketed and a sale achieved at £390,000. It went on to say that from comparable evidence 
it could be argued the value would be in the region of £530,000 if all that was required was 
modernisation and no structural works. 
Whilst the property may have been sold for less than it wouldve fetched if repairs had been 
carried out the issue I have to consider is whether Ageas have acted reasonably. The policy 
says:
How your claim will be settled
We will settle your claim by either:
Replacing, repairing or rebuilding items (depending on which will be most cost effective), 
or
Paying you their cash equivalent, based on what it would cost us to replace the item(s).
We will decide which option is most appropriate.
However, they will not pay more than the limit shown in the policy schedule/statement of 
fact or policy booklet.
If your property is only partly damaged, we will pay for it to be repaired as long as the 
repair is actually done. If you choose not to have the repair done (because you decide 
you want to replace this item with something else, for example), we will pay for one of the 
following, whichever is the lowest:
The amount by which the property has gone down in value as a result of the damage, or
The estimated cost of the repair.I find it clear that the policy terms allow a cash settlement and Im satisfied Mr F had wanted 
a cash settlement rather than have repairs to the property. And the policy terms are clear 
that it will only pay the lower of the amount the property has gone down in value or the 
estimated cost of repairs. The estimated cost of repairs is lower than the estimated loss in 
value and, in the circumstances of this case, its unreasonable to expect Ageas to pay more 
than the repair costs. 
Im satisfied that the schedule of works is comprehensive and covers the works necessary to 
repair the damage caused by the subsidence to the property. Mr F believes additional works 
to a conservatory and utility are required. But, on balance Im not persuaded this is the case. 
Ive seen comments about the age of the conservatory and that it was at the end of its 
normal lifespan.  And whilst Mr F wishes additional works to be included to the house I dont 
agree, the insurance policy is only intended to repair damage caused by an insured event 
and not to enhance the property.
Ageas are required to pay repair costs for the damage caused by the subsidence, and whilst 
they were responsible for some delays before Mr F sold the property, I find it 
disproportionate to expect it to pay the figures Mr F has quoted based on a higher potential 
valuation. It didnt have a reasonable opportunity to complete repairs as the extent of the 
work was still in dispute, and there were periods when Mr F had asked that works were not 
carried out.  A cash settlement is allowed and has been offered which fulfils its obligations in 
respect of this element of the claim. And Ageas should pay £18,479.13 unless it has done so 
already.  
In respect of the drains I agree with our investigators conclusion. Im satisfied the weight of 
evidence indicates the work carried out by Mr Fs contractors was reasonable and covered 
under the policy. And Ageas should pay £7,710 less any policy excess for accidental 
damage if it hasnt already done so. 
Ive explained that whilst Ageas is not solely responsible for the delays, I find it has caused 
some inconvenience to Mr F, and Ive considered if a payment should be made for the 
distress and inconvenience. However, such payments can only be made to a customer, not 
a representative and therefore Im not making an award in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im upholding this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to pay £7,710 less any policy excess for accidental damage if it hasnt already done 
so. It should also pay 8% simple interest from the date Ageas declined to cover these costs.
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms F and 
the estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman