DRN-3400003
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments made 
from her account which she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Miss B has said that in November 2020 at around 7pm, she received a telephone call from a 
fraudster purporting to be from Halifax. The fraudster questioned Miss B on some attempted 
transactions on her account, which she confirmed werent her. Miss B was told her account 
was at risk and that a new account would therefore need to be set up to transfer her funds 
to. Miss B has said the fraudster knew information about her, such as what credit cards she 
held, previous scams shed fallen victim to and was also able to call on her home phone, 
which she was led to believe was for security purposes. Miss B has said the fraudster asked 
her some verification questions, such as her middle name and for her old online banking 
password but she couldnt recall this piece of information. Miss B says at times in the call 
she was asked for codes that shed received to her phone, which she provided, believing this 
was part of the process for setting up the new accounts. Miss B says in total, she was on the 
phone for around three to four hours.
Miss B said she was told to expect a call the following day confirming the account was set 
up. However the following day Miss B says she received texts from Halifax confirming she 
was in her overdraft, followed by an email confirming a loan had been approved. Concerned 
by these messages, Miss B called Halifax, at which point she became aware the previous 
caller was in fact a fraudster and that several payments, totalling around £14,000 had been 
made from her account, as well as an unsuccessful loan application and therefore raised a 
fraud claim.
Halifax investigated Miss Bs claim but declined to refund her. It said that it called Miss B on 
her mobile phone number and spoke to an individual it believes to be Miss B and that this 
individual, when asked, was able to log into Miss Bs mobile banking app, using biometrics 
such as finger print or facial ID to provide information requested. The individual Halifax 
spoke to confirmed the payment was being made to her brother.
Miss B disputes that this was her on the phone. During our investigations shes maintained 
that during the scam, she never downloaded any software on her computer or phone. While 
Miss B initially said she didnt provide the fraudster with any account passwords, she later 
suggested she may have provided an old password but not a current one. Miss B also 
initially said that at no point during the scam did her phone screen go blank, but later advised 
it did while speaking to the fraudster.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss B is adamant she didnt give anyone 
her passwords, or download any software that would provide remote access to her banking, 
our investigator concluded the transaction must have been authorised by Miss B.
Miss B disagreed with the outcome, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times.
Of particular relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), 
which apply to transfers like the ones made from Miss Bs account. Ive considered the 
relevant provisions of the PSRs alongside the contractual terms and conditions of Miss Bs 
account.
Taking those into account there are two key questions relevant to my consideration: 
1. Were the transactions authorised by Miss B; and 
2. If they werent, did Miss B fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with her 
obligations under the PSRs, to comply with the terms and conditions of the account, or to 
keep the personalised security details safe? 
If I find Miss B made, or otherwise authorised the transaction, I dont need to consider point 
2 above.
Halifax has provided all login records for Miss Bs online banking. These show that Miss Bs 
account was logged into using a computer browser, and that there were no failed login 
attempts or account security information changes. Based on the audit trail evidence Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that whoever logged onto Miss Bs banking had the correct login 
credentials to do so. Halifax also identified the IP address used for the disputed transactions 
was the same area Miss B lives in and the same internet provider as hers. 
When attempting to make the first payment, Lloyds made an automated call to Miss Bs 
home phone number to verify the payment before allowing it to be processed. One of these 
questions was requesting Miss B to confirm whether her bank had called her and told her to 
move money to another account. This was answered no. Miss B has confirmed she was at 
her home at the time of the scam, as she has confirmed the fraudster called her also on her 
home phone number. I therefore think its most likely it was her that answered this call and 
responded to the questions asked by Halifax.
The payment was stopped for further checks and Miss B was sent a text message to her 
mobile phone number, requesting she calls Halifax. Halifax has provided a copy of the call it 
had with a lady it believes to be Miss B, although Miss B disputes this. While I agree the 
voice of the caller does sound similar to other genuine calls Ive listened to between Miss B 
and Halifax, I dont intend to make a finding on whether I think the caller was Miss B on this 
basis alone. Ive therefore considered other elements of the call to consider whether I think 
its plausible that this couldve been a fraudster.
Halifaxs records confirm the call was made from Miss Bs own mobile phone number. Miss 
B has confirmed she had her phone as she was using it to speak to the fraudsters. From her 
testimony and from Halifaxs fraud detection processes, theres nothing to suggest the phone 
had been tampered with, such as any sim card swaps. During the call, Halifax asks for Miss 
B to login to her mobile banking app for security. The caller confirms shell put Halifax on 
loudspeaker while she does so, then confirms the banking app is authenticating. From 
reviewing Halifaxs audit trails, I can see this matches with Miss Bs online banking movements. There are no silences, or realistic timeframes in this call where I think the caller 
could have advised Miss B in a separate conversation to login to her online banking.
Later in the call Miss B was sent a code to her mobile phone and asked to provide the code 
to the Halifax advisor. Again the caller was able to do this within seconds. If the caller wasnt 
Miss B, I cant see a plausible explanation for how the caller was able to obtain this code 
from Miss B and pass it on to Halifax without hesitation, especially considering, as Ive 
covered, that Miss B hadnt downloaded any remote access software to her phone and there 
were no signs of phone tampering. The Halifax advisor warned the caller about a number of 
prevalent scams, before allowing the payment to be processed.
Following this, two other successful payments were made from Miss Bs account to clear the 
balance. Several more were unsuccessfully attempted. A loan application was also made in 
Miss Bs name which was unsuccessful (despite Miss B advising shes received a text 
message confirming a loan application had been successful).
Halifax received further calls from Miss Bs mobile phone number that evening regarding 
blocked payments on her credit card. Again Miss B was able to log on to her mobile banking 
during these calls, using the same mobile device as the one Halifax received calls from.
Miss B has stated she didnt logon to her laptop on the evening she alleges she was 
scammed, and has said she was out for dinner with a friend. When questioned by the 
investigator on how she was able to answer her home phone to the scammer, Miss B 
advised she went out for dinner after the scam took place, although based on her 
recollections, this would mean shed have left home at around 10-11pm which appears 
unlikely.
In summary, Miss B hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how a fraudster would be 
able to access her online banking, or hack her mobile phone. The evidence provided by Miss 
B regarding the provision of passwords and being presented with a blank phone screen 
during the scam are inconsistent and Im therefore not persuaded on the reliability of this 
testimony. Even if I consider the caller who spoke to Halifax may not have been Miss B, 
theres still no plausible explanation for how a fraudster wouldve been able to call Halifax 
from Miss Bs mobile number, or provide information so readily to Halifax that was sent to 
Miss Bs mobile phone. 
It therefore seems to me beyond reasonable doubt that the transactions in dispute were 
carried out by Miss B or someone she authorised to do so on her behalf. There are 
situations where we might expect a bank to reimburse its customers where theyve been the 
victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. However, Miss B has maintained 
throughout the complaint that this isnt the case here and that she didnt authorise the 
transactions. In the circumstances of this complaint, as Miss Bs submissions dont align with 
other available evidence, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask Halifax to 
refund the transactions on this basis, and so I make no award against it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Kirsty UptonOmbudsman