DRN-3639940
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have failed to refund over 
£35,000 he says he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will briefly summarise the facts and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Mr S says he fell victim to an investment scam in October 2016, where collectively he made 
payments of over £35,000 to three merchants (Bank De Binary, 24Option and 
72Option). He asked Halifax to refund the money, but the bank refused as it said Mr S had 
authorised the payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence 
to suggest that Bank De Binary and 24 Option were operating a scam at the time he made 
the payments, and while 72 Option did appear to be fraudulent, he didnt think the payments 
were so unusual that they ought to have triggered an intervention by Halifax. Mr S 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty 
to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But 
the obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only 
reasonably have been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the 
payee was a fraudster.
So, I would need to be satisfied that the merchants were all operating a scam at the 
time Mr S made the payments around October 2016 in order to expect Halifax to 
have done anything further here. However, Im not persuaded that Banc De Binary or 
24 Option can be said to have been operating a scam at this time. I appreciate that 
Mr S considers them to be frauudlent, and I accept that these merchants have since 
had their authority withdrawn by the relevant regulators. But in October 2016 there 
were no warnings placed on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) watchlist, for 
example, and I note they were licensed with the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Comission (CySEC) to trade in the European Union at the time.
So, even if Halifax had issued Mr S with a scam warning and told him to undertake 
further checks into these merchants in October 2016, Im not persuaded he would 
have come across anything that wouldve made him think they were operating 
fraudulently, particularly as they were licensed to operate by CySEC at the time. 
In terms of 72 Option, I appreciate there is more evidence to suggest that this 
merchant was operating a scam at the time, albeit a warning was not published on 
the IOSCO investor alerts portal until 13 December 2016  i.e. after Mr S had made 
his payments to them  so I wouldnt have expected Halifax to have automatically 
blocked them in October 2016. 
Ive nevertheless considered whether Halifax should have taken a closer look at the 
payments being made to 72 Option by virtue of them appearing unusual or out of 
character. But I dont think there was anything particularly unusual about the 
payments being made that ought to have prompted an intervention. The payments 
Mr S made to 72 Option were not paid in one single large transaction, for example. 
They were spread out over separate smaller increments (of around £5,000) which, in 
my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr Ss spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded 
as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
For example, I can see from Mr Ss statements that he had previously made 
payments larger than £5,000 from his Halifax debit card within 12 months prior to the 
disputed transactions. So, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought 
reasonably to have triggered Halifaxs fraud monitoring systems, or that would have 
indicated he was in the process of being scammed.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card 
can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback 
is a voluntary scheme run by card providers such as Visa and Mastercard. That 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to 
pursue matters to final arbitration if there was no prospect of success. In this 
instance, Mr S disputed the payments over four years after he had made them, which 
would have far exceeded the time limits set by the card provider for making a claim. 
As a result, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback 
claim for Mr S.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear about the 
money he has lost. However, in the circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Halifax liable for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman