DRN-3352665
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc gave incorrect information about a 
business current account when it was opened and provided poor service.
What happened
L opened an account in 2017. The director explains he wanted to pay in cash in a branch. 
And that L paid a fee of £12.50 per month so it could pay in up to £3,000. In June 2021 he 
went to a branch and was told he couldnt pay in cash at the counter but instead at an 
automated machine. He says he made calls from the branch, one of which was cut off, and 
was told that the account L had never allowed cash to be paid in at a branch. L was offered 
a replacement account and in the process was overcharged by and then refunded £19.50. L 
says it has been paying an extra £5 per month for an account that didnt provide what it was 
promised and wants a refund.
Santander said in its final response that while it didnt dispute what L was told in 2017 the 
information was incorrect. It also said that there had been no requirement for it to make L 
aware of a new product when this was introduced in October 2018. It apologised for the poor 
service including a call being disconnected and the branch response. It paid L £75 in 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander do anything more. It had further said to 
this service that the account was sold on an unadvised basis. Hed looked at the terms and 
conditions of the account L opened. The extra £5 per month L referred to allowed additional 
cash deposits up to £3,000 and not the ability to use the counter service. A fee of £7.50 
would have allowed note deposits up to £1,000 -  but again only through an automated 
machine. It wasnt a requirement for Santander to tell L about the new account when it was 
available from October 2018. The compensation was fair for the service issues.
L didnt agree. It was unhappy at the time spent to resolve this. The director said that he was 
at the branch when originally offered the account and knew what happened. He was told he 
could deposit cash at the counter. He was then told in June 2021 that cash couldnt be 
accepted only then to be served when his account had been updated. L considered the 
service provided to be very poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L is right to say that I cant know what was said to the director in branch in 2017 when the 
account was opened. I would have expected L to receive a copy of the terms and conditions 
of the account. And it is right that as no advice was given it was a matter for L to decide 
whether the account was suitable. There was no requirement for Santander to tell L other 
than about changes to the terms of that account and not about any new products.
I appreciate the scope for misunderstanding. I listened to a call recording in which L was 
asked by a member of staff whether it had paid cash at the counter in branch before 2021. It 
referred to there being two branches for a time in the town where it did its banking. And that 
one branch did accept cash and the other didnt and that one of those branches is now 
closed. The director describes coming to pay in cash in a branch in June 2021 after a period 
of time and then being refused. L doesnt describe any problems before then. There seemed 
to be an element of discretion allowed.
The director was clearly unhappy to be refused service this time and about the way the 
branch approached this. And then to spend time on the phone, including being cut off and to 
go back to the same cashier and be served. I understand that. L now has an account that 
allows an amount of cash to be paid in before charges apply. There was an error with how 
that was set up and this needed L to request a refund of £19.50 which was paid.
Having balanced all the factors I dont agree that its reasonable for L to receive a refund of 
£5 per month over the period it had the account as it wants. As our investigator says the 
additional £5 per month it did pay for that product allowed for cash deposits of up to £3,000 
per month albeit at a cash machine for notes. And it seems the director raised no similar 
issues with the account before June 2021 and may have been able to pay in cash at a 
certain branch for L if he wanted. So, I dont think L has actually lost out even if it had been 
given incorrect information verbally at the time of sale. 
I need to decide whether the compensation for poor service for L the complainant here is 
reasonable. Ive considered our published guidelines and I know the director will be 
disappointed when I say that I think it was. So, I wont be requiring Santander to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that Santander UK Plc need 
take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman