DRN-2942044
The complaint
Ms K is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) recorded adverse markers in respect 
to a running account credit agreement she took out to pay for her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K took out a car insurance policy through UKI. She also entered into a separate finance 
agreement through UKI to enable her to pay the annual premium in monthly instalments. 
Ms K moved house during the policy term, so didnt receive the renewal invitation UKI sent 
saying it would automatically renew the insurance policy. So she didnt realise UKI renewed 
the insurance policy. As a result she took out another insurance policy, which was also 
through UKI.
UKI later sent her a text message to say her direct debit payment hadnt gone through. Ms K 
telephoned UKI who realised what had happened and said it would cancel the renewed 
policy and waive the outstanding amount payable on the finance agreement.
In March 2021 Ms K applied for a mortgage, but the application was declined. She reviewed 
her credit file and realised there were still adverse markers on her credit file from UKI. She 
contacted UKI to complain. UKI acknowledged its mistake and said it would arrange to 
remove the markers. But it said they wouldnt be off her record until 10 April 2021. It also 
offered her £500 in compensation.
On 6 April 2021, Ms K applied for the mortgage again, but it was again declined. She later 
applied for it again in June 2021 and the application was accepted. She says UKIs actions 
meant she lost out on a new house and had to remain in a property she didnt feel safe in.
Our investigator thought UKIs compensation offer was fair. She said it had taken swift 
actions to put things right and explained when the marker would be removed. And she 
thought £500 in compensation was fair compensation.
Ms K didnt accept the investigators opinion. She maintained UKI had caused her to lose out 
on a property and forced her to have to remain in a house she wasnt safe in.
As Ms K didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute UKI should have removed the adverse markers when Ms K first called to 
query why her policy had renewed. Its also accepted that this meant her initial mortgage 
application was declined. So I do not need to make a finding in respect to this. My role in this 
case is to assess whether UKI has taken fair steps to put things right. I think it has.
UKI immediately recognised the mistake it had made and contacted the credit reference 
agency to remove the adverse markers. It also explained to Ms K when the marker would be 
removed.
Ms K says she reapplied for the mortgage after UKI had said it had removed the marker. But 
she applied for this four days before UKI explained the credit reference agency would update 
the record. Ms K has explained she didnt reapply for the mortgage for another two months 
after that. 
Ms K has explained the significant impact that not being able to move house had on her. 
And I naturally sympathise with the situation she was in. But I also have to take into account 
that Ms K also had a duty to mitigate her own losses. And I think she could have continually 
checked her credit file to see when the marker was removed. Had she done so, she would 
have known sooner that the marker had been removed and could have applied for the 
mortgage sooner. She was also told by UKI when the marker would be removed, but it 
seems she didnt reapply for the mortgage for two months after this.
Ultimately, UKI had the marker removed from her credit file in around two weeks from first 
becoming aware of its error. So I think it acted swiftly. That said, I recognise the severe 
impact this matter had on Ms K  especially given her personal situation. But UKI has 
already offered Ms K £500 in compensation. And this is in line with what I would have 
awarded. So I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that U K Insurance Limiteds compensation offer of £500 is fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused Ms K. it should pay this to her 
directly if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman