DRN-4016063
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to 
decline their claim for storm damage, under their home buildings insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim to RSA in November 2022 following the named storm, Claudio. 
They have a garden/gym room to the rear of their property connected to their house and 
garage. They told RSA that the strength of the storm winds caused the outer and front facing 
walls of this room to detach. They say the walls need to be rebuilt and are dangerous. 
RSA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Based on this inspection it declined their claim. 
It says it settled a previous claim from February 2022 involving the same area of the 
property. Although a partial repair was carried out to the damaged area it says this was 
inadequate and further damage has occurred over time. RSA says had the correct repairs 
been undertaken earlier this wouldve avoided the water ingress that its surveyor saw in the 
dining room. 
Mr and Mrs R say there was no mention of issues with the garden room walls when they 
claimed in February 2022. They say the doors and windows have been boarded up but not 
yet replaced as the previous pay-out wasnt enough to cover this work. Mr and Mrs R 
provided a letter from a builder that says the November 2022 storm caused the damage to 
the walls.
RSA didnt agree, so Mr and Mrs R referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold their complaint. She says although a storm had occurred, this wasnt the main 
cause of the damage. She thought RSAs surveyor had been clear that a natural breakdown 
of materials, deteriorated mortar and a lack of maintenance was the underlying cause of the 
damage. Our investigator says RSA had declined Mr and Mrs Rs claim fairly.  
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Let me explain.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for 
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
RSA doesnt dispute that storm conditions were experienced at the time of Mr and Mrs Rs 
loss. Ive checked the report from a weather station close to their home. It shows wind gusts 
up to 68mph were experienced. So, I think its reasonable to accept that there were storm 
conditions, and I can move on to the second question. 
The damage reported was to the garden room walls, which were said to have to moved as a 
result of the strength of the wind. The wind speeds reported were very strong and its 
possible for such winds to cause structural damage. So, Im satisfied the answer to question 
two is also yes. I note this isnt disputed by RSA.    
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. To understand whether this was the case Ive read the report provided by 
RSAs surveyor. This says:
On inspection of the garage, the damage is just an extension of a previous claim. The 
garage is in a dilapidated state. The garage is dropping to bits, the door frames are rotten, 
the roofline is rotten. The customer has advised of cracks and movement to the wall. The 
timber is rotten to the brickwork and this has allowed water to penetrate through. This is just 
a gradual operating cause
And:
On inspection of the dining, we have wet patches and stains to the walls. The customer 
advised there has been previous issues which was settled, and the customer hasn't carried 
out the repairs because he could [not] afford it.
Also:
On inspection of the garage, there is a crack in the brickwork, we however believe this 
should not be covered. The garage is dilapidated.
In her summary the surveyor concluded the following:
On inspection of the damage, we believe this is due to an extension from previous damage. 
The customer advised of a previous claim which was settled, however the repairs were not 
carried out due to the fact that he was not happy with the settlement, and he could not afford 
to have the external fixed. We recommend that the claim is declined due to deteriorated 
mortar works and natural breakdown of materials.
My understanding is the first part of the surveyors report refers to the garden room not the 
garage. The photos that were taken and attached to the report support this point. I think they 
also clearly show that the structure is in a deteriorated state. This includes the timber section 
of the roof, windows, and door frame. The mortar joints are deteriorated, and a gap is visible 
toward the top of the garden room wall next to the boundary with the neighbour. The photos 
support the surveyors findings that the structure is in a dilapidated state and that this had 
occurred gradually. 
The surveyors photos show the dampness to the dining room wall. The surveyor comments 
on the previous settlement for the claim in February 2022. And that repairs hadnt been carried out. In their submissions Mr and Mrs R confirm it was during the February claim that 
water was coming through into the dining room with relation to the external lead flashing in 
this area. 
Ive also read the letters provided by Mr and Mrs Rs builder. The first letter dated in 
February 2023 says the damage caused to the garden room walls was the direct result of 
storm Claudio. It says the two outer walls are damaged at the joins and are coming apart. Mr 
and Mrs R provided a second letter. In this the builder says it has had a further meeting with 
them following their claim for storm damage. The letter has the same date as the first, which 
I assume is an error. 
In this letter the builder says the damage is to the garden room not the garage as set out in 
our investigators findings. He reiterates his view that the damage caused to the two outer 
walls was caused by the sheer force of the storm. He says the building is in a southwest 
facing position and is extremely exposed since it is not protected by other buildings. The 
builder says the two walls are separating at the top where they join at a right angle. He says 
its not disputed that the windows and doors are dilapidated but that they do not hold up the 
walls. He says had the windows and doors been removed before the storm occurred the 
outer walls would be standing and solid. 
Mr and Mrs Rs builder concludes that the lack of maintenance isnt related to the cause of 
the damage, it was the force of the storm that caused it. 
I asked RSA to comment on the further points made by Mr and Mrs Rs builder. It responded 
to say its surveyor had provided the following comments:
This particular part of the dwelling is in a very poor state of repair and look[s] like it was 
never constructed correctly from the off; the most important part of any brickwork wall is the 
corner, and this corner 'pier' is simply butted up to it and neither toothed in nor tied in.
RSA says its surveyor also commented that the photos supporting the original report shows 
the issue with the wall, which is not in a good state of repair.
  
Im not a surveyor and must rely on the expert opinion of those who are. 
Having considered the surveyors report and the photos provided, Im more persuaded that 
the underlying cause of the damage is due to deteriorated state of the garden room 
structure, including the mortar. The surveyor also points to an incorrect construction method 
that was used with respect to the affected wall. 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms say:
5. Uninsurable risks
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or 
resulting from: 
 any damage which occurs over time as a result of normal use or ageing including fading, 
corrosion, rusting, decay or deterioration.
Also:
1. Your duty to prevent loss or damage
The insured must take steps to prevent loss of or damage to property which is covered by this insurance and to keep the property in good condition and in good repair.
I dont dispute that the strong winds likely caused movement to occur in the wall. But a well-
constructed and maintained building, in good condition, should be able to withstand storm 
force winds. I think RSAs view that the deteriorated state of the building allowed the strong 
winds to cause the damage is what most likely happened here. 
I think the terms are clear that gradual causes are excluded from cover. Based on this 
evidence, although Im sorry Mr and Mrs Rs home is damaged, Im satisfied RSA fairly 
declined their claim for the reasons it gave. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman