DRN-3415160
The complaint
Mr F complains about fees charged by IG Markets Limited trading as IG on his share dealing 
account.
What happened
Mr F received a statement of costs and charges for his account which showed fees of 
19,341 EUR that had been charged as Cost of investment service. 
Mr F complained to IG about the fees but they didnt uphold the complaint. They said the 
fees were for currency conversion and that information about this was on their website and 
in the Customer Agreement that Mr F had accepted. 
Remaining unhappy Mr F brought his complaint to our service where one of our Investigators 
looked into what happened. Our Investigator explained why the fees had been charged and 
where the information about them could be found. Overall they didnt think IG had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr F disagreed saying he wasnt aware of the fees and that he didnt think he was being 
treated fairly, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr F that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mr F as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint, which is that Mr F would like a refund of 
the fees. 
To begin Ive looked at the information provided by IG about their fee charging structure. 
Having done so I think the fees, and the situations in which they are charged, are made 
sufficiently clear to account holders on their website. Information about this is also in the 
Customer Agreement that IG say Mr F agreed to when opening the account.
Ive looked at what happened to Mr Fs account in February 2020 which caused the fees to 
be charged from that time onwards. Our Investigator went into a lot of detail about the 
change from ad-hoc to instant currency conversion and what this means, so I wont repeat 
things again here. Having looked at everything Im persuaded by the evidence that this 
wasnt a change made by IG as Mr F has said, and that such changes are made by account 
holders. 
Ive also looked at the fee charging structure for instant currency conversion trades and I 
think that the fees Mr F was charged were calculated correctly. IG have also explained that 
account holders are able to view the charges for trades in the transaction history section of 
the platform.
Finally Ive looked at the customer journey when placing a trade. IG has shown screen shots 
which show that before selecting Place order on a trade a message saying FX conversion 
fees apply appears with a link saying Learn More that provides information on the charges. 
This message and link also appears on the following screen before an account holder 
presses Confirm Order. 
IG give account holders two opportunities to find out about any possible fees before placing 
a trade. Alongside this information about the charges are on the website and in the 
Customer Agreement. Because of this Im satisfied that IG have acted fairly and reasonably 
when bringing the information to the attention of account holders and also when applying the 
charges. 
Mr F says he feels that IG have made something complex out of something that should be 
simple with how the instant currency conversion works and that the charges are illogical. Id 
like to be clear that its not my role to tell a business what policies and procedures they have 
in place around how products work. My role is to look at what happened and see if I think IG 
acted fairly and reasonably when applying the policies and procedures they do have in 
place. This is an important distinction. 
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied IG acted fairly and reasonably 
when applying the charges to Mr Fs account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman