DRN-2174843
The complaint
Mr P says Gain Credit LLC - trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr P between      
July and November 2019. A summary of Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 31/07/2019 03/02/2020 6 £400.00 £134.48
2 31/08/2019 05/02/2020 6 £740.00 £382.51
3 01/10/2019 03/02/2020 6 £100.00 £415.91
4 27/10/2019 03/02/2020 6 £150.00 £467.40
5 02/11/2019 03/02/2020 6 £150.00 £516.95
In its final response, Lending Stream offered to uphold loan 5. Mr P didnt accept this offer. 
Mr Ps complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think Lending 
Streams offer went far enough. So, they also upheld Mr Ps complaint about loan 4. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators assessment, but Mr P disagreed. He said the 
adverse information about all the loans should be removed because the fact he had a 
number of loans meant that they all became unaffordable to him. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Our adjudicator upheld loans 4 and 5. Lending 
Stream agreed with our adjudicators assessment. As Lending Stream has agreed with our 
assessment and Mr P hasnt given anything more for me to think about on these loans, I 
wont make any further findings on them. 
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators view because he wanted the adverse information 
removing from all the loans and not just the upheld loans. 
Ive thought about what Mr P has said, but loan providers have a duty to report accurate 
lending information. So, if we say a loan was approved properly, then it should stay on the 
credit report. 
Looking at all the information, I think Lending Stream did proportionate checks before 
lending Mr P loans 1, 2 and 3. There wasnt anything in the information Mr P provided at the 
time which would have given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable 
of Lending Stream to have relied on what Mr P gave it. I appreciate, from what Mr P has said, the information he declared to Lending Stream at the 
time of the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances. 
But I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the 
lending relationship, and what Lending Stream knew about Mr P, I wouldnt have expected 
Lending Stream to verify the information Mr P gave it. 
This therefore means, I cant say that Lending Stream did anything wrong in lending Mr P 
these loans. So, I wont be asking Lending Stream to do any more than its already agreed to 
do. And that includes asking it to remove any adverse information about loans 1, 2 and 3. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr P. But I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Putting things right
Lending Stream has offered to settle Mr Ps complaint about loan 4 and 5 by doing the 
following:
refund all interest and charges he paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit LLC 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put things right as Ive explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman