DRN-2656817
The complaint
Mr B complains about how British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) handled a claim he 
made under his HomeCare policy.
What happened
Mr B discovered a fault with his fridge freezer in September 2019, after the appliance made 
a loud popping sound. Mr B phoned British Gas and said there was smoke coming out of his 
fridge freezer. He unplugged the appliance from the power supply and the British Gas 
representative told Mr B over the phone that hed taken the necessary action to make the 
situation safe.
British Gas explained that the earliest it could get an engineer out to Mr B would be in four 
days time. Mr B was unhappy about this and wanted the fridge freezer looked at sooner. 
Because Mr B then mentioned he had medication stored in the fridge freezer, British Gas 
agreed to send an engineer round the next day. 
The engineer didnt visit as agreed the following day, and Mr B didnt hear from British Gas 
about the missed appointment. Mr B then went on holiday for two weeks. When he returned, 
an engineer visited his home and told Mr B the fridge freezer would need to be replaced. 
Mr B complained about the service hed received from British Gas. It offered him £50 initially 
but then increased this to £150 to say sorry for the trouble and upset itd caused. Mr B 
remained unhappy with British Gass offer and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He explained why he thought the offer from British Gas was fair. Because Mr B disagreed 
with our investigators opinion, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr B will be disappointed 
by this, but Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
Theres no dispute about what happened here. Mr B wanted his fridge freezer looked at as 
soon as possible and this is understandable. British Gas didnt send an engineer on 
1 October as it said it would. So Mr B only had the appliance assessed after he returned 
from holiday. British Gas has accepted that the level of service it provided fell below what its 
customers should expect. 
Ive considered the impact of what happened. Mr B went on holiday on 3 October and 
returned on 14 October. During this time, I dont think Mr B wouldve been significantly 
impacted by British Gas failing to send an engineer for a visit on 1 October. I say this 
because Mr B wouldve been able to store his medication safely with him on holiday.
Mr B has also told us that he had a small chiller, in which he stored food and medication. So 
Im satisfied he was able to use that to keep his medicine safe when he returned from 
holiday and during the time his fridge freezer wasnt working.
Mr B mentioned that he would sometimes host Christmas parties, and needed a working 
fridge freezer so he could store enough food for his guests. But I dont think that makes a 
difference to my decision, because an engineer was able to visit him on 25 October. And 
thats when Mr B was told the fridge freezer couldnt be repaired and hed need to buy a new 
one. 
Under the terms of Mr Bs policy with British Gas, he could get his kitchen appliances 
repaired or receive a contribution towards a replacement if an appliance couldnt be fixed. 
British Gas told Mr B at the beginning of November 2019 that itd pay him £191.64 as a 
contribution towards a replacement fridge freezer, and it said Mr B would receive his cheque 
for this amount within 28 days. So I think it met its obligation to repair or contribute to 
replacing under the policy. And as Mr B wouldve received his cheque some time before 
Christmas, I think he wouldve had sufficient time to purchase a replacement fridge freezer. 
While the parties agree that the service provided by British Gas wasnt adequate, I can see 
from the available evidence that Mr B didnt get in touch with British Gas when he returned 
from his holiday on 14 October 2019. The first time he spoke to British Gas to arrange 
another engineers visit was on 22 October 2019 and a visit was arranged for 25 October 
2019. So I dont think Mr B considered it to be an urgent matter, because if he had, I 
wouldve expected him to get in touch with British Gas much sooner after his return from 
holiday.
British Gas offered £150 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. For the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think the impact of British Gass errors on Mr B was significant, so I 
think the amount offered is reasonable and I wont be requiring British Gas to do anything 
further.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman