DRN-3296343
The complaint
Miss H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her claim against her group private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss H is a member of a group private medical insurance policy 
via her employer.
Unfortunately, in February 2021, Miss H was involved in a serious accident. She was 
admitted to hospital as an emergency and had surgery the following day. Miss H 
remained in hospital for 15 nights. 
In March 2021, Miss H contacted Aviva about a claim for the NHS cash benefit. Aviva 
declined Miss Hs claim. It said that Miss Hs claim didnt come within the terms of her  
membership. It referred to the 6 week rule chosen by her employer, which it said 
means that Miss H isnt covered for treatment or the NHS cash benefit if the treatment is 
available on the NHS within six weeks from the date a specialist recommends it. Aviva 
said that as Miss H was admitted as an emergency, treatment was available 
immediately, so the six week rule isnt satisfied. 
Miss H says that, in accordance with the summary of cover, shes entitled to the NHS 
cash benefit for 12 of her 15 nights stay in hospital. She wants Aviva to pay her £200 per 
night for 12 nights. Miss H also complained about the sale of the policy.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that this service 
couldnt look at Miss Hs concerns about the sale of the policy, as she is the beneficiary 
of a group policy, not the policyholder. The investigator thought that Aviva had declined 
Miss Hs claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Miss Hs membership.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. She said:
Theres a discrepancy between the terms and conditions and the summary and 
the latter is misleading and unfair. 
A member would look first at the summary to see whats covered. 
Aviva has changed the summary for 2022 and its now clear that the cash benefit 
isnt available following an emergency admission. 
The investigator considered what Miss H said but it didnt change her view. Miss H 
asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant membership terms and conditions
Miss Hs membership provides for £200 per night NHS cash benefit,
 For each night spent undergoing eligible NHS in-patient treatment; up to 35 nights per 
insured person per one year period of cover; see benefit terms 9 and 13
Benefit terms
[]
9. Benefit I (NHS cash benefit) will not be available:
[]
for the first three nights following an accident or emergency admission, []
13. [] benefit I (NHS cash benefit) will only be available if that treatment is not available 
[] to you as an NHS patient within 6 weeks after the date on which the specialist 
recommends that treatment (at or following a consultation between you and that 
specialist). The NHS waiting period must be determined and advised by the specialist in 
charge of your treatment. Treatment required as part of an accident or emergency 
admission is not covered.
An accident or emergency admission is defined as,
An admission to:
 hospital directly following an accident
 a hospital ward directly from the emergency department for urgent or unplanned 
treatment, or
 a hospital ward on the same day as a referral for treatment is made either by a GP or 
specialist, when immediate treatment or diagnostic tests are medically necessary.
The summary of cover includes the following:
This summary has been designed to provide you with the key information about the product 
and it is important that you read this section. The summary does not, however, contain the 
full standard terms and conditions that apply to the product. These are contained in the 
policy wording, a copy is available from your group administrator.[]
Please note that in-patient and day-patient benefit, including accident or emergency 
admissions, is not available if the NHS waiting list for your treatment is less than six weeks.
Additional benefits
[]
Cash benefit of £200 per night where eligible NHS in-patient treatment takes place as 
an NHS patient without charge. Benefit is limited to 35 nights. Cash benefit is not
payable where you have been admitted to an NHS hospital as a fee-paying patient of 
any kind, for the first three nights following an accident or emergency admission, for
cancer treatment, or if you claim for the cost of an NHS amenity bed for the same 
treatment.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Miss Hs  complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:
As the investigator explained, this service cant consider Miss Hs concerns about the 
sale of the policy, as shes a member of a group private medical insurance policy; 
Miss Hs employer is the policyholder. 
The NHS cash benefit is only payable for eligible NHS in-patient treatment (my 
emphasis). Miss Hs treatment wasnt eligible treatment because it was available as 
an NHS patient within six weeks after the date on which the specialist recommended 
it.
Miss H has referred to the summary of cover. At the top of that document it says that 
the summary doesnt contain the full standard terms and conditions that apply. 
The summary doesnt extend Miss Hs cover. Miss Hs cover is determined by the 
membership terms, the relevant parts of which Ive set out above. 
In any event, the summary refers to eligible NHS in-patient treatment (my 
emphasis). I dont think that the summary contradicts the membership terms or was 
misleading. As Ive said, Miss Hs treatment wasnt eligible treatment under the terms 
of her membership.
Essentially, Miss H says that as the summary of cover refers to an exclusion of NHS 
cash benefit for the first three nights following an accident and emergency admission, 
subsequent nights must be covered. Im afraid thats not the case. The NHS cash 
benefit only applies to eligible treatment. 
Miss H says that Aviva has now changed the summary of cover and omitted 
reference to the for the first three nights, which shows that the earlier summary 
was wrong and unfair. Miss H didnt raise this as part of her original complaint to 
Aviva, as the change to the summary happened after her complaint. So, Aviva hasnt 
had an opportunity to respond to that point. That means that I cant consider this 
matter as part of this complaint. But I will say that a subsequent change in the 
summary doesnt alter the terms of Miss Hs membership, which dont include the 
NHS cash benefit in the circumstances which arose here.  
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Aviva treated Miss H unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman