DRN-3832838
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), wont refund the money he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
Mr W is making his complaint with the assistance of a representative. To make my decision 
easier to read, I refer only to Mr W. I do this even where it was his representative rather than 
Mr W who said or provided something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr W fell victim to a scam when purchasing what he thought was a legitimate 
car. 
Mr W identified the car through a well-known online car selling website. Mr W says the 
vehicle in question was at a reasonable price and it wasnt too good to be true. Mr W also 
recalls there were lots of pictures where he could see the car. He says he had good friendly 
communications with the seller who explained that payment for the car had to be made via 
bank transfer. He says there wasnt an option to view the car, but he was satisfied everything 
was ok as he had also been told that he could return the car if he wasnt satisfied with it. The 
car was to be delivered to Mr W by a transport / delivery company  whom Ill refer to as 
Company D. 
On 8 November 2016, Mr W made a payment for £5,690 to purchase the car. HSBC has 
confirmed this payment was made in branch.
After several days, and having not received the car, Mr W says he tried to get in touch with 
the seller but received no response. 
Unfortunately this was a sophisticated scam. There was no car for sale and Company D, 
whom Mr W thought he was dealing with and paying, was in fact likely a clone of a genuine 
transport company. So Mr W had sadly paid money to fraudsters. 
Mr W says he raised the matter to HSBC shortly after realising he was the victim of a scam. 
He says he was told there was nothing HSBC could do as he had authorised the payment. 
Mr W then raised the matter again in February 2020  and received correspondence from 
HSBC advising that it was unable to provide reimbursement as he had authorised the 
payment and it had followed its legal obligations to make the payment in accordance with his 
instructions.
Mr W then formally complained to HSBC about the matter in September 2022. 
HSBC investigated Mr Ws complaint and provided its final response on 14 September 2022. 
It declined to refund Mr W the money he had lost. In short it explained that a car purchase 
isnt necessarily an unusual purchase and at the time the payment was made (2016) the 
onus was on the customer to check the legitimacy of the purchase and verify the goods prior 
to making payment. It also advised that the payment was made in branch and there wasnt 
any records or information to what may or may not have been discussed when the payment 
was made. And as the payment was made prior to the introduction of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), it didnt accept any liability for the loss and didnt 
conclude there was any evidence to suggest any bank error when processing the payment. 
Within HSBCs letter it advised Mr W that he could refer the matter to our service if he 
remained unhappy. Mr W subsequently brought his complaint to us. 
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Due to 
the time that had passed they didnt find it unreasonable that there wasnt any record of what 
was discussed. But they also considered that as Mr W was paying what he thought was a 
genuine company it wouldnt have raised any suspicions if HSBC had questioned Mr W. 
As Mr W disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr Ws losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. Mr W was a victim of a sophisticated cruel 
scam and lost a significant amount of money. But in weighing everything up, I dont think I 
can fairly say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
First, I note Mr W has referenced HSBCs obligations under the CRM Code. The CRM Code 
was implemented in May 2019  but it isnt retrospective. As Mr Ws payment was made in 
November 2016  it means the CRM Code isnt applicable in this case.
The relevant regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. It is the case that Mr W authorised the payment / transfer that is in dispute  and thats 
accepted by all parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which are the 
relevant regulations in place here) that means Mr W is responsible for it. 
That remains the case even though Mr W was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
But that isnt the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
What does this mean for Mr W?
Given the above, I would normally look to see first, whether Mr Ws transaction was unusual 
and out character. And second, whether HSBC should have stepped in and intervened  so 
taking some additional steps or checks with Mr W about the payment. But, and importantly, I 
have to determine whether these additional checks or steps would have put HSBC on notice 
that something might not be right, and that Mr W may be at risk of financial harm or revealed 
the scam.
HSBC has confirmed its records show Mr W transferred £5,690 to a new payee  in branch. 
Due to the passing of time  there are no notes about the payment or what was potentially 
discussed. However HSBC has also confirmed that the transfer didnt flag on its fraud 
detection system, and it would have likely asked basic questions about the payment. Our 
Investigator, given the payment was made in 2016, didnt consider a one-off payment for the 
purchase of a car was necessarily unusual or out of character  especially as Mr W had 
received a large incoming credit prior to making the payment. 
In this case, there was some debate over whether the payment should have prompted 
further questioning or intervention from HSBC. I think this is finely balanced. However even if 
I were to conclude that the transaction could possibly be considered as unusual and out of 
character for Mr W (which I think there are arguments to say it is) I then need to go on to the 
second part of the test. And that is to determine whether that intervention or further 
questioning should have alerted HSBC that Mr W may have been at risk of financial harm. In 
short, could it have identified and prevented the scam.Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask.
HSBC should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial harm. 
HSBC says it would have most likely asked basic questions about the payment  but didnt 
keep a record or audit of these. Our Investigator thought as Mr W was satisfied everything 
was ok and also thought he was paying a genuine transport / delivery company, they werent 
persuaded Mr W would have necessarily taken any notice of what HSBC may've said at the 
time, or that HSBC would've had any suspicions about the payment.
When there arent any records available, or there is a discrepancy about what happened, or 
what was or wasnt said, or where a significant amount of time has passed since the event in 
question, I have to reach my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened 
based on the balance of probabilities. 
In the circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to have expected HSBCs checks to 
include some basic questions about the purpose of the payment. In this case it would have 
likely identified that Mr W was intending on purchasing a car. And then from there, HSBC 
would need to satisfy itself that everything was ok with the transaction. It could broadly do 
this by asking some additional questions of Mr W. 
When considering the above and the questions HSBC could have likely asked at the time 
Mr W made his payment, it is also important for me to acknowledge that at the time, Mr W 
had absolutely no idea that he was falling victim to a scam which was sophisticated in its 
nature. Mr W, at the time, was satisfied that he had seen a car for sale through a well-known 
legitimate online car selling website and the car was to be delivered by what he thought was 
a legitimate transport company which was whom he was intending to pay. 
When I take the above into account, and based on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied 
that even if HSBC had carried out further checks and asked some further questions, I think 
it would have been satisfied by the answers Mr W would most likely have given. 
I dont think theres anything HSBC could reasonably have asked, or suggested Mr W do, 
that would have uncovered the scam. While Mr W had not seen the car in person, Im 
mindful there was seemingly a transport company delivering the car. Mr W says the price of 
the car was reasonable and didnt appear too good to be true. So had further questions 
around this aspect been asked of Mr W  I dont consider there would have been an 
obvious indication to HSBC that something might not be right.
 
So I dont think it is fair to say that HSBC should reasonably have been on notice Mr W was 
at risk or that it could have prevented his losses.
Overall and in summary, I am of the opinion that had HSBC intervened in the payment  
which I believe there is an argument to say it ought reasonably to have done  and had it 
asked Mr W about the payment, then I consider it is more likely than not that Mr W would 
have answered and satisfied HSBC that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. I dont consider 
the scam would have been uncovered, given the sophistication of the scam and that Mr W 
was satisfied that everything was legitimate. 
I appreciate how Mr W feels about this case and that this will come as a disappointment to 
him. And Im also not suggesting that he did anything wrong. He has simply been the victim 
of a very sophisticated scam. But I dont think it would be fair to say any further action 
HSBC could reasonably have taken would have prevented the scam. And so I dont think it 
would be fair to require HSBC to refund the £5,690 payment he lost. Ive also looked at whether HSBC took reasonable steps to try to recover the money once it 
was told about the scam. Due to the passing of time this has been difficult. Mr W says he 
reported the matter shortly after it happened in 2016. He initially said that he reported on 
the same day he made the payment  but in his testimony he has also said he wasnt 
aware that he had been the victim of a scam for several days as it wasnt until the car didnt 
arrive that he realised hed been scammed. HSBC has no record of any contact from Mr W 
in November 2016 and only has notes on its systems to show there was a temporary 
increase to Mr Ws limit in February 2017. I think had Mr W reported it  it is likely HSBC 
would have logged it formally and the contact and reporting of it would have likely shown on 
its system notes. In any event, Im mindful scammers usually remove funds immediately to 
avoid the possibility of them being recovered. So I dont think it likely HSBC could have 
done anything further to get the money back at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman