DRN-1998714
 
The complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she 
took out an Egg credit card in 2002. She was sold the policy on-line by Canada Square 
Operations Limited (CSOL). 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld.
In my provisional decision dated 5 June, I explained why I disagreed that this complaint 
should be upheld. I set out an extract below: 
Our adjudicator asked Miss C if she had any medical conditions at the time she bought the 
PPI. In response Miss C told us about a medical condition shed had since birth which 
potentially might not be something she could make a successful claim for under the policy 
rules. Without wishing to suggest the condition wouldnt have been important to Miss C, Ive 
seen that this wasnt something she mentioned when she first complained to either CSOL 
or ourselves. In fairness to Miss C, shes told us she forgot to mention it in error.
I can also see weve asked several times for more information about Miss Cs health and 
evidence about the medical condition. Miss C has given us a few details about her 
condition and the medication she takes for it. But she hasnt given us evidence about her 
condition or how it might affect her ability to work and so make a claim on the policy. For 
example, Miss C could ask her GP to provide a letter setting out details of her condition 
and how it affects her daily life and ability to work. I think its reasonable to seek this and I 
dont think it would be a significant inconvenience for her to ask her GP.
So as things stand I wont be upholding Miss Cs complaint based on her long-standing 
medical condition.
In respect of all other aspects of the sale, I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. I thought 
that Miss C was given a choice about taking out the policy, that she was eligible for the cover 
and it was affordable for her. 
From what Ive seen both Miss C and CSOL have received a copy of my provisional decision 
by email, but havent come back us with any further evidence of information. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Given that theres no new evidence or information for me to consider, I see no reason to add 
anything to my provisional findings. 
It follows that I wont be upholding Miss Cs complaint as I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Miss C on this occasion. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint, which means that Canada Square Operations Limited  
doesnt need to do any further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman