DRN-1287757
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. He wants it to remove records of the cancellation and compensate him for his 
financial losses.
What happened
When Mr A took out a policy with Markerstudy, he disclosed an ongoing personal injury 
claim. Markerstudy said it was informed by the Insurance Fraud Register that Mr A had had 
a previous claim repudiated by another insurer. It said it then cancelled Mr As policy in line 
with its terms and conditions. Mr A thought this was unfair as he said the claim was a County 
Court issue and didnt lead to any convictions. He said the cancellation affected his ability to 
get new cover. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Markerstudy was entitled to cancel the claim according to the policy terms and conditions. 
He didnt think it had acted incorrectly.
Mr A replied that he thought Markerstudys terms and conditions were unclear. He thought 
hed provided the correct information when he took out the policy and it was unfair for 
Markerstudy to later cancel the policy because of the repudiation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration that his policy with Markerstudy was cancelled midterm 
following the dismissal in court of his personal injury claim. He says this had nothing to do 
with Markerstudy. And he said that it was just regarding the personal injury aspect of a claim 
where hed already been held not liable for the accident.  
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The policy terms that Markerstudy used to cancel the policy are set out on page 33 of the 
policy booklet under Cancellation by us,
We can cancel this policy at any time if there are serious grounds to do so, including but 
not limited to the following examples.
Where we have grounds to suspect fraud or misrepresentation
I think its for Markerstudy to decide what risks it wishes to cover. I think this policy wording 
is reasonably clear and not unusual in insurance policies Ive seen. I can see that Mr A had told Markerstudy about the previous claim when he took out his 
policy with it. But the wording above means that Markerstudy could cancel the policy at any 
time when it had serious grounds. 
The Insurance Fraud Register had informed Markerstudy of the repudiation of Mr As claim 
by another insurer. Mr A told us that the court ruling for his personal injury claim wasnt 
positive. I think it was reasonable for Markerstudy to consider this repudiation to constitute 
serious grounds and so invoke the cancellation.  
So I think Markerstudy acted within the policys terms and conditions and fairly and 
reasonably in cancelling Mr As policy. I dont require it to remove the cancellation record or 
pay Mr A any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19August2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman