DRN-3090937
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts and recorded information 
about her with fraud prevention agencies. She feels this is unfair and would like this 
information removed.
What happened
Miss H has complained using a representative, but for ease of reading Ive referred only to 
Miss H in this decision.
Miss H had her bank accounts with Barclays. In September 2020 her current account 
received two large credits. These payments were then rapidly transferred out of the account, 
in eight separate transactions to a cryptocurrency firm.
Several days later Barclays received word from the sending bank that the payments were 
the result of fraud. Barclays blocked Miss Hs account while they looked in to things. After 
reviewing what happened Barclays took the decision to close Miss Hs accounts and retain 
the money in them. They also recorded a marker with the national fraud database, CIFAS.
Miss H complained to Barclays about this. She said she didnt have access to her accounts 
at the time of the transactions, and she didnt know about the money coming in to her 
account. She hadnt given her banking details to anyone or allowed someone else to use her 
account. But she said shed entered a competition online to win a car and may have entered 
her personal information. 
She said the marker with CIFAS had meant she wasnt able to open an account elsewhere. 
To resolve the complaint, she asked for the money in the account to be returned to her, and 
for the CIFAS marker to be removed.
Barclays investigated, but felt that the terms of Miss Hs account allowed them to restrict and 
then close her account. They also said that in line with Banking regulations they have an 
obligation to report incidents like this to CIFAS and felt the information they recorded was 
accurate.
But Barclays accepted their customer services hadnt been up to standard, and they had 
taken too long to allow Miss H access to the funds in the account. They agreed to release 
the funds and pay Miss H £100 compensation for the inconvenience.
Unhappy that the CIFAS marker would remain Miss H referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at it but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. The 
investigator explained that to record a marker with CIFAS Barclays would have to have 
reasonable rounds to believe Miss H was involved in fraud or financial crime. 
Having reviewed the evidence they saw that the same mobile device that made the 
transactions out of the account had been used by Miss H previously. They also said that 
Miss H had sent money to the cryptocurrency firm previously. They didnt feel the 
explanation of the car competition could explain how Miss Hs phone was accessed.
Based on this the investigator felt it was more likely than not Miss H had knowingly moved 
on the fraudulent funds. On that basis she felt the CIFAS marker was fair. 
Miss H disagreed with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 CIFAS marker
Our investigator outlined in detail the level of evidence required for Barclays to record a 
CIFAS marker against Miss H  so I wont repeat it in detail here. But briefly Barclays need 
to be able to demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted. And that Miss H was complicit in this fraud or 
financial crime.
The important question for me to answer is whether Barclays have sufficient evidence to 
meet this standard of proof. Having considered this, Im satisfied they do. Ill explain why.
Its accepted the payments in to Miss Hs account were the result of fraud. They were 
reported as such by the sender. And Miss H hasnt indicated this was money she 
thought belonged to her or was expecting to receive.
After the payments were received in to Miss Hs account they were rapidly moved on 
to a cryptocurrency firm using mobile banking. From the recorded device IDs this 
mobile device had been used to access Miss Hs online banking for at least ten days 
before the fraudulent payments in. This device was also associated with Miss Hs 
mobile number. 
This device had previously been used to make payments to the same cryptocurrency 
firm, and Miss H hadnt disputed these transactions. Miss H accessed her online 
banking to make genuine transactions after these, so they wouldve been visible to 
her, and she couldve reported them to Barclays had they not been genuine. This 
satisfies me its was more likely than not Miss H who made these transactions, or she 
was at least aware of them.
Miss H has said she only used one device for her mobile banking  and there is a 
second device ID that was accessing her account around this time. This device was 
also linked to Miss Hs same mobile number but had been accessing the Barclays 
account for much longer and made other transactions that Miss H hasnt disputed. I 
can see that this device had also authorised a payment to the same cryptocurrency 
firm. This satisfies me both devices were being used by the same person.
All the transactions to the cryptocurrency firm  using both devices, and whether 
disputed or undisputed by Miss H  have the same reference in the transaction. This 
again strongly suggests they were all sent by the same person, to the same 
cryptocurrency account.
Miss H has suggested her details may have been taken when she entered an online 
competition to win a car. She hasnt provided any evidence of this competition but 
has commented on what details she thinks she entered. But it doesnt seem likely a fraudster would be able to set up mobile banking on two separate devices with the 
information she says she provided. 
Setting up mobile banking on a new device would require either use of the PINsentry 
device  and with it Miss Hs real debit card  or an authentication code sent to Miss 
Hs mobile number. And Miss H hasnt mentioned sharing an authentication code, or 
her online banking details, to enter the competition. On that basis I dont think its 
plausible the mobile banking could have been set up without her knowledge.
The money was rapidly moved on after it was sent to Miss Hs account  both 
fraudulent transactions were moved on within an hour. This suggests to me the 
person moving it was expecting it to arrive, and as such knew about the fraud taking 
place. And the larger fraudulent transactions were sent onwards in smaller amounts, 
which suggests they were looking to conceal the nature of the transactions from any 
account monitoring systems. 
Based on this, I cant see a plausible explanation of how an unknown third party could have 
accessed Miss Hs account and used it to pass on the fraudulent funds. Its more likely than 
not that the transfers out were done by either Miss H or someone with her consent. On that 
basis, I think the standard for evidence for Barclays to record a marker with CIFAS has been 
met. For this reason, I wont be asking Barclays to remove it.
Customer service
Miss H has also complained about the service she received from Barclays. There are 
several issues here that Miss H complained about, and I dont intend to address them all 
individually  but I can see the major issues are around having to contact Barclays 
repeatedly to find out what was happening with that account and that they retained the 
money in the account far longer than expected.
I can see Barclays have accepted that their service wasnt up to standard and offered £100 
for the inconvenience this caused. 
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Barclays didnt do anything wrong when retaining 
the funds in Miss Hs account while they carried out an investigation in to what happened. 
The account had been used to accept fraudulent credits, so I understand why Barclays 
would wish to know where the money in it had come from. I think its fair for the bank to ask 
for further information before releasing any funds
However, I agree they could have released the money to Miss H much sooner  considering 
the relatively low value and that she could demonstrate who where it had come from. 
I can also see Miss H was regularly trying to contact Barclays from an update while waiting 
for the funds to be released. 
Miss H has been inconvenienced by Barclays not dealing with this in a timely fashion. 
However, I do have to temper this with the fact that the root cause of the restrictions on the 
account is down to the fraudulent credits paid in and moved on, which as Ive explained 
above I think Miss H likely was involved in. 
On that basis I think the £100 offered is a fair reflection of the inconvenience Miss H 
suffered, and I wouldnt ask Barclays to increase it. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of to pay Miss H £100 to settle the 
complaint is fair in the circumstances, so Im not asking them to do anything further
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman