DRN-1986517
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) didnt 
provide accurate information about its opening times.
What happened
On 24 December 2019, Mr M called AA to discuss the renewal of his breakdown policy but 
got a recorded message saying the office was closed. He received a text on 1 January 2020 
asking him to call AA to renew today but when he did, he got a recorded message saying 
AA was closed again. 
Mr M complained that AA hadnt given him the right information about its opening hours. 
Hed received a letter dated 22 December which said to call Mon-Fri 8am- 8pm & Sat 9am-
5pm. The Christmas opening hours werent included in the letter. He questioned why hed 
been sent a letter with incorrect details and a text that said to phone now and renew now 
when AA wasnt open. Mr M felt this was poor customer service and had inconvenienced 
him.
AA said it was a business decision to close its offices early on Christmas eve and to not 
include time changes for the holiday period in its letters. It said the system sending the SMS 
text message would have been set a few days before the message was delivered to Mr Ms 
phone. It doesnt recognise holidays and happened to be sent when the office was closed for 
New Years day. This was also a business decision. AA didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint but 
sent him a cheque for £20 as a gesture of goodwill and to compensate him for his phone 
calls.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into    
Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He thought the £20 AA had 
paid Mr M was fair compensation for inconvenience and the cost of his calls. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. So, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M feels that AA should have given him clear information about its Christmas opening 
hours, given the time of year it was contacting him. He isnt seeking financial compensation 
from AA, but he would like it to acknowledge its done something wrong and apologise for it.
The letters AA sent Mr M in December 2019 show its standard opening hours and dont 
make any reference to seasonal changes. The text sent to Mr M on 1 January 2020 urged 
him to Renew today, before its too late. 
AA says that communications regarding renewals are automatically generated and triggered 
on key periods in a 12-month membership renewal cycle. It says it isnt possible to send 
tailored correspondence to its several million customers who renew at all periods throughout 
the year. Its documentation states the usual business operating times and the best contact 
number to call it on. Mr M would have been routed to the recorded message as soon as he 
called, so he wouldnt have experienced inconvenience above dialling a number and 
listening to a brief message.
I appreciate Mr M feels the AA should have made changes to its documentation and 
processes to avoid customers making unnecessary calls. But these are commercial 
decisions and its beyond the remit of this service to tell AA to change the way it operates.
I dont doubt it was frustrating for Mr M to follow AAs instructions to contact it on two 
occasions, only to get through to recorded messages. But as Ive said, I cant tell AA to 
change its processes. And I think the £20 its paid Mr A is reasonable compensation for the 
frustration and inconvenience hes experienced. So, I wont ask AA to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman