DRN-3835879
The complaint
Miss F complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money have unfairly 
registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Miss F had a credit card with 118 118 Money. She says that despite them telling her during 
the pandemic that they wouldnt register a default, they did. Miss F made a complaint to 118 
118 Money.
118 118 Money did not uphold Miss Fs complaint. They said that their systems show they 
sent a notice of default on 11 June 2021. They said she was required to make a payment of 
£39.80 before 2 July 2021 to avoid the default, but as she failed to make a payment by that 
date, her account defaulted. 118 118 Money said the onus was on Miss F to make her 
repayments and they had listened to the calls she had with them, but they disagreed with her 
concerns. Miss F brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Fs complaint. She said that on 11 June 2021, 118 118 
Money issued a Default Notice due to an outstanding arrears balance of £39.80. They 
advised Miss F that shed need to make this payment before 2 July 2021 to prevent the 
account from defaulting and she said they highlighted the consequences of not bringing her 
account up to date. They explained the impact this would have on her credit file. But Miss F 
did not clear the arrears by the date given. Our investigator said that she considered what 
118 118 Money did was reasonable, and likely in Miss Fs best interests.
Miss F asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that she rang 118 118 
Money on 29 June 2021, before the account defaulted. She said she came to an agreement 
with the call handler for a payment plan which meant she would not have to pay the £39.80. 
She says she was told her account wouldnt default if she made a payment of £9.80, so 
thats what she did on 29 June, which showed on her July statement.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three 
months. Miss F had had trouble making her repayments in 2020 originally due to the 
pandemic. I can see that 118 118 Money sent her a default notice with a letter dated 11 June 
2021. The default notice set out that Miss F needed to pay £39.80 before 2 July 2021.
Ive considered what Miss F has said about her call with 118 118 Money on 29 June, which 
would have been after they had sent her the default notice, but before her account defaulted. 
So I have listened to this call. Miss F tells the call handler she is still unemployed and there 
is no change to her circumstances. She says she wished to continue the same payment 
arrangement for another three months. The call handler explained that they would need to 
go through Miss Fs income and expenditure in order to see if they could set up a plan.
The call handler says that Miss F has £35 disposable income each month and she asks if 
she would like to set up a plan for this amount or the £9.80 she originally asked to set up. 
Miss F confirms it is for £9.80. The call handler says to her that her account is past due and 
asks if she can afford to pay the arrears. Miss F says she will be able to pay £9.80 today and 
this is processed. She says she will pay the arrangement of £9.80 from 29 July. The call 
handler explains the system wont allow this date, but the payment could go out on 28 July, 
which Miss F agrees to.
The call handler confirms the arrangement has been set up for three months with the 
payments due on 28 July, August and September. The call handler tells Miss F that 
collections activity will be suspended while the plan is in place, but regulatory letters 
would still be issued. The call handler also tells Miss F that while your account is in arrears, 
this may also have a negative impact on your credit file. 
Miss F was not told at any time by the call handler that the account would not default if she 
paid £9.80. The potential default and default notice were not brought up by either party on 
this call. While the call handler said collections activity would stop during the arrangement, 
this would not mean a default would not be registered. Stopping the collections activity would 
result in 118 118 Money not contacting Miss F during this timeframe (for example ringing her 
and asking her for a payment or by writing to her)  apart from letters which they are legally 
obliged to send her, as the call handler told Miss F that regulatory letters would still be 
issued. Miss F was not instructed to ignore these. And the call handler informed her that 
because her account was in arrears that this may also have a negative impact on her credit 
file.
So as Miss F had not cleared the arrears of £39.80 before 2 July, as the default notice had 
instructed she needed to do, 118 118 Money terminated her account as set out on the 
default notice and registered a default.  
Ive considered whether 118 118 Money were fair to do this. And although I know Miss F will 
strongly disagree with me, Im satisfied they were fair and Ill explain why. 118 118 Money 
had assisted Miss F during her period of financial difficulty by approving payment holidays 
and payment arrangements on more than one occasion. Miss F was in arrears for a long 
period of time and she was unable to clear these arrears in a timely manner and meet her 
contractual monthly payment. 
118 118 Money have an obligation to accurately report Miss Fs payment activity, including 
any arrears and defaults to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). And her financial situation 
did not appear that it would improve in the short term. Which meant the arrears would 
continue to grow. So it was always likely that a default was inevitable here.
But although 118 118 Money were fair to register a default, Im not persuaded they treated 
Miss F fairly during an interaction she had with them when she received a termination 
notice. I say this because Ive listened to a call that Miss F had with them on 28 July 2021. 
On this call, Miss F was concerned that they had terminated the credit agreement with her. 
The call handler confirmed that Miss F has a temporary arrangement with them for three 
months. She says the termination notice was sent to her to confirm the current status of the 
account. But then she says it was an opportunity to catch up with the payments before 
defaulting, but it didnt mean they would force her into paying, since she already had a 
repayment plan with them. Miss F asks so its not going to be terminated in two months 
and the call handler tells her to just stick with the arrangement she has with them.So I do think that Miss F was given incorrect information here and she was under the 
impression that a default couldve been avoided, and the account wasnt terminated. But as 
118 118 Money confirmed in their final response to Miss F, the default was registered in July 
(although they explained due to credit files updating it can take a couple of months to show). 
As Miss Fs account had defaulted based on her not clearing the arrears before 2 July, as 
instructed she needed to do so on the default notice, this is why her account was terminated 
and defaulted in July.
What I wouldve expected the call handler to do here is to explain to Miss F that as she 
hadnt cleared the arrears by the date given in the default notice letter, then that is why the 
credit agreement had been terminated immediately and a default would be registered. But 
she wouldve still been able to keep to the payments they had previously agreed. But instead 
she was told it was an opportunity to catch up with the payments before the account 
defaulted (even though it appears she couldnt have avoided the default based on her not 
clearing the arrears before 2 July) and she was given the impression the account had not 
been terminated. 
So Im persuaded that this incorrect information had an impact on Miss F as she thought the 
credit agreement hadnt been terminated and she wasnt corrected by the call handler even 
though she directly asked the call handler if it would be terminated in two months (when her 
payment arrangement had ended). 
Im persuaded that for the service provided on this phone call that 118 118 Money should 
pay Miss F compensation to recognise the impact this would have on her. While Im not 
persuaded the default could have been avoided on the call she had on 28 July (as she 
hadnt cleared the arrears by 2 July as instructed on the letter), she wouldve been 
distressed when she found out the agreement had been terminated and a default was 
registered in July, despite the impression she was given on the phone call on 28 July. So Im 
persuaded that 118 118 Money should pay Miss F £50 compensation for the reasons Ive 
already given.
In summary, in order to ask 118 118 Money to remove the default, I would need to see that 
they had registered the default incorrectly. But as the account was in arrears for several 
months and they had sent Miss F a default notice to her registered address with the 
implications of not clearing the arrears prior to 2 July 2021, then Im satisfied that they did 
not make an error in defaulting the account. But I am persuaded that they gave Miss F poor 
customer service in the call on 28 July, so it follows I intend to ask 118 118 Money to put 
things right for Miss F.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. 118 118 Money accepted the provisional decision. Miss F responded to the 
provisional decision. She said when the terminations were mentioned, she assumed from 
what was said that they went hand in hand with defaults. She said that her sole concern at 
the time and still is, was the impact this would have on her credit file. She said there was 
never an issue with the funds being available so the suggestion of a default being inevitable 
is not true. 
Miss F said the problem would most definitely have been avoided if she was receiving 
emails or texts and she was able to have a direct debit set up. She said her financial 
situation was to improve and thats why she spoke with them about clearing the bulk of the 
credit owed in order to get back on her previous lower limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Miss F has said about when the termination was mentioned, she 
assumed from what was said that they went hand in hand with defaults and that her concern 
is about the impact on her credit file. But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, the call 
handler also tells Miss F that while your account is in arrears, this may also have a negative 
impact on your credit file. So Im satisfied that Miss F was told about the impact on her 
credit file. And she was told this before the account was terminated and defaulted. When she 
rang 118 118 Money after she received the termination of the credit agreement, the account 
had already defaulted, based on her not meeting the requirements to avoid a default that 
were set out on the default notice they sent to her registered address.
While Miss F says that there was never an issue with funds being available, on the phone 
call she had with 118 118 Money, she did not mention that she had funds available to clear 
the arrears. This was before the account defaulted. And she didnt clear the arrears although 
the call handler had told her about the impact arrears would have on her credit file. The call 
handler also established that Miss F had £35 a month disposable income and asked if she 
wanted to set up a plan for this amount. But Miss F said she wanted to pay £9.80 for another 
three months, so while Miss F has said her situation was about to improve, the plan she 
wanted to set up would indicate her circumstances wouldnt improve for at least another 
three months. And by this time the account would have been in arrears for a significant 
number of months. 
So while Miss F says a default was not inevitable, and there was never an issue with funds 
being available, she told the call handler she was still unemployed and her circumstances 
hadnt changed. She was asked if she could pay the arrears on the call but she said she 
would only pay £9.80. In order to ask 118 118 Money to remove the default, I would need to 
be satisfied that they incorrectly registered the default. But Im not persuaded that the default 
was registered unfairly.
I say this as I have already mentioned in my provisional decision that as the account was in 
arrears for several months and they had sent Miss F a default notice to her registered 
address with the implications of not clearing the arrears prior to 2 July 2021, then Im 
satisfied that they did not make an error in defaulting the account. 
Ive considered what Miss F has said about the problem would most definitely have been 
avoided if she was receiving emails or texts. But it is up to 118 118 Money to decide how to 
communicate with their customers. As this is a commercial decision for them to make, it is 
not within our remit to tell them how they should communicate with their customers. And 118 
118 Money have an obligation to send certain communication by post. Which Im satisfied 
they did here. So because Miss F did not satisfy the requirements of the default notice, by 
the due date, then Im satisfied that 118 118 Money did not register the default incorrectly for 
the reasons Ive previously given.
In summary, Miss Fs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Miss F will be disappointed, but I 
hope she understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to pay Miss F £50. Im still satisfied this is 
a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money should settle the complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things 
right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman