DRN-3687948
The complaint
Miss C and Mr J have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Gold, Platinum and Premier accounts, which were sold to them at some point prior to 
September 2001, October 2006 and June 2007 respectively.
Miss C and Mr J say that their accounts were mis-sold specifically because after taking out 
the account(s) Mr J was diagnosed with a medical condition. Miss C and Mr J say they 
checked with Lloyds and were told that hed be covered for the condition, but now say that 
he wasnt.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think the packaged accounts 
had been mis-sold. 
Miss C and Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Miss C and Mr J say that after having the account [Mr T] was diagnosed with [medical 
condition]. I rang the bank to ask them if this affected out[sic] travel insurance and were we 
still covered and I was told by an advisor that he was.
Miss C and Mr J say they have since discovered that Mr J was not covered by the travel 
insurance.
Unfortunately, Miss C and Mr J have not said when exactly it was that Mr J was diagnosed 
with the medical condition. Its also not clear whether it was Lloyds they were speaking to or 
whether it was actually the travel insurer, when they checked if Mr J would be covered. 
Although I think it unlikely that Lloyds would confirm Mr J was covered, when this is actually 
a decision the travel insurer would need to make. And I note that when calling up about an 
insurance product provided by a packaged account, its often not clear to the accountholder 
who exactly theyre speaking to i.e. whether they are speaking to the bank or the product 
provider. But either way, their testimony indicates that Mr J was diagnosed with, and 
checked if he was covered for, a medical condition after the sale of the Gold account.
When selling the accounts, Lloyds was required to draw the important information about the 
accounts and the associated benefits to Miss C and Mr Js attention. And one of the 
exclusions of the travel insurance at the time the Gold account was sold was that pre-
existing medical conditions werent covered  that is unless they were declared to the travel 
insurer, and the travel insurer accepted cover for them. 
So given that Miss C and Mr J did check if Mr J would be covered once he received his 
diagnosis, overall it looks like Lloyds actually did what it needed to do during the sale in 
terms of making Miss C and Mr J aware of the need to check new conditions would be 
covered by the insurer. As such, I cant say that the Gold account was mis-sold, especially if 
the insurer said that it would cover Mr Js condition  which mayve been correct. 
So overall, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold in the first place and there is not 
enough for me to say that Lloyds mis-led Miss C and Mr J in relation to whether he would or 
would not be covered for his medical condition.
In terms of the Platinum and Premier accounts, Im mindful that Mr J mayve already been 
diagnosed with his condition before the sale of these accounts. But I have looked at the 
travel insurance terms and conditions that were in force when the respective accounts were 
sold to Miss C and Mr J. And Mr Js medical condition was included in a no screen list, for 
both accounts. This essentially means that if either of the account holders had one of the 
conditions included in the no screen list  which Mr J did - then the travel insurer would 
cover that condition without the account holders needing to declare it to the insurer. 
As such, if it was the case that Miss C and Mr J were told by Lloyds in October 2006 and 
June 2007 that the travel cover will cover Mr Js medical condition  that is correct. He was 
covered for his condition. And I can see that his condition was still included within the no 
screen list of conditions in the Premier account travel insurance up until Miss C and Mr J 
downgraded their account to a fee-free account in November 2016.
Because of this I cant say that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. 
I say this especially because I can see that Miss C and Mr J were also able to make use of a 
number of the other products provided with the accounts. So if the accounts were 
recommended to them by Lloyds, overall the recommendations look to have been 
reasonable in the circumstances. And whilst Lloyds may not have given Miss C and Mr J all 
of the important information about the account and benefits during each sale, I cant see 
anything about their circumstances that makes me think that they wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to them, had they been given more information about them.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman