DRN-2694610
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves 
Lansdown) calculated the average cost figure for his investments.
What happened
Mr B used Hargreaves Lansdown as an execution-only service and provided instruction to 
execute trades on 16 and 17 March 2020. Mr B was concerned with the valuation he 
received and raised a complaint because he felt their method of calculating costs was 
incorrect and had caused him a financial loss.
 
Hargreaves Lansdown responded on 30 March 2020. They set out their method and where 
Mr B was able to find information. However, Mr B reiterated his concerns in a further email. 
He said that a logical method would be to add the cost of existing stock plus the cost of 
bought stock. He was also concerned about how this effected other trades hed made on the 
platform. 
Therefore, Hargreaves Lansdown issued a further response on 8 April 2020. They felt they 
had been reasonably clear in the information provided to Mr B about how costs were 
calculated. They also set out their reasons for choosing to calculate the average cost figure. 
Mr B remained unhappy with their response and asked us to investigate. 
The investigator issued their view and explained that she didnt think Hargreaves Lansdown 
had acted unfairly. As Mr B didnt agree with the view, the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B feels strongly that Hargreaves Lansdowns method of calculating the cost 
is incorrect and Ive thought carefully about what hes said. Hargreaves Lansdown have 
explained their approach is based on a commercial decision. Its not the role of our service to 
tell businesses how to conduct business. But we do expect such decisions to be applied 
fairly to consumers and its with this in mind that Ive considered the complaint.  
Hargreaves Lansdown have explained that displaying a moving average cost per holding 
gives a more accurate representation over a longer period of time. Theyve also explained it 
was necessary to establish a method for automatically calculating costing figures for all 
clients and say they considered the relevant regulations. They say that the figures are 
intended to be a guideline and shouldnt be interpreted as the basis on which investment 
decisions are made. 
Having carefully considered whats been said by the parties, Im not persuaded Mr B has 
been treated unfairly in respect of how the figures were calculated. I note Mr B has 
commented about the methods of other businesses. But its not unusual to see approaches 
vary and I cant say Hargreaves Lansdown have done anything wrong here.  However, I 
would expect to see the calculations and how the information should be used was clearly 
explained.
Therefore, Ive considered what information Mr B wouldve had access to when using the 
platform. Hargreaves Lansdown have provided screenshots and a link to show what 
information is available to its clients. This demonstrates that information about the figures 
displayed is available when viewing investment holdings and it includes an explanation of 
the calculation. It also states that the information shouldnt be used for making investment 
decisions and the figures were only in relation to purchases.  
Moreover, Hargreaves Lansdown provided investment reports which included information 
about the calculation. Again, it explains that it is in relation to purchases only and that the 
figures might be affected by several factors. For example, through equalisation.
In response to the view, Mr B also says it cant be fair for Hargreaves Lansdown to charge 
more for stock. However, the average cost is a display cost which Hargreaves Lansdown 
have explained is intended to be a guideline to investors. It doesnt represent the actual cost 
Mr B has paid for stock and Im satisfied theres no evidence to say Mr B has been charged 
more than he should have been. 
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied Hargreaves Lansdown were reasonably clear about 
how the figures were calculated and that they shouldnt be used for making investment 
decisions. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling and can understand his disappointment, overall 
Im content Hargreaves Lansdown acted fairly and reasonably. This is because theyve 
treated Mr B fairly in respect of calculating the cost and reasonably explained those 
calculations. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman