DRN-3795049
The complaint
Mr D complains about a mobile telephone device he got using a fixed sum loan with 
Telefonica UK Limited.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr D took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica for a mobile 
telephone device. Shorty after taking delivery of the device, Mr D says he noticed it would 
shut down intermittently and that the battery would lose charge sooner than he expected.
Mr D says he wanted the devices manufacturer to inspect it, but couldnt because of the 
global pandemic. Eventually, in November 2020, Mr D was able to take the device to the 
manufacturer to have it assessed. The manufacturer didnt diagnose any problems, but 
performed a factory reset. Mr D says he was told by the manufacturer he should return the 
device if the problems persisted and that they would replace it.
Around eighteen months later, Mr D complained to Telefonica and told them he was still 
experiencing the faults with the device. He also explained that the manufacturer had said 
they would replace the device, if the faults continued. To resolve things, Mr D wanted 
Telefonica to offer a remedy.
In their response to Mr Ds concerns, Telefonica offered to waive half of what Mr D owed 
under the fixed sum loan agreement, to make it easier for him to end that contract. They also 
said they didnt have any records of the faults he said hed encountered, so didnt agree that 
the device was of unsatisfactory quality. Mr D didnt accept Telefonicas reply and brought 
his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds case and found that Telefonica had treated him 
fairly. She wasnt persuaded that the manufacturer agreed there was an inherent fault with 
the device, or that they offered to replace it. The investigator concluded that Mr D didnt have 
any other evidence to show the faults he said hed found, so she didnt ask Telefonica to 
offer Mr D a remedy.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and said the amount of data he uses, 
alongside evidence from the manufacturer, shows that there was a fault with the device. 
The investigator didnt change her findings, so Mr Ds case has now been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about a fixed sum loan agreement which Mr D took out with Telefonica. This is a 
regulated financial product, so we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
Under the CRA, there is an implied term written into contracts that goods supplied need to 
be of satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose and as described. By satisfactory 
quality, the CRA says this is what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the 
price, description, and other relevant circumstances. The CRA sets out what remedies are 
available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services contract are not met.
Mr D was provided with a brand new mobile telephone device, so Id expect it to be free from 
faults for a considerable period of time. I dont think theres an obligation for Telefonica to 
ensure that the device worked correctly for the duration of Mr Ds agreement with it, outside 
of any warranties he was provided with. Such warranties arent something this service can 
consider a complaint about, and its not in dispute that any warranties had expired in any 
case.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty within that period, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to suggest otherwise. Outside 
of those six months, its for Mr D to show that the goods were not of satisfactory quality.
Mr D says he noticed a fault with the device when he first got it. So, on the face it, this would 
place the onus on Telefonica to arrange an inspection of the device at the very least. But, it 
wasnt until nine months later, that Mr D was able to get the device looked at by the 
manufacturer.
Telefonica have provided us with records of their contact with Mr D from February 2020, to 
when he first raised his complaint with them in July 2022. Having carefully considered that 
information, I cannot see that Mr D made contact with Telefonica to tell them about the faults 
he found with the device, during the first two years of having the agreement.
I acknowledge that Mr D found it difficult to get an appointment with the manufacturer in 
2020, in light of the global pandemic and because of his personal circumstances. I also 
understand where Mr D chose to go directly to the manufacturer, instead of reporting the 
faults to Telefonica.
However, I dont think from what Mr D says and from the evidence provided by Telefonica, 
that it persuades me to conclude that there was fault with the device, from the start of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. So, Ive thought about the other evidence available to decide if 
Telefonica have treated Mr D fairly.
The manufacturers reports
Mr D has sent us a copy of the manufacturers report on the device, from November 2022. I 
can see from the details on the report that it says:
Diagnostics show no issues and No notable damage.
The report shows that the manufacturer performed a restore/reinstall of the device and told 
Mr D to bring it back, should the problems continue.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that the manufacturers report shows a 
fault with the device. Im mindful that the report was carried out quite some time after Mr D 
was given the device by Telefonica. But, I dont think the report is conclusive to say the 
device had an inherent fault which needed repair.
I acknowledge where Mr D says that by performing a restore/reinstall, the manufacturer 
has spotted something that needed to be put right. However, the report doesnt say a fault was found, or that a fault stopped the device working as it was supposed to. 
Therefore, I dont think the manufacturers report adds weight to Mr Ds argument that the 
device was not of a satisfactory quality. On balance, I think the report shows that the 
manufacturer was seeking to look into the concerns Mr D had brought to them.
Ive also thought about Mr Ds comments, where he says the manufacturer said he could 
have a replacement device, if the fault persisted. I can see from the report that Mr D was told 
to bring the device back to the manufacturer for further examination, if he continued to have 
problems using it. But, the report doesnt suggest that Mr D should be given a replacement.
Mr D made contact with the manufacturer again in September 2022. I can see from screen 
shots hes provided from an online consultation, that Mr D raised similar concerns to those 
he had in November 2020. 
On this occasion, the manufacturer advised Mr D to go through the same process to back 
up and restore the device. However, similar to the advice Mr D was given in 2020, the 
consultation notes only summarise the problems Mr D had reported to the manufacturer. The 
notes do not detail any fault found by the manufacturer after inspection. So, Im not 
persuaded that the evidence Mr D provided from his discussions with the manufacturer, 
shows there was a fault with the device.
Ive also thought about Mr Ds comments that the amount of data he has used under his 
airtime contract, means the device may not be working as planned. I accept Mr Ds point that 
the data usage doesnt mean the device is defect free. 
But, theres isnt a report from the manufacturer or an engineer to support what Mr D says 
about the fault. Therefore, on balance, I dont think what Mr D says about his data usage 
means the device isnt of a satisfactory quality.
Summary
Overall, I think the evidence doesnt show that the device provided to Mr D, was of an 
unsatisfactory quality. I think the manufacturer has attempted to help Mr D on two separate 
occasions, but they havent found a fault in each instance. So in all the circumstances, I think 
Telefonica have treated Mr D fairly.
I need not make any finding on the offers Telefonica made in response to Mr Ds concerns, 
given that I do not uphold the complaint. But, I dont think any offers made represent an 
admission of responsibility on Telefonicas part and overall I think they handled matters 
reasonably.
Im aware that Mr D has in all likelihood repaid the amounts owed under the fixed sum loan 
agreement. So, the most recent offer made by Telefonica to waive half the remaining 
balance for the device, might now not be available. I leave it to Mr D to contact Telefonica to 
see if they are prepared to revisit the offer they made to him in 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman