DRN-2072497
The complaint
Miss N complains that American Express Services Europe Limited didnt credit her account 
with all of the credits she was entitled to under a card promotion. She also complains about 
poor service she received from American Express Services Europe Limited.
What happened
Miss N had a credit card account with American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL). 
She registered her card for a Shop Small promotion which AESEL offered in 2019. She 
also had an additional card on her mothers account. She says she asked for this card to be 
registered for the promotion but AESEL failed to deal with her request.
She says she used the card on a number of occasions at shops which were part of the 
promotion but AESEL didnt credit her account in the way it shouldve done under the terms 
of the promotion.
Miss N contacted AESEL on 18 December 2020 about this. During the call she says she told 
AESEL that a particular shop which was part of a large group was displaying on the Shop 
Small map as being part of the promotion. She says AESEL told her that if the shop was 
displaying on the map then it was part of the promotion and if she used her card there, she 
would be entitled to receive a £5 credit to her account. 
Miss N says she also queried why certain merchants who appeared on the map didnt 
accept her AESEL card when she tried to shop there. She says AESEL apologised to her 
about this and offered to credit her account with £10 as a gesture of goodwill. She heard 
nothing further and contacted AESEL again on 30 December 2019. She says AESEL gave 
her £30 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused when it hadnt phoned 
her back. And she says it told her it would investigate her complaint further.
AESEL looked into her complaint. It issued a final response letter on 14 February 2020. It 
said it had checked her account and shed already received 10 credits under the Shop Small 
promotion. Two of these credits had been added by AESEL as a result of the complaint Miss 
N had made about her account not being credited after shed used her card in certain shops. 
That was the maximum number of credits that could be awarded. So, even though Miss N 
may have used her card on additional occasions at shops which were included in the 
promotion, it said she wasnt entitled to any further credits.
AESEL said it had given Miss N £10 cashback as a gesture of goodwill following her call on 
18 December 2020. It said it had done this because of the issue shed raised about 
merchants not accepting her AESEL card. It also said it couldnt see the particular shop, 
which was part of a large group, on its Shop Small map. But it said it would look into this 
further if Miss N sent it a screen shot of the map.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with this response, so she complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint. She said we couldnt investigate the part of her 
complaint about the additional card on her mothers account because that complaint would 
have to be brought by her mother.
Our investigator said that AESEL had applied ten credits to Miss Ns account. It had also 
credited her account with £30 by way of compensation. She said the terms of the promotion 
meant that a credit was only awarded once for each merchant. So, even though Miss N had 
carried out multiple transactions with one merchant she was only entitled to one credit for 
that merchant.
Our investigator said that £10 cashback had been applied to Miss Ns account to cover 
issues relating to merchants not accepting the card.
Our investigator said Miss N had been asked to send a screen shot of the map to show the 
particular shop that was part of a larger group. But, even if that shop had been included in 
the promotion, she said it wouldnt have changed the position, because Miss N had already 
received the maximum number of credits.
Miss N didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just point out that I havent looked into what Miss N has said about her 
mothers account. As our investigator said, that matter needs to be dealt with separately and 
any complaint needs to be raised by the account holder.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for AESELs 2019 Shop Small promotion. These 
state that a credit of £5 will be applied to the account when the cardholder uses the card to 
shop at a participating merchant between 7 December and 22 December 2019. The terms 
indicate that the £5 credit will be applied up to a maximum of ten times. And the £5 credit 
would only be applied once per participating location. 
Ive looked at Miss Ns statements for the period. I can see that a £5 credit has been applied 
on ten occasions. Beside seven of the £5 credits the name of the merchant appears with the 
words shop small offer. There are two entries both dated 10 January 2020 which have 
different wording. They simply state credit adjustment.  There is a further credit on 6 
February 2020 which states American Express promotion credit  shop small offer. 
Miss N says that the two entries dated 10 January should not be included as payments 
under the promotion. She says these two entries relate to the £10 she was offered by way of 
compensation. And, she says shes still entitled to two further credits for the Shop Small 
promotion.
Ive thought about what Miss N has said. Ive looked firstly at the number of credits she was 
entitled to receive under the terms of the promotion. These stated that ten was the maximum 
number of credits. There was also only one credit per participating location. 
Having looked at Miss Ns statement for December 2019 I can see she made eight 
transactions between 7 December and 22 December 2019 which were potentially eligible for 
the promotion. 
Although Miss N carried out four transactions during this period with one specific shop, in 
line with the terms of the promotion, Ive only included one transaction for that shop. I think 
thats fair and reasonable having regard not just to the specific terms of the promotion but 
also its overall purpose. She says this was not how the promotion had worked in previous years. But, having looked at the terms of the promotion Im satisfied it was clear that was 
how this particular promotion worked.
So, I think she was entitled to eight credits under the shop small promotion. And, as 
mentioned above, her statements record she received eight credits under the shop small 
promotion. In addition I can see that AESEL credited her account with two additional £5 
credits. So, in total shes received 10 credits. Thats the maximum she wouldve been 
entitled to under the shop small promotion. So, I dont think shes been disadvantaged. 
Ive also considered what Miss N has said about the particular shop which was part of a 
large group appearing on the Shop Small map. AESEL says it asked Miss N to provide a 
screen shot of the map where the shop appeared. I dont think she has provided that screen 
shot to AESEL. 
In any case, having read the terms and conditions for the promotion, I dont think it was 
reasonable to conclude that the shop wouldve been included. The purpose and intent of the 
promotion appears to have been to promote AESEL cardholders to shop at small 
businesses. The particular shop which Miss N says was on the map would not fit this 
description. 
I can see that during the promotion Miss N did shop at this shop. But I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to say it shouldve been included. And, in any case AESEL has already 
credited her account with 10 credits. So, I dont think shes entitled to any further credits 
under the Shop Small promotion.
Ive then looked at what Miss N has said about the £10 compensation payment she says she 
was promised.
Miss N said that our service should listen to the telephone calls. We havent been able to do 
that because AESEL no longer has the call recordings. But it has provided us with notes 
which it recorded about the content of the calls. So, Ive considered those notes together 
with the statements of account for the period. 
I can see that on 18 December 2019 the call notes record that Miss N was unhappy because 
credits under the Shop Small promotion hadnt been immediately applied to her account. 
The notes about the call refer to two instances of where Miss N said this hadnt happened. 
AESEL confirmed that these transactions were eligible under the promotion and it would 
expect to credit the account within sixty days. As mentioned above, Im satisfied she did 
receive all of the credits she was entitled to under the promotion.
The notes then record: 
For the inconvenience provided £10 cashback applied to your account.
Miss N says she never received this payment for inconvenience. But, having looked at her 
statements, I can see there is a £10 cashback credit added to her account. This is recorded 
on page 4 of her December statement under the heading Cashback earned as of 20 
December 2019. So, Im satisfied she did receive the payment that was mentioned on the 
telephone on 18 December.
I can also see there are notes about a £30 compensation payment which was credited to 
Miss Ns account on 31 December 2019. The notes indicate she was paid this compensation 
because AESEL hadnt called her back when it said it would do that. As our investigator 
said, this amount is in line with what wed expect where a customer hasnt been called back. Miss N has also raised issues about the number of times she had to phone AESEL and the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused since she raised her complaint. I can 
understand why Miss N phoned AESEL to check when credits would be made to her 
account. But I wouldnt expect AESEL to have to compensate her because she phoned it to 
ask questions about the promotion. And, it is the case AESEL has made ten credits to her 
account - that was the maximum that couldve been awarded under the promotion. It also 
credited her account with £10 cashback.
In relation to the complaint process, our service cannot look into concerns which specifically 
relate to a complaint process, which is not a regulated financial activity. So, Ive made no 
findings about that issue.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Miss N received the maximum number of 
credits under the promotion  including the two credits made on 10 January 2020. In 
addition, she received £10 cashback on her December statement. And she received £30 
compensation because AESEL hadnt phoned her back when it had promised to do so. In 
these circumstances, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to expect AESEL to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman