DRN-2285564
The complaint
Mr N feels that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) has treated him unfairly 
over a loan he applied for.
What happened
Mr N saw a loan advertised by Yorkshire as having a representative rate of 3% so he applied 
through Yorkshires online offering. There were technical issues and Mr N ended up calling 
Yorkshire, where he went through the application process and was told he was getting a 
significantly higher rate. He took the loan at the higher rate because he feels Yorkshire 
trapped him into taking the loan because it had already performed a credit check. Mr N says 
the 3% is a fake rate and Yorkshire is trapping customers into taking its loans. So he 
complained to Yorkshire.
Yorkshire looked into the matter and said that it made clear that applicants for the loan rate 
may be offered a higher rate. It noted that it was a commercial decision to offer the rate it did 
to Mr N and that there wasnt any persuasive evidence hed been offered the wrong rate. It 
considered what had happened and paid Mr N £50 for the technical issues he encountered 
when he tried to apply for the loan in the first place. But it didnt think it needed to do more. 
So Mr N brought his complaint here.
Our Investigator thought Yorkshires position was fair. Mr N remains unhappy, so this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N makes some broad points about the marketing of loan rates. Clearly the issue of 
financial promotions and financial advertising is an important issue. And Yorkshire, and 
indeed all regulated entities who make financial promotions, have obligations to fulfil. But this 
service isnt the regulator of this or of such financial businesses. If Mr N has evidence of 
widespread issues regarding financial promotions such as fake rates as he puts it, he 
should provide that to the Financial Conduct Authority which is the regulator. To date Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence of such issues as Mr N suggests in what hes provided to this 
service.
This service is an alternative dispute resolution body considering complaints about 
businesses and as such I am able to decide on this complaint by Mr N about how he has 
been treated by Yorkshire in this specific case.
Mr N has provided screenshots of the advertised 3% rate which is referred to as 
representative APR 3.0%. Mr N notes the word representative as to mean that at least 
51% of applicants will be offered that rate. But importantly it should be remembered that 
applications that are rejected arent counted in this figure. So this makes it very different to it 
being 51% of all possible applicants. Clearly Mr N feels he has a very good credit history and 
was disappointed to not get the 3% rate. But Yorkshire is a commercial enterprise and can 
make commercial offers to customers as it sees fit. And it has made clear it hasnt 
mistakenly offered him the wrong rate. 
The screenshot makes clear The interest rate offered may differ from the Representative 
APR shown depending on our assessment of your financial circumstances and your chosen 
loan amount.  So on reading this Yorkshire has made clear that the rate offered maybe 
different to that 3% advertised. And having considered the interactions between Yorkshire 
and Mr N during the application process I am satisfied that Mr N knew he was being offered 
a higher rate than 3% and that he knew what the rate was before deciding to accept it. And 
Im satisfied that Yorkshire informed him of this appropriately and that he then accepted the 
rate.
Mr N says he didnt have a realistic choice in accepting it because a credit search had been 
carried out. But credit searches on credit files dont have the substantial impact on credit files 
compared to other things that can appear on credit files such as defaults, settlements, 
judgements or other reporting (both positive and negative). And Mr N was borrowing a 
substantial sum of money which was clearly an important financial decision for him. And as 
he has explained he has a significant net worth so he chooses to use finance when he can 
afford to finance such things in other ways. So Im not persuaded that Mr N was forced into 
taking the loan because of having had a credit search performed. I think he had a free hand 
to proceed as he wished and did take the loan with Yorkshire because he was happy to 
accept those terms. And furthermore as Yorkshire has explained the first check performed 
wasnt a full credit check but rather just an identification check which only Mr N would have 
been able to see on his credit file. So Im not persuaded by Mr N here.
Mr N wants to know why he didnt get a better rate or indeed the best rate. Ultimately how 
businesses such as Yorkshire offer terms is entirely at their own discretion. And such 
businesses are not obliged to provide the basis or parameters of its commercial decisions to 
consumers. And it is not for this service to comment on such commercial matters. What is 
important here is that Yorkshire are satisfied that it hasnt made a mistake here. And as such 
he was offered the rate he should have been and knowingly accepted it. And having 
considered the position and what has been said here I think this position is fair.
Mr N also feels that Yorkshire hasnt been communicating with him and has faked evidence. 
He points to Yorkshires final response letter on the matter which is dated some months 
before the events described in that letter. Mr N is correct that this letter is dated some 
months before he applied and took the loan in question, but this letter describes these 
particular events. Clearly there is a mistake here in the dating of the letter. But Im not 
persuaded it has caused any significant detriment to Mr N in this case. The letter is correctly 
addressed and on balance I think it likely that it was sent. And it refers to a payment being 
made to Mr Ns account for £50 so Mr N can cross reference the dates to figure out what the 
likely date of the letter was if he so wishes. I suspect there is an error in the year part of the 
date only. Nevertheless I do not see any persuasive evidence of Yorkshire causing Mr N 
detriment through this.
Overall Im not persuaded that Mr N has lost out here. He has raised important points for 
consideration, and I hope Ive made clear my positions on the key points he has raised. I 
appreciate Mr N will be disappointed with his complaint being unsuccessful. But I do not 
think Yorkshire have anything further to do here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Yorkshire Bank. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman