DRN-2053777
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr D say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1997 Mrs C and Mr D took out a PPI policy with a secured loan, which they paid a monthly 
amount for. The policy was solely for the benefit of Mr D and it covered him in case he lost 
his job, or an accident or illness stopped him working. It would have also paid out up to 
£26,000 in the event of Mr Ds death. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C and Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide, in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs C and Mr Ds case.
Ive decided that Mrs C and Mr Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain my reasoning. 
Mrs C and Mr D say they didnt know they had the policy. Halifax hasnt been able to give us 
much documentation from when the policy was sold. But I dont find this surprising because 
of the length of time since the sale  over 20 years ago  and businesses arent obliged to 
keep paperwork indefinitely. 
Mrs C and Mr D havent given us much of their recollection of how the policy was sold to 
them, but I think it more likely that Halifax made Mrs C and Mr D aware that the policy was 
optional and that they chose to take it out. Halifax has told us that the policy was sold in-
branch and it was an advised sale. I dont know what was discussed about the PPI but Im 
not aware of any problems with the way Halifax sold PPI around this time. And without 
stronger evidence about what happened, I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax failed to 
make it clear that Mrs C and Mr D had a choice about taking the policy. And particularly 
bearing in mind that Mrs C and Mr D decided to take the policy for the benefit of Mr D only. 
Mrs C has said she wasnt working at the time, so it seems likely they made a decision about 
how the policy would be of most benefit to them by covering Mr D only. So, Im not upholding 
the complaint on that basis.
Halifax has told us that it recommended the PPI to Mrs C and Mr D, but it doesnt look as if 
the policy was unsuitable for them. I say this because I have considered their circumstances 
at the time of the sale. 
As Ive said, Mrs C has told us she wasnt employed at the time and as Mr D was the sole 
person covered, Ive looked at his situation at the time of the sale. Mr D was employed at the 
time and has said that he would have received employee benefits of up to three months if he 
was too unwell to work. But the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr D was 
made redundant and for up to 60 months in the event he couldnt work because of illness. 
And it would have paid out over and above his employee benefits so they could have been 
used for other essential outgoings in what could have been a difficult time. And as Mrs C 
wasnt working at the time, Mr D was solely responsible for the loan repayments  which was 
secured against their home  so I think Mrs C and Mr D would have appreciated the peace 
of mind the policy would have given them. 
Mr D has also said that he could have relied upon his parents for financial support to make 
the loan repayments if needed. But their own financial circumstances could have changed so 
I dont think their offer of financial support could have been relied upon. 
I cant see anything to show that Mr D was affected by the exclusions or limitations of the 
policy  he hasnt told us of any pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
terms. So, I think its more likely Mrs C and Mr D took the policy because they had a need for 
the cover.
Mrs C and Mr D have said that they policy was unaffordable for them. But they havent given 
me any evidence to consider so I cant say the policy was unaffordable for them. I do accept 
that its possible the information gave Mrs C and Mr D wasnt as clear as it should been. But 
it looks more likely they chose to take it out, so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful if something went wrong. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mrs C and Mr Ds comments about not knowing they had the policy 
and that it was unaffordable, but because of what Ive said above, these points dont change 
my mind. 
My final decision
While I know this will disappoint Mrs C and Mr D, I dont think the policy was mis-sold, for the 
reasons given above so Im not upholding their complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman