DRN-1686079
The complaint
This complaint is about a portfolio of buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mrs G used to hold with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM). Mrs G is unhappy that BM 
wont pay to her directly a number of refunds it has identified as being due on some of the 
now-closed mortgage accounts. Instead, it has set the refunds off against the shortfalls that 
arose when the properties were sold for less than Mrs G owed under the mortgages on 
them. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
All but two of the properties in Mrs Gs BTL portfolio were sold in possession, resulting in 
shortfalls. Of the other two, one was sold and the mortgage redeemed in full, the other  at 
the time this complaint was made  was still owned by Mrs G and the mortgage on it still 
running.
Recently, BM carried out a review of how the accounts had been operated. It identified some 
fees and charges that had been wrongly applied. It also identified some occurrences of 
underfunding; thats where, due to an error on its part, Mrs G paid less that was due. BM 
decided to make redress payments; those in respect of the mortgages that hadnt been sold 
in possession were paid directly to Mrs G. However, the other redress payments were set off 
against the post-possession shortfalls. Mrs G thinks thats wrong, because the bankruptcy 
means shes no longer liable for the shortfalls.
Our investigator didnt think BM had done anything wrong. Mrs G would like her complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive some disappointing news for Mrs G; I dont think BMs done anything 
wrong either. Ill explain why.
I dont need to consider the payments BM made directly to Mrs G; theyre not in dispute. 
Rather, its the payments BM made to reduce the shortfalls that are what this complaint turns 
on. Viewed in that context, this complaint is simpler than its been made to look. 
If a business makes a mistake, we expect it to put the customer back in the position theyd 
have been in if it hadnt made the mistake. Here, BM has identified two different historic 
mistake types. One was debiting some of Mrs Gs accounts with the various fees and 
charges identified by the review exercise. The other mistake was causing some of her 
accounts to be underfunded. 
Where those mistakes applied to mortgages on properties sold in possession, the effect of 
them was to make the closing balances higher, and the resulting shortfalls bigger. If those 
mistakes hadnt been made, Mrs Gs mortgage balances at the time of the property sales 
(and therefore the resulting shortfalls) would have been correspondingly smaller. 
Thats the position Mrs G now finds herself in as a result of the review exercise. The fact that 
shes been through a bankruptcy in the meantime doesnt change that. Thats because BM 
hasnt tried to recover any of the shortfall debts from Mrs G; all its done is acknowledge that, 
as a result of historic errors, each shortfall should have been crystallised at a lower amount 
than it was, and taken the necessary action to correct the recorded position. Mrs G might 
find that unwelcome, but its not unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman