DRN-4303859
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has dealt with 
the repairs to his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
LV took Mr Bs car for repairs following an incident. But Mr B was unhappy with the repairs 
carried out. LV then delayed sending an independent engineer to inspect the car. Mr B 
asked for the car to be repaired at another garage, but this was declined. LV offered Mr B 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LV had 
acted within the policys terms and conditions in using non-genuine parts in the repairs. He 
thought the engineer had tried to contact Mr B, but hed had the wrong number. He thought 
the inspection was still available and £150 compensation was fair and reasonable. He 
thought Mr B could complain further if the inspection showed that LV was responsible for 
poor repairs. 
Mr B replied that the replacement wing mirror didnt fit properly and didnt match the other 
side of the car. He said hed not been offered an inspection. He said hed arranged his own 
inspection, and this found the repairs to the wing mirror and bodywork to be faulty and 
incomplete. He said LV hadnt responded to his emails. Mr B thought it was now too late to 
inspect the car to show the linkage with the repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B wants his car repaired and that dealing with the claim has been a 
frustrating and stressful experience. Mr B listed the areas he was concerned about when his 
car was returned following repairs:
The near side was scraped in the incident. He said this wasn't repainted but polished out 
and there were still marks remaining.
The near side wing mirror had been replaced with a non-genuine part. Mr B said the 
mirror fit was poor and there were gaps in the body, and it wasnt watertight. The color 
and finish didn't match the other side. 
The near side bottom panel fitting/trim was loose, with a gap showing and it was about to 
fall off. Mr B thought the car hadnt been fully inspected for incident-related damage. 
There were various stone chips on the front of the car that were not there on the video of 
the car before the pick-up.
There was a missing chip guard.
When there is a concern about poor repairs, we think its reasonable to give the repairer an 
opportunity to inspect and rectify any issues that its responsible for. I can see that Mr B 
provided images and videos to support his position. And I can see that the garage asked him 
to return the car for inspection. Mr B said the garage agreed to inspect the car at his home. 
But this didnt happen.
LVs response was then to appoint an independent engineer to inspect the repairs made to 
the car. We think this is a reasonable step when there is a dispute about the quality of 
repairs carried out. But unfortunately the engineer called the wrong number and so he wasnt 
able to contact Mr B. 
Mr B then arranged a dealers garage to inspect the car and he provided us with its report. 
This says that the wing mirror needs a new housing, and the panel is insecure. But it doesnt 
attribute these to poor repairs. I can see that Mr B wants to have his own garage carry out 
the repairs he says are needed. 
LV responded to Mr Bs complaint stating that it was entitled by the policys terms and 
conditions to use non-genuine parts. It said the independent engineer now had Mr Bs 
correct phone number, but he hadnt been able to make contact with him. LV said it would 
consider Mr Bs engineers report. But it still wanted to arrange an independent inspection. 
I think its for Mr B to show that he has a valid claim. LV is only responsible for making claim-
related repairs. And, whilst Mr Bs garage commented on the insecure panel, this hasnt 
been established as related to the incident. And I can see that there is still a dispute about 
what rectification, if any, is needed following the repairs. 
LV provided the independent engineer with the correct phone number in May 2023, and he 
called Mr B and emailed him without success. LV then asked Mr B to call the engineer to 
arrange the inspection. Mr B thought it was too late to have his car inspected. But I disagree. 
I think the qualified engineer can rely on the images and videos previously provided by Mr B 
and his own visual inspection of the car to substantiate what rectification, if any, is needed. 
LV agreed that it had caused frustration and delays early in the claim when it gave an 
incorrect phone number to the independent engineer. It paid Mr B £150 compensation for 
this. I think thats in keeping with the level of compensation in our published guidance where 
an error has caused trouble and upset over a similar period. And so I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Our Investigator has already explained that if the independent assessment finds that LV is 
responsible for poor repairs, then the compensation should be reconsidered. And if Mr B is 
unhappy with this he can always complain further. 
In conclusion, LV has accepted it made errors at the start of the claim. It has compensated 
Mr B for these. It has agreed to provide an independent inspection of the car. Its still open to 
Mr B to arrange the independent inspection. I think this is fair and reasonable as a way 
forward. I dont require LV to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman