DRN-3128945
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs R complain that TSB Bank plc made an entry about them on a fraud 
prevention database, CIFAS, when they applied for a mortgage. 
What happened
Mr A and Mrs R applied for a mortgage with TSB. It refused their application and made 
entries about both of them on CIFAS, the fraud prevention database.
Some time later, Mr A and Mrs R discovered the entries and complained to TSB. TSB said it 
would consider whether to remove the entries if Mr A and Mrs R provided further information. 
Mr A did so, but TSB didnt remove the entries. 
Mr A and Mrs R complained to us. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding their 
complaint, so Mr A and Mrs R asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CIFAS fraud prevention database is an important tool in the UK financial services 
landscape, since it allows the sharing of relevant information across the industry. However, 
the consequences for an individual of being reported to the database can be severe, so 
CIFAS issues guidelines to its members on the standard of evidence required to make an 
entry. Ive borne those guidelines in mind in considering this complaint.
When Mr A and Mrs R applied to TSB for a mortgage, via a broker, they completed an 
application form which, among other things, gave details of their income. 
Mr A declared two separate employments, and Mrs R declared one. TSB considered their 
application and the supporting evidence they had provided. It carried out its standard 
underwriting checks. Having done so, it didnt think it had been provided with accurate or 
genuine information, so it made an entry on the database about both Mr A and Mrs R.
As part of this complaint, both TSB and our investigator asked Mr A and Mrs R for further 
information about their employment and self-employment history and their incomes at the 
time of the application.
Mrs R has not provided any further information. Ive considered what TSB has said about the 
checks that it carried out, and in the absence of any evidence from Mrs R as to her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think I can fairly say that it was unreasonable for TSB to 
record an entry about her on the database, and so I wont be asking TSB to remove it.
Mr A has provided further information. This includes correspondence from HMRC, as well as 
payslips and a copy of his tax return for the year in question.
Mr A declared two sources of employment income on the application. Hes provided us with 
copies of payslips which match that information, as well as bank statements showing money 
received.
However, the letter from HMRC setting out his employment history shows that in the relevant 
year only one employment was declared  and that paid him no income. Mr A says that both 
his employers wrongly declared his income for that year by mistake, and he corrected it by 
completing a self assessment tax return to report his income. 
I think its unlikely that two separate and unrelated employers would make substantially the 
same mistake in reporting to HMRC at the same time. But Ive considered the further 
information Mr A has provided. Hes given us a copy of his completed tax return for the 
relevant year, though not the confirmation of receipt or tax year summary from HMRC. The 
tax return Mr A gave us declares self-employment and dividend income, not employment 
income, so its not consistent with the payslips he gave us. And the total amount doesnt 
match the amount recorded on the mortgage application form.
Ive taken that into account. Ive also taken into account the underwriting checks TSB carried 
out, which raised some concerns about the plausibility of the employment Mr A had declared 
given the nature of public records about the companies he said he was employed by. TSB 
was also unable to verify the accuracy of the income he had declared.
Based on the information it had at the time of the mortgage application, I think TSB had 
reasonable concerns that it had not been given accurate information about Mr As income 
and employment history. So I dont think it acted unfairly in making the entry about Mr A on 
the database. 
And having considered what TSB has said in response to this complaint, as well as the 
further evidence Mr A has now provided, I dont think I can fairly ask TSB to remove the 
entry now. Im satisfied there were, and are, reasonable grounds for TSB to consider that it 
wasnt given accurate information in support of the mortgage application, and for it to 
conclude that the standard for making an entry was met.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman