DRN-2818804
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) failed to properly apply their 
Buyer Protection when he raised disputes regarding a purchase he made with a third party 
and paid for using PayPal.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G ordered some face masks through a third-party seller on Facebook and 
paid for them using his PayPal account. The order was for 10 Medimask facemasks at a 
cost of £46.99. 
The items didnt arrive, and on 8 April 2020 Mr G contacted the seller and PayPal and filed 
an Item not received dispute.  
On 10 May 2020, Mr G received the facemasks. He was disappointed as they were not the 
type he believed he had ordered and paid for. Mr G thought he had ordered reusable 
medical masks which had filters and provided NP95 protection based on the advert he had 
responded to, but the masks that he received were standard builders dust masks. 
Mr G filed a further dispute through PayPal Buyer Protection arguing that the masks were 
Significantly Not As Described as the quality of the masks was poor for the price paid.
 
PayPal declined Mr Gs claim as they said the Buyer Protection does not cover buyer 
expectation. They said that the User Agreement says that:
An item may not be considered Significantly Not As Described if:
The item was properly described but did not meet your expectations
PayPal closed their complaint as they determined that the seller had accurately described 
the item, and so they could not require them to accept a return and issue a refund. 
Mr G was unhappy that PayPal werent honouring their Buyer Protection and complained. 
PayPal said that although the items received may not have been exactly as anticipated, the 
usability and value of them was not significantly impacted, and they were unable to hold the 
seller liable for a return. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs case. She thought that the under the terms of the 
user agreement, PayPal had sole discretion on whether to accept a claim, and she couldnt 
overturn that. She thought that PayPal had acted reasonably in the application of the terms 
and conditions of the user agreement. 
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain my reasons below. 
In order to consider whether PayPal have acted reasonably in declining Mr Gs claim, I have 
considered what information PayPal had about the goods Mr G had ordered and what was 
supplied, and whether they have fairly declined to allow the Buyer Protection claim. 
The PayPal invoice lists the item purchased as Medimask by Luxeco  available 10 at a 
cost of £46.99.  
In his testimony, Mr G has said that he thought he was purchasing a reusable medical mask 
with a changeable filter because this was what was advertised.  Mr G has provided us with 
photographs of what he actually received, which appear to be builders dust masks of the 
kind available at DIY stores.  Mr G says that this was different to what he was expecting. 
PayPal Buyer Protection says that 
When you buy something from a seller who accepts PayPal, you might be eligible for a 
refund under PayPal Buyer Protection. When applicable, PayPal Buyer Protection entitles 
you to reimbursement of the full purchase price of the item plus original shipping costs you 
paid. PayPal determines in its sole discretion, whether your claim qualifies for PayPal Buyer 
Protection. PayPals original determination is considered final, but you may be able to file an 
appeal of the decision with PayPal if you have new or compelling information not available at 
the time of the original determination or you believe there was an error in the decision -
making process.
PayPal Buyer Protection may apply when you encounter these specific problems with a 
transaction:
You received an item, but the item isnt what you ordered (referred to as a 
Significantly Not As Described claim)
An item may be considered Significantly Not As Described if:
The item is materially different from the sellers description of it
You received a completely different item
The condition of the item was misrepresented
The item was advertised as authentic but is not
The item is missing major parts or features, and these facts were not disclosed in the 
description of the item when you bought it
You purchased a certain number of items but didnt receive them all
The item was damaged during shipment
The item is unusable in its received state and was not disclosed as such. 
An item may not be considered to be Significantly Not as described if:
The item was properly described but did not meet your expectationsUnfortunately, Mr G is not able to provide us with the original advert that he saw on 
Facebook. As a result, Im not persuaded that the items he received are significantly not as 
described. The wording on the invoice is not detailed enough to establish whether the 
masks advertised were reusable medical masks which had filters and provided NP95 
protection, which is what Mr G says he had been led to believe from the advert. 
As I cant fairly say that the items werent significantly not as described, I cant order Paypal 
to honour the Buyer Protection claim on this point. 
Mr Gs original dispute was that he was unhappy with the delay in receiving his goods and 
wanted to cancel the order. PayPal dont appear to have done anything about this request, 
and then a month later when Mr G received the goods, he changed his claim to a 
significantly not as described complaint. Under step 1 of their dispute resolution process, 
Paypal could have placed a hold on the funds Mr G had paid on receipt of his original 
complaint, whilst he contacted the seller and tried to resolve the issue. However, they didnt 
do this. Even if they had, the hold would only have been in place until the dispute was 
resolved. Once the goods were received, the dispute would have been considered resolved, 
and any further dispute about the quality of the goods would then be a separate issue. In 
view of that, whilst I think Paypal could have acted earlier on Mr Gs initial instructions, I 
dont think ultimately it would have made any difference to the outcome.  
  
I note that this transaction took place at the start of the pandemic, when consumers were 
anxious to protect themselves, and were more vulnerable to being sold overpriced and poor 
quality goods, and I understand how upsetting it will have been for Mr G to find that he had 
been taken advantage of by a company that is no longer trading. However, I cant fairly say 
that PayPal have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My decision is that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie SCA do not need to do anything further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman