DRN-3109413
The complaint
In summary, Mrs S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined her 
vehicle insurance claim. Shes also unhappy that she was accused of fraud and that her 
vehicle was sold and not returned to her. Mr A represents Mrs S in respect of the complaint. 
What happened
In 2018 Mrs S vehicle was stolen from outside her house. Admiral investigated her claim. It 
wrote to her in 2019 explaining why it was declining the claim.  
Mrs S then raised a complaint with our service. In response Admiral explained again why it 
had declined the claim. But it agreed to remove any references to fraud, which it said meant 
her details wouldnt be passed to fraud prevention agencies. It also said she wouldnt need 
to pay Admiral any costs that it had incurred. 
One of our investigators wrote to Mr A explaining why she didnt think Admiral had done 
anything wrong in declining the claim. In response, Admiral agreed to remove the reference 
to fraud. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators assessment. As a resolution, he wanted a written 
apology from Admiral for alleging fraud under term 9 of the policy terms and conditions. He 
also wanted written confirmation that all adverse information about Mrs S had been 
removed. Mr A asked for Mrs S vehicle to be returned. And he wanted our service to review 
Admirals actions and treatment of Mrs S. 
Our investigator approached Admiral. It agreed to provide an apology along the lines 
requested by Mr A. And it agreed to deliver the vehicle back to Mrs S. The investigator told 
Mr A what Admiral had agreed to do. As no response was received from him, she closed the 
complaint. 
Mr A subsequently contacted the investigator again. He said he wasnt satisfied with the 
apology provided by Admiral and asked for it to be redone. He also requested that the case 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
The investigator wrote to Mr A again. She addressed the points made by him. And in her 
summary, she said Mr A had said although he was disappointed the claim had been refused, 
he understood some mistakes had been made by him and Mrs S. She believed therefore her 
opinion in respect of the claim had been accepted. And she set out a timeline of her 
correspondence with Mr A. 
Mr A then wrote to the investigator to explain that to resolve the case to Mrs S satisfaction, 
they would like an admission from Admiral that fraud didnt apply and an apology from it. 
Also, the vehicle needed to be returned, which hadnt happened. 
Admiral wrote another letter of apology to Mrs S and it confirmed her details had not been 
passed to fraud prevention agencies or loaded onto any fraud databases. 
Mr A then wrote to the investigator again. He confirmed Mrs S was satisfied with the 
apology, and that any adverse information had been removed from fraud databases. But he 
went on to say the vehicle had not been returned. 
When the investigator raised this with Admiral, it explained Mrs S hadnt responded to 
requests it had made, asking her to complete its terms and conditions in respect of returning 
the vehicle. It said without this it couldnt release her vehicle. It also said the correspondence 
also explained that if Admiral didnt hear from her, the vehicle would be disposed of without 
further notice. As it hadnt heard from Mrs S, it disposed of the vehicle in April 2021. 
The investigator then issued another view regarding the disposal of the vehicle. She 
explained why she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong in disposing of it. She went 
on to explain why she didnt disagree with the vehicle being scrapped and the vehicle 
valuation. However, she thought Admiral needed to pay Mrs S all the monies it received for 
the salvage without any deductions.
Mr A explained to the investigator why he didnt agree with her further assessment. In 
summary: 
He wanted the full value of the vehicle to be paid as at the time it was stolen. 
He was unhappy that the vehicle had been disposed of when a formal apology hadnt 
been issued. He didnt want to discuss the return of the vehicle until the complaint 
had been satisfied. 
He wasnt happy that it took Admiral 12 months to issue an apology. And he wanted 
to know where the return of premium had been sent. 
The investigator asked Mr A if he had anything else, he wanted to say. In response he said if 
she had already given her view, they would wait for the ombudsmans decision. As a result, 
the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 There has been a long history to this case. Mrs S and Mr A arent happy the claim was 
declined, and the subsequent actions taken by Admiral. However, over the course of the 
complaint, some issues have been resolved, whilst others have occurred and remain in 
dispute. So, with this background in mind, I dont need to consider all the issues that were 
originally raised on behalf of Mrs S. 
In his e-mail to the investigator on 30 June 2021, Mr A expressed disappointment about the 
investigators opinion in respect of the claim but acknowledged some mistakes had been 
made by them. 
In his response to the investigator of 31 July 2021, Mr A acknowledged Admiral had now 
provided an apology to his satisfaction and had removed any adverse information about Mrs 
S from relevant databases. The outstanding issue was the return of the vehicle. 
I dont therefore need to decide if was reasonable of Admiral to decline the claim. So, the 
issues I need to focus on are the disposal of the vehicle, the amount paid to Mrs S for it and 
the time taken for Admiral to provide an apology.Admiral said as no response from Mrs S was received to its communications about the 
return of the vehicle, it was scrapped. Ive considered the actions Admiral took in relation to 
returning the vehicle to Mrs S. 
Admiral has provided details of the correspondence it sent to Mrs S regarding the release of 
the vehicle. I can see between May 2020 and February 2021, it wrote to her on seven 
separate occasions regarding the return of the vehicle. The letters explained the terms and 
conditions for returning the vehicle and that a confirmation of acceptance would need to be 
signed, before the vehicle could be returned. 
They also explained the vehicle would be scrapped if the acceptance form wasnt returned. 
Having examined those documents, I dont think there was anything unreasonable in them 
which should have precluded Mrs S from signing the acceptance form. Im satisfied that the 
documents provided her with the necessary information about what she needed to do to 
enable the vehicle to be returned to her. They also explained what would happen to the 
vehicle if the acceptance form wasnt returned.
Mr A on behalf of Mrs S said they had concerns about completing the confirmation of 
acceptance, until the case had been settled. Mr As e-mail to the investigator in October 
2020, indicates he was aware of the correspondence from Admiral and that the vehicle might 
be disposed of. 
The investigator wrote to Mr A in May 2020 explaining that Admiral had agreed to return the 
vehicle and provide a letter of apology. And Admiral wrote a letter of apology to Mrs S in 
June 2020.
I understand Mr A and Mrs S didnt find the letter wording to be acceptable to them. But I 
think it did provide a satisfactory apology. Admiral did confirm Mrs S details hadnt been 
passed to fraud prevention agencies and that the claim wasnt recorded as fraud. 
Admiral explained it agreed to do this as a gesture of goodwill rather than it believing it had 
made the wrong call when rejecting the claim on that basis. As Admiral did what Mr A had 
asked it to by removing the record of fraud, I dont need to make any findings on this point. 
Particularly as Mrs S and Mr A appear to have accepted that Admiral could reject the claim 
under condition 3 of the policy, in relation to the vehicle. 
I dont agree that Admiral not providing an apology that was satisfactory to Mrs S and Mr A, 
should have stopped Mrs S from completing the acceptance form that Admiral had asked 
her to complete, so the vehicle could be returned to her. If she had signed the acceptance 
form, the vehicle could have been returned to Mrs S straight away. 
By not doing so, further unnecessary storage costs were incurred until the vehicle was sold 
for salvage. That element of Mr S complaint had been resolved. Also completing the 
acceptance form wouldnt have stopped Mrs S from having the other aspects of her 
concerns reviewed. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable of Mrs S not to have completed the acceptance form, and 
to have made that conditional on another letter of apology being provided to her. And I think 
the delay in the vehicle being returned and subsequently scrapped, was not as a result of 
any failings on the part of Admiral.
I can see that in February 2020 when Admiral responded to the complaint, it agreed in order 
to bring the complaint to a close, to remove any reference to fraud which meant details 
wouldnt be passed to fraud protection agencies. Admiral also confirmed there was no 
requirement to pay back any costs incurred. Mr A came back to the investigator to explain he wanted a final decision, the investigator 
asked for clarification in October 2020 as to the outstanding points. Further communication 
was received from Mr A in May 2021 that he wasnt satisfied with the wording of the apology 
and the vehicle still hadnt been returned. So, the complaint was reopened. 
In order to resolve the complaint Admiral agreed to write another letter of apology in terms 
that Mr A had indicated Mrs S would find satisfactory. I dont think it necessarily needed to 
do that as it had already apologised in June 2020. Having already agreed to remove the 
record of fraud, I dont think that it necessarily needed to provide an apology as well. It 
appears to have decided to do that as a gesture of good will and in an effort to resolve the 
complaint. 
I do understand that Mrs S and Mr A arent happy with the way Admiral dealt with the claim 
and the subsequent complaint. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think it has done more 
than it needed to. And as Ive also explained, I dont think it is responsible for the vehicle 
being sold for scrap. 
Admiral had paid Mrs S the money it received for the salvage value of the vehicle less the 
costs it incurred in respect of the claim. It has agreed to pay Mrs S all of the money it 
received from selling the vehicle for scrap without any deductions from that sum. I think its 
right that it has done that. And although Mr A has said Admiral should pay the value of the 
vehicle at the time it was stolen, that was only going to be paid if Admiral had accepted the 
claim. And as Ive explained above the claim was declined, which has been accepted by Mrs 
S.
Mr A has queried the return of the premiums Mrs S paid for the policy. Admiral has said that 
a refund of £416.67 had been returned to the card / account used to pay the majority of the 
premium. It says this was made on 8 July 2021. And it has also said records show this was 
confirmed to Mr A on 1 October 2021. 
 Putting things right
The only thing Admiral needs to do in addition to what it has already paid Mrs S, is to pay 
her interest at the rate of 8% simple a year, on the balance of the money received for the 
salvage. This should be paid from the date the initial salvage payment was made to Mrs S, 
until the date the balance was paid to her.
My final decision
 My final decision is to uphold Mrs S complaint about Admiral Insurance Company Limited in 
part. It needs to pay Mrs S compensation in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 Simon Dibble
Ombudsman