DRN-3885313
The complaint
Mr T complains J .P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) caused severe 
inconvenience when it mis-advised him as to the reason behind why his online bank account 
application had been rejected. 
What happened
 Mr T says in early April 2022 he applied online for a savings account with Chase. Mr T says 
he experienced some initial issues during the application process, which seemed to be 
sorted only to find at the end of the application, it had been declined. Mr T says he 
telephoned Chase to understand why,  as this had never happened to him before. Mr T says 
Chase informed him the account was rejected and he could expect an email telling him to 
check his credit history. 
Mr T says the email from Chase never arrived and when he finally spoke to Chase he 
informed them after checking through his credit history it was fine. Mr T says Chase then 
explained the reason for the failed application was due to him using a stored photo for 
identification rather than from an original document. Mr T says he has spent  great deal of 
unnecessary time looking through lengthy credit reports, making calls whilst overseas and 
has been inconvenienced by the initial mis-advice given. 
Mr T says although Chase have paid him £50 by way of an apology it doesnt go far enough 
and wants it to pay him a total of £250. 
Chase says it accepts Mr T was given misleading advice initially by a staff member, but it 
has apologised for that, had his complaint dealt with promptly and opened the savings 
account giving Mr T an explanation why the account was rejected initially. Chase felt its offer 
of £50 in compensation was fair.
Mr T wasnt happy with Chases response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and agreed Mr T had been 
inconvenienced. The investigator  felt Chase could have done more to resolve the issue 
sooner and should pay Mr T a further £50 by way of compensation making a total of £100. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and felt the compensation should be £250 and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also uphold Mr T s complaint and agree the compensation suggested by 
the investigator is fair here, and I will explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr T to have his online savings account 
application rejected and then to be incorrectly informed why it had. 
When looking at this complaint given Chase have accepted its initial mistake, I will consider 
if the level of compensation it has offered was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its fair to say when Mr T initially raised the issue with Chase concerning the failed 
application a member of its support team misleadingly told him he would get an email 
suggesting he checked his credit files. 
Mr Ts complaint here is he had to make various calls whilst overseas and check through 
lengthy credit reports, only to find there were no issues with his credit file. Mr T eventually 
discovered following telephone conversation with Chase, the issue was that hed taken a 
photo of a stored image of his identification not an original and for security/fraud reasons to 
protect its customers, the application had been rejected. 
So, while I agree Chase could have handled the initial complaint about the application better 
here, when it did understand where it had gone wrong, it dealt with matters quickly and 
professionally. I have listed to a telephone conversation between Mr T and a member of 
Chases support team on 21 April 2022 and a full explanation was provided and further 
support offered if Mr T needed it. 
 Mr T feels the level of compensation of £50 Chase paid him is insufficient - its worth saying 
that its not my role to penalise businesses when mistakes like this occur,  but to ensure it 
takes corrective action swiftly when it does, apologise and pay an appropriate amount of 
redress. 
Im satisfied Chase have done that here, but also taking into account the reason for the 
account rejection was due to Mr T incorrectly taking  a copy image of his identification. That 
said, as Ive already mentioned Chase could have dealt with that sooner than it did. Im not 
suggesting Mr T wasnt inconvenienced here  he was , but thats not to say a higher level of 
compensation is always warranted.
With that in mind and on balance, Im satisfied a further £50 for the inconvenience caused, is 
more appropriate here.
While Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here.
Putting things right
I instruct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase to pay Mr T a further £50 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused, making a total of £100 overall.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase to pay Mr T a further £50 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused, making a total of £100 overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman