DRN-1555951
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs R complain about the way that Santander UK Plc handled a transfer from their 
bank account.
 
 
What happened
Mr A says he asked Santander to transfer £4,000 from a savings account in his sole name. 
He says Santander told him that its security team would call him before the transaction could 
be completed. When he didn't receive the call as expected he had to phone Santander a 
number of times. Mr A then spoke to the security team and the transfer was completed.
Mr A then raised a complaint. But he says that Santander didn't contact him as promised. He 
later found out that the £4,000 had been transferred from the joint account he holds with Mrs 
R, rather than the savings account in his sole name that he expected. He wants Santander 
to pay Mrs R £2,000 reflecting that it was partly her money in the joint account - and for 
Santander to apologise for the distress caused.
Our investigator said that although Mr A confirmed details of the joint account when he 
spoke to the security team, Santander had made a mistake in transferring the money from 
the wrong account. But he thought that Santander's offer of £150 was a fair amount to 
reflect  its mistake and any service issues. 
Mr A didn't accept what the investigator said.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering everything Mr A and Mrs R have said, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
It's clear that the service provided by Santander fell short of a reasonable standard in this 
case. I accept everything Mr A says about the inconvenience he experienced in trying to sort 
things out. There will also have been some more trouble and upset when he and Mrs 
R found out the £4,000 had been transferred from the wrong account.
But listening to what Mr A and Mrs R have said, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint I consider that £150 is fair compensation for any trouble and upset they 
experienced as a result of this matter. 
I can also make an award if Mr A and Mrs R have suffered a financial loss as a result of this 
matter. But I don't think they have. That is because although there is £2,000 less in the joint 
account, Mr S is £2,000 better off. It is up to him whether to transfer that money to the joint account. But it wouldn't be fair or reasonable for me to say that Santander should pay Mrs S 
that amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr A and Mrs R £150 for any trouble 
and upset they have experienced as a result of this matter.
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman