DRN-2253321
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) about a number of 
issues relating to his personal pension and the annuity he took from it.
What happened
Mr Bs unhappiness about his pension situation spans a number of issues and has run over 
a number of years. It also involves businesses other than Standard Life and much of the 
complaint issues have already been considered by our service and/or other similar services. 
I understand Mr B has already received compensation but also remains in dialogue with the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the advisory firm that sold his 
Standard Life plan.
I understand why Mr B wants us to consider his pension situation as a whole. But as our 
investigator explained a number of times, we are unable to do so. 
For completeness Ill explain in my findings the issues raised that I cannot consider. 
Unfortunately, these issues outnumber the issues I can consider but I think its important for 
Mr Bs understanding to be clear. And Ill then go onto comment on the issues I can 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to say having read Mr Bs submissions and the evidence he has provided, I 
was saddened to hear of the situation hes found himself in. As our investigator has 
explained, I cant comment on most of the historical issues that have led to this. But thats 
not meant as a lack of consideration of the importance of these issues. Its just the rules 
which I can operate within, mean that in this decision Im limited to deciding the issues 
Standard Life are responsible for and havent already been considered. 
Much of Mr Bs unhappiness, and seemingly what Mr B believes to be the root cause of all 
the issues that have occurred since, is that Mr B was contracted out of The State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1989 when he took out his pension with Standard Life. 
And from what hes told us, it seems he is now significantly worse off because of this. Mr B 
says the deductions from his State Pension, due to contracting-out, greatly outweigh the 
benefits he is receiving from his Standard Life plan. And so unfortunately, he is much worse 
off in retirement and hes struggled financially.
But as the Standard Life pension and contracting-out was advised by another business, this 
isnt something we can hold Standard Life responsible for. And this point has already been 
considered by us in terms of Standard Lifes responsibility. Furthermore, Mr B has previously 
been referred to the correct organisation, the FSCS, with regards to the advisory firm. 
Mr B has also complained about the sale of his annuity in 2006. However, our service has 
previously considered this complaint and a final decision was issued. 
Mr B also raised further points relating to the sale of the annuity that werent part of the final 
decision referred to above. Standard Life agreed that we could look into these, despite some 
of the aspects having already been considered in other complaints brought by Mr B. Mr Bs 
concerns are whether the annuity he is being paid now was what he requested. He says it 
should have a spouses pension. And whether commission was paid on his annuity.
He provided evidence that showed hed selected an annuity option which included a 
spouses pension. He said further evidence that Standard Life had got it wrong, was that in 
their answers to him they referred to an incorrect annuity option reference that didnt match 
what hed chosen. And Mr B said Standard Life had previously confirmed a family member 
had been selected to benefit from his annuity if he was to die.
However, Standard Life has explained that the quotes and selections Mr B made werent the 
final step in the process. Its provided evidence that Mr B called Standard Life after the 
illustration Mr B refers to and told Standard Life he was a widow. And therefore, a new 
illustration was issued and Mr B decided to choose a new annuity option that didnt include a 
spouses pension. This also explains why the annuity option reference Standard Life refers 
to doesnt match the ones Mr B is looking at. The new illustration and annuity option 
references wont match up with the old illustration Mr B is referring to.
That Mr B didnt select a spouses pension is backed up by the fact the annuity Mr B actually 
received was higher than what hed previously been quoted with a spouses pension. This is 
because without a spouses pension attached to the annuity, the cost of providing the 
annuity is lower and therefore the annuity amount increased.
With regards to Mr B having been told a family member would benefit from his pension, this 
related to his pension fund prior to taking out the annuity. Once Mr B decided to take his 
annuity without a spouses pension the annuity would end on his death. But only once 
outside the five-year guarantee period that Mr B selected. Its now 14 years since the annuity 
was taken out, so the five-year guarantee is now irrelevant. 
Mr Bs belief that he paid commission to another business comes from an illustration hes 
found in his records. Mr B was concerned as the only financial advice hed received was 
from the business who sold him the plan and contracted him out of SERPS. Looking at the 
illustration I can see why Mr B would think commission had been paid. As there were values 
quoted for commission payments. 
However, Standard Life has explained that at the time it was a requirement to show, for 
reasons of comparison, what a customer would pay if they chose to take advice. Standard 
Life has also confirmed there was no adviser attached to Mr Bs plan at the time he chose to 
take his benefits. And as Mr B went through Standard Lifes in-house annuity department no 
commission wouldve been paid to the previous adviser. Standard Lifes in-house annuity 
department did receive payment but it wasnt commission paid directly by Mr B. And its 
likely this wouldve been explained during the call. Unfortunately due to the time that has 
passed this call is no longer available. But Im satisfied Mr B didnt pay commission to an 
adviser.
I understand through the years that the annuity has been in payment, Mr B has requested a 
number of times that he be allowed to take a lump sum and cash-in the annuity. I can see 
that Standard Life has looked into this issue a number of times for Mr B. And a complaint was raised about this in 2017. Since then changes have occurred around this issue and 
therefore Standard Life agreed that we could look at this again.
Whilst I can understand why Mr B would like a lump sum instead of an annuity, the 
legislation relating to this isnt compulsory on a business. Standard Life has agreed that it 
would consider Mr Bs circumstances as to whether it would be appropriate to pay a lump 
sum. And in doing so end the annuity income paid to Mr B. After considering this it decided 
that it wouldnt offer this to Mr B. I know this will have been very disappointing for Mr B but 
Im afraid I can see no grounds to say Standard Life has been unfair or unreasonable in this 
stance.
I say this because first and foremost the legislation that allows annuities to be cashed in is 
limited to annuities worth less than £10,000. Mr Bs annuity increases each year and the 
current annual value is in excess of £500. Standard Life has confirmed that in the current 
market conditions, buying a replacement annuity would cost in excess of £10,000 and this 
corresponds with our calculations. So in any event, Mr Bs annuity doesnt fall within the 
legislation for those that can be cashed-in.
I appreciate that in the past when Mr B enquired about cashing-in his annuity the value may 
have been below this threshold. But I dont think Standard Life was unreasonable in not 
agreeing to this then. At that point it hadnt tested this legislation and it was decided then that 
it couldnt be offered. It has since changed its stance and in some cases agreed to cash-in 
annuities based on individual circumstances. But it has investigated this again and decided it 
couldnt offer this to Mr B.
Whilst I understand why Mr B would like a lump-sum as he is struggling financially, this 
wouldnt be without consequence as it would replace his income. I understand that broken 
down into monthly payments it doesnt seem a lot, but £500+ a year is still a material level of 
income that will provide Mr B with some benefit. And it will continue to increase in value in 
the future.
I know Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision and he feels that Standard Life is 
responsible for his financial position. Ive noted that Mr B feels Standard Life have been 
untruthful and that it has failed to keep him advised of changes to the policy and therefore 
broken laws. However, an investigation of the issues Mr Bs raised hasnt found that 
Standard Life has done anything wrong. Mr B has made general references to fraud, lies and 
not being told about important changes to his plan. But theres no corroborating evidence 
that this is correct. And the specific issues hes raised have either already been considered 
by us and other services or form part of this investigation and decision.
I note that Mr B raised a subject access request with Standard Life and so he has all the 
documentation that is held regarding his plan. This information brought about some of the 
new complaint points raised, but these have now been considered. And Im satisfied that 
both Standard Life and our investigator have gone to great lengths to provide answers to Mr 
Bs concerns. I appreciate that Mr B still doesnt agree with the outcome of our investigation, 
but this decision represents our final say on these matters.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman