DRN-4152411
The complaint
Mr L complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC overcharged him for a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr L accidently overpaid his Tesco credit card. The payment Mr L made left a significant 
credit balance on his card. Mr L followed Tescos online instructions and asked for this credit 
balance to be repaid.
But Mr L had made a payment for £100 a day before he requested the credit balance refund. 
Mr L requested the full credit balance showing on his credit card at the time. This included 
the £100 payment hed made as Mr L says this payment wasnt showing as pending.
This meant Mr L used £100 of his credit card limit once the refund was made. Tesco 
charged Mr L 3.99% for the entire credit balance payment, and later refunded this  but not 
the 3.99% charged on the extra £100.
Mr L felt this was unfair as he didnt know the £100 payment was due to leave his credit 
card. Mr L complained to Tesco, but it didnt agree to refund the £3.99.
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things but didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought Mr L had transferred £100 too much, so Tesco was allowed to charge the £3.99.
Mr L disagreed and said the £100 transaction wasnt visible to him when he asked for the 
credit balance refund. Mr L said it was unreasonable for Tesco to say this was a pending 
transaction when it didnt show up.
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres little dispute about the facts of this complaint. I think I only need to decide whether 
Tesco is fair to say the £100 payment was pending, and could fairly apply the £3.99 charge.
This £100 payment turned Mr Ls credit balance refund into a part credit balance refund and 
part money transfer. The money transfer being £100 of Mr Ls credit card limit being used.
Ive looked at Tescos submissions and can see a payment for £100 was made the day 
before Mr L requested the credit balance refund. Mr L hasnt said he didnt authorise this 
payment, so Im satisfied it was a legitimate payment.
Tesco has said this payment would have been showing as pending, Mr L says it wasnt. 
Neither Mr L nor Tesco have provided anything to prove the payment was or wasnt showing 
at the time Mr L requested the credit balance refund.
But I dont think I need to see evidence of the pending transaction, or lack of it. Im satisfied 
Mr L knew, or should reasonably have been aware, there was a £100 payment made the 
day before.
Tescos instructions are clear, the website says consumers should check pending 
transactions to make sure there are no fees charged. I think its clear if consumers send too 
much money from their credit card therell be a 3.99% fee.
Since I think Mr L should have known about the £100 payment, showing as pending or not, 
he should reasonably have known he was asking for too much money to be refunded to him.
The overpayment of the credit balance was £100, so this was a £100 money transfer, and I 
think its fair for Tesco to charge the 3.99% fee on this amount. 
I dont think Tesco made an error here, so I cant fairly ask Tesco to refund the £3.99 or 
compensate Mr L for the time it took for him to pursue a refund from Tesco.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman