DRN-3269827
The complaint
Mr F complains about the actions of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax when he was 
tricked into transferring money on his debit card and online as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between October 2019 and January 2020 Mr F made payments to two merchants through 
cryptocurrency exchanges. In total he sent around £49,000 to the two merchants, through 
the cryptocurrency exchanges, with his debit card and a £10,000 online transfer. During the 
same period Mr F was also making payments through his credit card and in December 2019 
one of his payments was blocked and he spoke to Halifax. Following this conversation, the 
credit card payment was released. Mr F has also raised the credit card payment and a later 
online international payment, but these are part of other complaints this service is 
considering.
In January 2020 Mr F lost contact with the merchants and did some more research. He then 
uncovered in February 2020 that this was a scam, so he raised the debit card and the 
£10,000 payment with Halifax. Halifax considered the matter but decided not to refund any of 
the money Mr F had lost. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said Halifax 
shouldve raised a chargeback for the money he lost, and the scam shouldve been 
considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax hadnt treated 
Mr F unfairly by not raising a chargeback for the payments here because the money was 
firstly sent to cryptocurrency exchanges who provided the intended services  purchasing 
cryptocurrency  before being sent on to the scammers. And that the CRM code doesnt 
apply to debit cards and international payments Mr F made to his own account with a 
different payment institution. So, the £10,000 online transfer Mr F made wasnt covered 
under the CRM code. 
The investigator didnt think the card payments Mr F made were unusual or suspicious, so 
she didnt think she could reasonably say Halifax shouldve done more to stop them. The 
investigator said that even if Halifax did make contact with Mr F about the payments, this 
wouldnt have led to the scam being stopped because Halifax gave Mr F a warning in 
December 2019 when he was making a transfer on his credit card towards this scam, and he 
was happy to continue with the payments. And she added that Halifax couldnt recover 
Mr Fs money because he had confirmed it had been spent through the cryptocurrency 
exchanges.
Mr F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he was the victim of a cruel 
scam and Halifaxs misconduct meant he had lost his money. He said Halifax failed to stop 
the unusual and suspicious transactions on his debit card and shouldve taken into account 
the loans he was taking out to finance the scam. He added that his chargeback request 
shouldve been raised by Halifax as cryptocurrency payments are well-known red flags in the 
industry and he was manipulated into creating accounts with the cryptocurrency exchanges 
by the scammers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr F thinks Halifax ought to have done more to recover his money through the chargeback 
process and to warn him about scams. Im in agreement with our investigator that a 
chargeback claim wouldnt have been successful in 2020. I believe Halifax not pursuing a 
chargeback was a reasonable exercise of their discretion on the matter. Mr F made the debit 
card payments to cryptocurrency exchanges. And its most likely that they would have 
always been able to evidence that theyd done what was asked of them. That being, 
converting Mr Fs funds into cryptocurrency and then passing it on to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined to fail as those cryptocurrency exchanges had 
provided a service and would have been entitled to keep the funds it had been paid. Its also 
only possible to raise a chargeback against the merchant that received the funds, so there 
wouldve been no option to pursue anything against the scammers directly. 
Mr F has asked why the CRM code doesnt apply here. Debit card and international 
payments arent covered by the CRM code. And for the faster payments it requires that the 
payment is being sent directly to the scammer, which it wasnt. Mr F has confirmed that the 
money was sent to cryptocurrency exchanges before being moved to the scammers. So, Im 
not satisfied the CRM code applies here. 
As a result, Ive considered whether the payments were unusual or suspicious and more 
shouldve been done by Halifax to stop the payments and speak to Mr F to try and 
understand what was happening here. Overall, I dont think the payments Mr F made on his 
debit card were so unusual or suspicious that Halifax ought to have intervened here. I say 
this because Mr F had made other genuine payments of broadly similar amounts before. 
Also, as the scam went on the payment activity had the effect of becoming normalised on 
his account. But even if I thought Halifax shouldve considered the payments cumulatively 
and intervened, for the reasons Ill come to, I dont think that would have made a difference. 
But I do think the £10,000 online payment Mr F made shouldve flagged with Halifax as 
unusual as it was significantly higher than any other online payment he had made. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether a warning from Halifax, when Mr F made the £10,000 
payment, wouldve made a difference here. But I dont think it would. Thats because Ive 
listened to a call that took place in December 2019 when Mr F had attempted to make a 
credit card payment to a cryptocurrency exchange, and it hadnt gone through. During this 
call, Im satisfied Mr F was provided with an adequate warning about these types of scams 
and he confirmed he was still happy to make the payment. In the call Halifax questioned not 
only the purchase of cryptocurrency but who the end recipient was going to be. And they asked questions about how Mr F had been contacted by the merchant and what checks he 
had done.  So, I think its worth clarifying for Mr F that even if I did think the debit card 
payments were unusual and suspicious as well, then I dont think a warning from Halifax 
wouldve made a difference in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Mr F said that Halifax shouldve taken more notice of his account and transactions due to the 
loans he took out to finance the scam. Although I understand what Mr F is saying, I dont 
agree that taking out a loan with the Halifax or with other third parties to fund an investment 
is a clear red flag for Halifax in this instance. Its not unusual to take out a loan to fund 
additional spending on an account and only one of these was with Halifax. 
I dont think Halifax are responsible for errors which prevented the recovery of Mr Fs 
£10,000 transfer. Its sadly a common feature of these scams that the funds are quickly 
moved on from the beneficiary accounts. Indeed, Mr F has confirmed that the money was 
moved very quickly to the scammers, so Im satisfied Halifax didnt do anything wrong when 
it wasnt able to recover his money here. 
Im sorry to hear Mr F lost such a significant amount of money to cruel scammers. But 
unfortunately, I think it was set up in such a way that any intervention by Halifax wouldnt 
have unravelled it and prevented further payments being made. And Mr F wouldnt have 
been able to raise a successful chargeback. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Halifax 
liable for the funds he lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman