DRN-2248986
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd wont pay appropriate 
interest on financial redress it has agreed to pay him.
What happened
In 1991 Mr S was sold a free standing additional voluntary contribution pension plan 
(FSAVC) by Provider A. Zurich has since taken over the obligations of Provider A. For 
simplicity I will refer to Zurich hereafter, even if it concerns the actions of Provider A.
Before the complaint came to our service Zurich had conceded that an FSAVC was 
inappropriate for Mr S. It had agreed that if hed been properly advised he wouldve bought 
added years in his occupational pension scheme, starting in 1992. Mr S later purchased 
added years, starting in 2008. 
Zurich calculated that Mr S paid £23,280.96 more in additional contributions for those added 
years than if hed purchased them commencing in 1992. It offered to pay to him that amount, 
along with interest calculated at the Bank of England base rate plus 1%. It explained that the 
interest was a means of calculating investment loss, rather than interest on the excess 
contributions per se. 
Mr S was happy with the redress, but not the calculation of investment loss. He thought the 
usual rate was 8% simple interest. Zurich did not agree, so he brought that part of his 
complaint to us. He said that he didnt agree hed suffered a loss of an investment 
opportunity. Rather, hed paid more in contributions than he shouldve, and the excess was 
being returned to him. 8% simple interest was the usual rate for a refund of excess 
contributions. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He explained that it is the view of 
our service that in circumstances where a consumer has been deprived of the use of money, 
it is appropriate to award an additional 8% simple interest, on top of the
money award, for the period the consumer is deprived of that money. There was no 
guarantee Mr S wouldve invested the money, and its likely that being deprived of the 
money wouldve influenced several decisions about spending and borrowing during that 
period. For example, if Mr S had had to borrow money, it wouldve cost significantly more. 
For that reason, 8% simple interest is fair. 
Zurich didnt agree. It said there was no suggestion from Mr S that hed had to undertake 
additional borrowing or debt. If there was any such evidence, it would re-consider its 
decision. Otherwise it thought its offer was reasonable. 
Our investigator didnt change his view, so the complaint came to me for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 September 2020. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
The parties have agreed that Mr S, if properly advised, wouldve purchased added years in
his occupational pension scheme commencing in 1992, rather than 2008. The parties have
also agreed that it cost Mr S £23,280.96 more in additional contributions to buy those added
years by starting contributions many years later. I see no reason to why I need to reconsider
either of those issues.
Thus, the only question I need to consider is how compensation should be calculated for Mr
S not having the use of the additional contributions. In short, Zurich says the compensation
should be calculated based on loss of investment opportunity. Mr S and his representative
say it should be calculated based on 8% simple interest for the time Mr S didnt have use of
the money, which they say is normal practice.
In this case the additional contributions represent money Mr S didnt have that he shouldve
had he didnt have it available to use. In my view the fair and reasonable approach is to
base the compensation on 8% simple interest per year from the time he was deprived of the
use of the money until its paid to Mr S. This is the approach that our service typically takes,
and I see no reason to depart from it in this case.
We can rarely, if ever, say for sure what the impact of being deprived of money has been on
a particular consumer over a period of years. An individual mayve deferred spending,
borrowed money, or simply gone without things or experiences. If an individual had to
borrow money interest rates mayve been a good deal higher than 8%. Our service uses 8%
simple interest per year as a fair reflection of this range of possibilities. And it is also the
current statutory interest rate on judgment debts.
It follows that Im not persuaded that the method Zurich proposes is fair. Zurich has based its
compensation on the additional contributions on a loss of investment opportunity. It has
calculated this at the Bank of England base rate plus one percent. But a loss of investment
opportunity isnt the only possibility arising from Mr S being deprived of the use of the
money, as Ive indicated above. I understand that Zurich would be happy to reconsider if Mr
S could show evidence of having to use credit cards or take out loans. I consider our
approach to be reasonable. It wouldnt necessarily be possible or proportionate for Mr S to
have to provide evidence over an extensive number of years of his lifestyle, investment,
borrowing and other choices.
In my view Zurich should only be required to pay simple interest of 8% from the point in time
at which Mr Ss total contributions wouldve exceeded the amount he wouldve had to pay if
hed started additional contributions in 1992. From what I can see this is sometime late in the
year commencing 1 April 2012. I will explain, with reference to the Table attached to Zurichs
final response letter to Mr Ss complaint. Before I do so, I should say that I assume the
parties agree on the assumptions used to calculate the figures in the Table, at least as far as
the amount the Table describes as redress, since Mr S has indicated he is happy with the
redress of £23,280.97.
Mr S had to pay a greater percentage of his salary to buy added years when he started
doing so in 2008 than if hed done so in 1992. The Table shows the effect of this. Column 4
of the Table estimates the contributions Mr S made to purchase added years for each year
since he began to do so in 2008. Column 3 estimates those he wouldve made if hed
purchased those added years for each year commencing in 1 April 1992. The Table shows
that Mr S wouldve made contributions totalling £53,189.99 to buy added years if hed begun
in 1992, as opposed to a total of £76,470.96 for the purchase of added years beginning in
2008. The difference is £23, 280.97, which Zurich describes in the Table as redress, and has
offered to pay to Mr S.
Column 5 sets out for each year an under or overpayment amount. From the year
commencing 1 April 1992 to the year commencing 1 April 2007 the column shows anunderpayment, since Mr S wasnt buying added years during that time. For the years
commencing 1 April 2008 onwards the Column 5 shows an overpayment for each year,
since Mr S was paying a higher percentage of his salary to buy the added years than if hed
started doing so in 1992.
Column 6 sets out what Zurich has called investment loss. I havent been provided with the
complete working out for the figures in that column. But Zurich seem to have calculated it by
taking any year in which there is an overpayment in Column 5 (so any year since 1 April
2008) and calculating investment loss based on the Bank of England base rate plus 1%. So
for example, for the year commencing 01/04/2008, which was the year Mr S began buying 
added years, the Table estimates that Mr S shouldve paid £2,891.02 in that year if hed 
begun buying added years in 1992, but estimates he actually paid £7,524.07 a difference of 
£4,633.05, which Zurich describes as an overpayment. The investment loss is said to be 
£1014.55. The process is continued, to arrive at a total investment loss of £5,482.45.
Setting aside that Ive already indicated I dont agree with the investment loss approach of
Zurich, it seems to me that using the year by year overpayment amounts, as Zurich does, to
calculate compensation on the redress amount isnt appropriate. This is because it makes no
allowance for the years Mr S didnt make any contributions. Here Im referring to what Zurich
calls the underpayments. There doesnt seem to have been any adjustment for the years Mr
S didnt make payments  when he had the benefit of that money. That makes a certain
amount of sense in the context of investment loss, since in underpayment years there hasnt
been any investment loss as Mr S has had the use of his money. But it isnt helpful for my
purposes, since I consider Mr S should be compensated on having been deprived of money
at a rate of 8% simple interest per year. For that to be appropriate the underpayment needs
to be offset. In my view this should be done by deducting the total underpayments (for the
year commencing 1 April 1992 up to and including the year commencing 1 April 2007) from
the overpayment amounts until the underpayments have been fully offset.
By my calculation this would occur later in the year commencing 1 April 2012. Interest at a
rate of 8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each monthly overpayment
should then be paid until the redress is paid. This is because Mr S wouldve made the
contributions representing the overpayments monthly so it is fair that interest be calculated
from each of the overpayments. This is what I propose to tell Zurich to do, subject to any
comments from the parties.
My provisional decision was that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay Mr S £23,280.97 plus 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest for the amount of overpayment of contributions 
calculated for each year until the date of settlement, after offsetting the amount of 
underpayment of contributions as described above in my findings.
Zurich had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Mr Ss representative was 
pleased I shared his view that 8% simple interest was appropriate. But he didnt think that it 
was appropriate to deduct from the extra payments the contributions Mr S wouldve made to 
an added years contract from 1992, but didnt, on the basis he effectively saved that money. 
Mr Ss representative said Mr S hadnt specifically saved or invested the contributions, the 
savings were dissipated in his ordinary expenditure. He drew an analogy with what he said 
was the usual approach to mortgage endowment compensation where underpayments 
arent deducted from a capital loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought very carefully about what Mr Ss representative said in response to my PD. 
But having done so, I still think my findings and provisional decision are the right ones.
And to reiterate, the application of 8% isnt just designed to compensate for higher interest 
which might have been paid on debt which wouldnt otherwise have existed  its purpose is 
to reflect a range of potential circumstances which wouldnt otherwise have existed, 
including the possibility of debt, but also including the loss of enjoyment of the money and 
potentially missed experiences. It would be very difficult to actually quantify this, but I remain 
of the view that 8% simple interest is appropriate to reflect that here.
Mr Ss representative suggests that I regarded the contributions that Mr S didnt make 
between 1992 as savings in his hands for that period, and that wasnt a correct analogy. I 
dont think I did this. I said that Mr S had had the benefit of the money which represented the 
contributions he wouldve made if hed started buying added years in 1992 instead of 2008. I 
agree that I cant say that Mr S specifically invested or saved that money in that period. But 
similarly to our approach when individuals are deprived of the benefit of the use of money, 
Mr S couldve done a range of things with the money, including having experiences he might 
not otherwise have had, saving or investing money, or borrowing less for other purposes 
than he might have. So I still think that offsetting an amount representing the contributions 
he didnt make between 1992 and 2008 against excess contributions is fair. 
Mr Ss representative has drawn my attention to what he says is our approach in mortgage 
endowment cases. I dont think the situation is comparable. In fact, the more directly 
comparable position here is that of the pension review redress methodology, whereby 
businesses were able to reduce the overall augmentation amount to account for any 
underpayment in pension contributions when comparing those made under a personal 
pension against those which would have been made in a defined benefit scheme. Since Mr 
Ss representative otherwise agrees with the approach set out in my provisional findings, and 
Zurich has made no further comment, I see no reason to change them. So I adopt my 
provisional findings for the purposes of this final decision, and they should be regarded as 
my final findings for the purposes of how to calculate interest on excess contributions. 
My final decision
Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay Mr S £23,280.97 plus interest at a rate of 8% simple 
interest for the amount of overpayment of contributions calculated for each year until the 
date of settlement, after offsetting the amount of underpayment of contributions as described 
above in my findings. 
If Zurich Assurance Ltd considers that income tax is due on the interest award, it should 
provide Mr S with a tax deduction certificate so that he may recover this from HMRC 
accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman