DRN-4003343
The complaint
Miss W complains about a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) not being of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Startline. 
The car was about eight years old at the time and the mileage on the car was around 53,000 
miles. A deposit of £1,065 was paid and the total amount payable under the agreement was 
around £7,450. Miss W was required to make 46 monthly repayments of £132.79 and then 
one final repayment of £142.79. 
Shortly after on the 1 June 2022, Miss Ws car broke down  Miss W said it wouldnt start 
and she had to instruct a recovery company to recover her car. Miss W said the car battery 
was faulty and needed to be replaced. Miss W says she took the car back to the dealership, 
despite it being an hour and a half drive for her and they replaced the battery free of charge 
as they recognised Miss W hadnt had the car for very long.
In July 2022, Miss Ws car broke down once more and it was recovered again by the 
recovery company. The company told Miss W that the replacement battery was half the size 
it needed to be and was a cheap replacement. Miss W has provided evidence of the 
recovery companys notes when they picked up Miss Ws car. The notes say one of the 
fuses in the engine bay kept blowing and that there was a suspected short on the circuit. 
When the recovery company took Miss Ws car to a nearby garage, they removed the 
dashboard to try and find what was wrong with the car. Miss W was told the dashboard 
wasnt clipped together and instead it was glued together.
Miss W says the recovery company contacted the dealership to explain what they found and 
the dealership said the warranty on the car had run out. The dealership said Miss W could 
bring the car to them at a cost, despite it being an hour and a half away from her. Miss W 
said she didnt want to do this as it was too far, so she had the car taken to a local garage 
who inspected the car and said there was an issue with the fuse box. Miss W was quoted 
£300 for a new fuse box to be fitted which she agreed to. But despite this, Miss W said the 
car still wouldnt start which meant the garage werent able to fix the fault due to the severity 
of the issue. Miss W says this caused a loss for the garage as theyd ordered in the part to 
try and fix the issue but werent able to. Miss W has provided evidence of a note she 
received from the garage which explained the issue was main fuse box in the passenger 
footwell has burnt out. 
Miss W said she then complained to the broker of the agreement about the car not starting, 
and they then contacted the dealership. Miss W says the dealership contacted her once 
more and said they were happy to take a look at the car, but that Miss W would need to pay 
to have the car towed and also for the repairs.
Miss W agreed to this and she had the car towed to the dealership which she says cost her 
£127  Miss W has provided her bank statement showing she paid this amount in August 
2022. Shortly after being inspected, Miss W received a call from the dealership who said 
they werent able to carry out any necessary repairs as Miss W had previously taken the car 
to another garage for repairs to be done  they considered these to be unauthorised repairs. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W complained to Startline. 
Miss W says despite several chasers, Startline didnt keep her updated with the status of her 
complaint. Miss W also says the dealership were contacting her, asking her to collect her car 
from their property. So, Miss W says she paid £130 to have the car towed back to her house 
on 22 September 2022 - Miss W has also provided us with a bank statement to show she 
made this payment.
Miss W says she then received a phone call from the broker who said a third-party 
inspection company was going to have a look at the car and this inspection was completed 
on 30 September 2022. Miss W didnt receive a copy of the inspection report and instead, 
received Startlines final response letter responding to her complaint.
Overall, Miss W says shes had to spend about £337 to have the car towed to and from 
garages and the dealership, despite the car not being fixed. Miss W also says she had to 
acquire a new car as she needs one for work, but that she had to continue paying for this car 
under the hire purchase agreement with Startline. Miss W says as a result of switching her 
car insurance from the faulty car to the new car, shes now having to pay double per month 
for the insurance policy. Miss W says she couldnt afford to insure both cars, so she decided 
not to insure the faulty car. As a result, Miss W received a £50 fine for not insuring the car. 
Miss W says this issue has caused her a lot of stress, upset and also sleepless nights as 
she has been worried about how this issue would be resolved. Miss W wants to reject the 
car due to it not being of satisfactory quality, to not make any further repayments and for 
Startline to refund the monthly repayments she made towards the agreement.
When the complaint came to our service, Startline recognised that the report of the 
inspection carried out in September 2022 identified an underlying issue with the car which 
would have likely been present at the point of sale. However, Startline say them nor the 
dealership were given the opportunity to inspect and rectify the issue. Instead, Startline say 
unauthorised repairs were carried out by a third party which then failed. So, Startline said 
theyd consider covering any costs, on a goodwill basis, if Miss W arranged for the repairs to 
be completed as set out in the inspection report.
Our Investigator looked into Miss Ws concerns. In summary, she said the evidence 
available pointed to issues prior to the supply of the car, which Startline were responsible for. 
Miss W asked the dealership for help when things went wrong with the car, but she wasnt 
given this help. So, our Investigator said it wasnt unreasonable for Miss W to take her car to 
a third-party garage for repairs to be considered. Our Investigator concluded the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. To resolve things, our Investigator considered that Miss W wasnt able 
to use the car from 17 July 2022 and suggested it was fairer for Miss W to reject the car as 
shed requested. Overall, our Investigator recommended Startline:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss W (bearing in mind it will need to be towed);
refund the deposit;
refund all monthly payments made from 17 July 2022, to cover the ongoing loss of 
use of the car because of the faults;
pay a further amount of £150 for the avoidable distress and inconvenience thats 
been caused due to the faulty goods;
reimburse Miss W for the insurance and road tax she paid for this car since 17 July 2022;
reimburse Miss W for the financial losses she has incurred as a result of the car 
being of unsatisfactory quality upon receipt of evidence, this includes the multiple 
towing costs and £50 fine; and
remove any adverse information from Miss Ws credit file.
For each payment Startline is either reimbursing or refunding to Miss W, our Investigator 
recommended they pay 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until the date of 
settlement. This does not include the £150 compensation payment.
Miss W agreed and provided us with evidence of the losses she suffered which we 
forwarded on to Startline. Startline didnt say whether they agreed or disagreed with our 
Investigators view and instead, said they were going to discuss matters with the introducer. 
Its not clear who Startline mean by the introducer and we asked Startline to provide any 
further comments they wanted me to consider by the given deadline. But Startline didnt 
respond. So, Ive gone on to consider this complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. I understand Startline made reference to the brokers responsibility 
on more than one occasion. But as Startline are the supplier of the goods under this hire 
purchase agreement, theyre responsible for a complaint about the quality of the goods. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be 
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a 
car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
Startline supplied Miss W with a car that was about eight years old and had travelled around 
53,000 miles when it was supplied. The price of the car was lower than it would have been if 
it had been supplied new. So, with that in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would expect that parts of the car might have already suffered wear and tear. And 
theres a greater risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which 
wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied. 
Based on the evidence I have from both parties; it seems likely there was a fault with the car. 
I say this because the independent report from September 2022 confirmed that the electrical 
connector terminals of the fuse box were corroded, the electrical pins at the fuse box were 
also corroded and that this was indicative of long-term water ingress within the fuse box or 
wiring harness. The report also explains that there were other issues with the car which 
potentially caused water during heavy rainfall to overflow into the heater box and wiring 
loom, causing the consequential damage to the internal fuse box. And that this damage most 
likely caused the non-start fault experienced by Miss W. As Ive already explained why Im persuaded the car has a fault with it, Ive next gone on to 
consider whether the goods were of satisfactory quality when they were supplied to Miss W. 
I note the inspection report refers to long term water ingress which the inspector believed 
resulted in the fuse box corroding. The report also refers to corrosion resulting in intermittent 
electrical faults and that the level of corrosion was an issue for several months, which the 
inspector said should be the responsibility of the sales agent to rectify. Given these findings, 
and the fact that corrosion itself happens over a period of time, Im persuaded these issues 
were present and developing at the point of supply. The issue presented itself shortly after 
Miss W acquired the car which resulted in Miss Ws car breaking down and not being able to 
start. I dont think a reasonable person would expect this, even having considered the cars 
age and mileage. And I dont think the car was particularly durable. 
I note Startline said Miss W allowed for an unauthorised repair to be carried out by a third 
party when they attempted to fit a new fuse box. I appreciate Startlines point, but I think its 
reasonable to suggest the issues noted in the inspection report wasnt as a result of the 
repair attempted by the third-party garage. Startline have also acknowledged themselves 
that there was an underlying issue that would have likely been present at the point of sale.
I dont think Miss Ws actions of instructing a third party to attempt to repair the issue was 
unreasonable. I say this because when Miss W contacted the dealership to ask them for 
help, she was told shed need to incur further costs to get the car to them. Miss W had also 
said the dealership wasnt local, so it wasnt unreasonable for her to find somewhere more 
local for the repair. Additionally, the independent report doesnt suggest the repair Miss W 
had carried out by the third-party garage caused damage or caused the fault to the car. In 
fact, it suggests the sales agent is responsible for rectifying the issue.
Having carefully considered all of the relevant circumstances, including the price, age and 
mileage of the car when supplied  and when the fault first happened  I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So, with this in mind, Startline need to do 
something to put things right. Startline have suggested that if Miss W arranged for the 
repairs to be carried out as detailed in the inspection report, that theyd review the costs 
incurred on a goodwill basis. However, given Miss W has already acquired a new car as she 
needs it for work and taking into account the delays and inconvenience that the repairs will 
cause, I think its fair for Miss W to reject the car. 
I can see that because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, Miss W wasnt been able to use 
it from July 2022. So, I think Miss W should get a refund for the payments she made from 
this date onwards. 
Miss W has described the impact all of this has had on her. Miss W has been caused a lot of 
stress including sleepless nights, worrying about this issue and how it would be resolved. 
Also, I think Miss W was caused inconvenience as she said she needed to use the car for 
work, but wasnt able to do this so she bought a new car. Additionally, Miss W said she 
wasnt kept updated by Startline throughout her complaint and I think it wouldve caused 
Miss W to worry even more. Im sorry to hear about the stress and worry Miss W has been 
caused. Because Startline supplied Miss W with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, I 
think Miss W has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the issue with the 
car. Overall, having considered the impact of this situation on Miss W, I think it would be fair 
for Startline to pay her £150 compensation to reflect this. 
Other losses incurredMiss W has told us she incurred other losses as well. These include the cost of having the 
car towed on more than one occasion, which I think Startline should reimburse Miss W with 
as she wouldnt have needed to have the car towed if it was of satisfactory quality. Miss W 
provided us with her bank statements showing the amounts of £127 and the £130 she paid 
on two occasions, which we forwarded on to Startline. 
I also think its fair for Startline to refund Miss W the cost of insurance and road tax she paid 
for this car from 17 July 2022 onwards as Miss W wasnt able to use the car.
 
Miss W has said she was charged a £50 fine from the driver and vehicle licensing agency as 
a result of not keeping the faulty car insured. Miss W said she was a student at the time, she 
made the business aware of this when she acquired the car and that she didnt have 
disposable income because of this. I dont find this to be unreasonable and Im persuaded by 
what Miss W has told us. So, for this reason, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Startline to reimburse Miss W of the cost of the £50 fine. Startline have also been provided 
with a copy of this fine. Lastly, I think its reasonable for Startline to pay 8% simple interest 
on these amounts, as outlined below, as theyre responsible for Miss W being unfairly 
deprived of these funds.
Putting things right
In summary, I think Startline should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss W,
refund the deposit;
refund the monthly payments Miss W made from 17 July 2022 as she wasnt able to 
use the car,
reimburse Miss W for the insurance and road tax she paid for this car from 17 July 
2022,
reimburse Miss W for the other losses she incurred, as outlined above, as a result of 
the car being of unsatisfactory quality (Startline should review the evidence we 
forwarded to them from Miss W of these losses).
Pay 8% simple interest on each payment refunded from the date of each payment 
until the date of settlement.*
pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
remove any adverse information about this agreement from Miss Ws credit file.
* If Startline Motor Finance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss W how much theyve 
taken off. They should also provide Miss W with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to carry out the actions as set out in the putting things right section of this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman