DRN-3503345
The complaint
Mr E complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) instructed a 
debt collector to collect a debt it hadnt made him aware of under his motor insurance policy.
Mr E originally complained to his broker. However, its his insurer, Markerstudy, that is 
responsible for the charges complained about. It is the correct respondent in this case.
What happened
Mr E cancelled his motor insurance policy in May 2021. A few months later he received 
contact from a debt collector. He says no information was provided about what the debt 
related to. Mr E contacted his insurer via his broker, but it told him there was no outstanding 
debt owed. Despite this he continued to receive contact from the debt collector. 
The broker says Mr E had contacted the company he previously had insurance through in 
2019. Ill call this company A. It says this policy had been cancelled in 2019 with no debt 
owing. 
As call handler didnt have access to Mr Es brokers systems to be able to identify a charge 
was outstanding. 
Markerstudy says it made an error when it cancelled Mr Es policy in May 2021. A 
cancellation fee was owed but this was calculated incorrectly. It later recalculated to correct 
its error, which left a balance of £114.12. 
Mr E says he changed address in 2020 and also needed to change his email, telephone 
number and bank card at this time. 
This meant the outstanding balance couldnt be collected and so a debt collector was 
instructed.    
In its final response letter to Mr Es complaint Markerstudy apologised for the inconvenience 
caused by its error. It says it accepts Mr E was given the impression the account had been 
closed some time ago with no outstanding balance. It offered to remove the balance of 
£114.12 from the account in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Mr E accepted the offer but subsequently referred his complaint to our service as he thought 
further compensation was due. Our investigator looked into the complaint. He says Mr E was 
offered a full and final settlement that hed accepted. He thought this had been made clear 
by the business and therefore he couldnt consider the matter further. 
Mr E didnt think this was fair. He says he didnt think by accepting this offer it prevented our 
service from awarding compensation. He asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
Why I wont be looking at this complaint 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt have the power to consider every complaint referred to it. The regulator 
- The Financial Conduct Authority  has set out what complaints this service can and cant 
look at. So, Im bound by this when deciding whether Mr Es complaint is one that can be 
considered by this service.
The rules which explain what this service can and cant consider are the Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP rules). The relevant rule here is DISP 3.3 Dismissal without consideration of 
the merits and test cases. Id like to reassure Mr E that I have read and considered the full 
rules under this section when coming to my decision. But Ive only referred to what I consider 
necessary to explain my reasoning.
The role of this service is to resolve disputes fairly and informally. Looking at all the
information available on this case, I can see that a final response was sent to Mr
E in November 2021. The letter says to accept the offer in full and final settlement of this 
complaint, Mr E should reply by email or in writing. 
In a subsequent email exchange, a few days later the business says:
In relation to the removal of the balance, this offer was made in full and final settlement of 
your complaint. I understand you wish to investigate this matter yourself before advising 
whether you wish to escalate the matter further. In turn, I have placed this balance on hold at 
this time as a goodwill gesture.
Mr E responded around an hour later to say:
Settlement, closure and immediate removal of all my details off any credit data base is 
accepted. Thank You.
A response was sent to Mr E two days later to confirm the agreed actions had been taken. 
Based on these emails, I think its clear that Mr E accepted the businesses offer in resolution 
of his complaint. 
Where a business has made an offer, that the customer has willingly accepted in full and 
final settlement of their complaint, this service doesnt consider it fair to look at such a 
complaint again. 
I am satisfied that the offer made to Mr E was in full and final settlement of his complaint and 
he accepted the offer on that basis. So, Im dismissing this complaint without further 
consideration of the merits. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed, but when considering the rules and the 
circumstances of the complaint, this isnt something this service can look into further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am dismissing Mr Es complaint without further 
consideration of the merits. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman