DRN-3481475
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) voided her policy due to 
concerns about the legitimacy of a claim she made for a damaged laptop, under her home 
contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs A made a claim to RSA after her daughter damaged her laptop 
computer. She says the process was taking a long time and her daughter needed a 
replacement laptop for an online interview. Mrs A says she called RSA to withdraw her claim 
and told it she would buy another laptop because of the delay. 
Mrs A says RSA told her this was fine, and she neednt respond to the questions she had 
been asked in relation to her claim. She later discovered her policy had been voided. She 
says this didnt make sense as her claim had been withdrawn. Mrs A complained to RSA 
and was told if she engaged with its specialist her policy would be reinstated. She says she 
has struggled to receive responses since this time.   
RSA says it identified some concerns about Mrs As claim and instructed its specialist, I will 
refer to as S, to investigate. It says genuine concerns were highlighted about the damage 
due to a change in circumstances when the claim was registered. RSA says it has the right 
to investigate any potential concerns to prevent fraud, which it says is common practice in 
the industry. 
RSA says S requested further information from Mrs A, and she spoke to its claims team to 
understand more about the information being requested. It contacted S about this and was 
waiting for it to respond to be able to provide Mrs A with accurate information. It says it 
called to tell her this and Mrs A explained she wanted to withdraw her claim due to the stress 
it had caused her. 
RSA says it hasnt got a recording of the call with Mrs A. But it says its notes are clear that 
its claims team relayed Mrs As comments onto S. It says its claims team has no authority to 
decide if a policy should be reinstated. It says it can only assume Mrs A was advised not to 
respond to S as an email had already been sent confirming she wished to no longer pursue 
her claim. 
RSA says S still has concerns surrounding the validity of the claim, and a misrepresentation 
regarding Mrs As residency. It says if she is willing to cooperate with S, and its 
subsequently satisfied with the circumstances of the claim, it will override the void decision. 
But it isnt willing to offer renewal terms for a further period of insurance because of the 
misrepresentation about Mrs As residency.
Mrs A didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He says the withdrawal of a claim doesnt necessarily mean that 
investigations will stop. He says that RSA may not want to continue providing insurance if a 
claim has been made fraudulently. He thought RSA behaved reasonably in asking Mrs A for 
further information in line with her policy terms. 
Our investigator says that as Mrs A didnt provide the evidence requested, RSA behaved 
reasonably in voiding the policy. He says there is no evidence to support Mrs As view that it 
was reasonable for her not to respond to S. And fair notice of the intention to void the policy 
had been given. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for RSA to consider removing 
the voidance if Mrs A re-engaged and provided the evidence it needed. 
Mrs A maintains that she was told she neednt respond to S. She says she has tried 
contacting it but has received no response. Because she remained unhappy Mrs A asked for 
an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Based on the records provided, when Mrs A made her claim for the damaged laptop, RSA 
identified several points of concern with the information it had received. This is why it 
appointed S to look into the matter. 
S spoke to Mrs A and her daughter on the phone early in March 2021. It asked for 
information to validate the claim, including proof of purchase of the laptop and photos of the 
damage. It says Mrs A provided this, but the information wasnt original, and the proof of 
purchase photo had been edited. It says it called again and asked for original unedited 
versions and Mrs A responded with the further information requested and an explanation. 
S says it spoke with Mrs A again around a week later. It explained further information and 
comments were needed to be able to validate the claim. 
S wrote to Mrs A on 12 March 2021 setting out a list of information it needed as well as 
further explanations it required. This included concerns about the location where the damage 
had occurred, who owned the laptop, why Mrs A and her daughters account of events 
differed regarding a pre-existing fault, if the insured address was Mrs As permanent 
residence, and how the damage had occurred. 
The letter explains that Mrs As policy requires her to present all claims openly, fully and 
honestly. Failure to comply with this requirement may be, fatal to the claim. It asks that Mrs 
A provides her response within 14 days via telephone or email. The letter says that, failure 
to respond could result in action being taken on your policy for non-cooperation.
I have thought about whether RSA treated Mrs A fairly when requesting further information 
and clarification about her claim. The policy terms, under the section entitled, Policy 
Conditions say:
Fraud: 
If your family, or anyone acting on behalf of you or your family, uses dishonesty,
exaggeration or false documentation to obtain or support:
 a claims payment under your policy, or
 cover for which you do not qualify, or
 cover at a reduced premiumall benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be
entitled to have your premium refunded, and legal action may be taken against you.  
Its clear RSA had concerns about the validity of the claim, which is set out in the letter dated 
12 March 2021. Its reasonable for an insurer to be able to validate a claim. If it isnt able to 
do so and/or it suspects the claim could be fraudulent its reasonable that it takes steps to 
obtain clarification. This is what RSA did here and because the information it requested 
wasnt provided by Mrs A, it voided her policy. 
Mrs A says that when she spoke to RSA and told it she wanted to withdraw her claim, she 
was told she neednt contact S again, but would still have insurance in place. I have thought 
carefully about what happened here based on the evidence provided. 
RSA states it doesnt have a call recording from the time Mrs A spoke to its claims team. But 
it has provided its call logs. I have read the call logs RSA refers to. On the date in question 
two calls were recorded. These were around half an hour apart. The note says Mrs A didnt 
understand why S wanted more information. The claims team called S and were told an 
email had been sent to Mrs A as a few points needed clarifying. S told the claims team it 
would send the email it had sent Mrs A for it to look at. The claims team then contacted Mrs 
A to say it would call her again once this email was received.
Around half an hour later the records show the claims team contacted Mrs A again. It hadnt 
received the email from S. But says it would make contact once it had. The log note says 
Mrs A wasnt happy with the whole process and wanted to withdraw her claim as it was 
causing too much stress for her and her daughter. The notes say the claims team would 
advise S of what Mrs A had said. 
From the records I cant see that Mrs A was told she neednt respond to S with the 
information it had requested. I dont dispute Mrs As recollection of what was said, but I dont 
have evidence to confirm this. What is clear is that Mrs A received a letter warning her of the 
action that could be taken if she didnt respond to Ss request for information. I think the 
letter is clear as to what Mrs A needed to do to avoid this. 
I acknowledge Mrs As comments that she had withdrawn her claim. But this doesnt mean 
that RSA would stop its investigation where it suspected fraud. RSA had to consider whether 
it wanted to continue providing insurance cover in these circumstances. By no means am I 
saying Mrs A had made a fraudulent claim. But I dont think RSA acted unreasonably given 
the lack of evidence to validate the concerns it had about the circumstances of the claim.    
S wrote to Mrs A in April 2021 to say it hadnt received the information it had requested, and 
that its earlier correspondence highlighted action could be taken in these circumstances. The 
letter says the matter has been referred to RSAs underwriters who confirmed the policy has 
been voided as of the date of the claim. 
In its complaint response RSA explained that if Mrs A chose to engage with S, it was willing 
to consider whether the voided policy should be overridden. 
In the circumstances I think this is fair. Mrs A is concerned about the impact the voided 
policy has had on her ability to obtain insurance. This can potentially be avoided if she 
provides the necessary information for RSA to be able to validate her claim. I note Mrs As 
comments that she has tried to do this but has experienced difficulties. This isnt part of her 
original complaint to RSA. So, Im unable to consider it here. But RSA has confirmed it will 
reconsider its decision if Mrs A can provide the information and clarification it needs. It 
should ensure that it engages with Mrs A if she makes contact.In considering all of this, I dont think RSA treated Mrs A unfairly when relying on its policy 
terms to void the policy because of its concerns about the circumstances of her claim. I think 
it has been fair in offering to re-consider its decision if Mrs A is able to provide the 
information it requires. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman