DRN-3616357
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
(L&G)s handling of a claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2021 Miss W notified her insurer L&G of an escape of water in her home. In 
September 2021 L&G accepted Miss Ws claim. Stripping out and drying out works were 
completed by L&Gs approved contractors in October 2021. 
Due to a delay in arranging for reinstatement works to be done, Miss W asked for the 
remainder of her claim to be settled by way of a cash settlement as she could arrange for the 
works to be done sooner. 
L&G paid a cash settlement minus the excess due for the claim. 
Miss W complained to L&G about the delay it caused. It upheld her complaint as it accepted 
it had caused unnecessary delay in arranging reinstatement works. L&G apologised and 
paid Miss W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss W remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Miss W explained to us 
that although she could use the bathroom, the flooring was difficult to access and she had to 
put temporary materials down in order to safely access the room. 
Miss W said she wouldnt have gone ahead with a cash settlement option if L&G could have 
arranged repairs within a reasonable timeframe. Miss W says it cost her much more than the 
cash settlement L&G paid which she thinks is unfair.
Our Investigator thought L&G should meet the costs Miss W paid for the repairs to her 
bathroom and reimburse Miss W with interest. She thought L&G was responsible for the 
delay which led to Miss Ws decision to arrange repairs  and she thought this decision was 
a reasonable one for Miss W to have made. 
L&G didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. It said it could have carried out the 
works at a later date and didnt force Miss W to make her own arrangements and accept a 
cash settlement. 
L&G has provided its Surveyors comments on the cost of the works which Miss W paid a 
contractor for. The Surveyor says the works match aside from the cost to replace two doors. 
The Surveyor thought they didnt need replacing as they found the door frames were water 
damaged, but not the doors. The remaining difference is in the labour rates  as the insurer 
has preferential rates which brings down the costs on their schedule of works. 
Miss W accepted the investigators view. As L&G didnt agree, the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the Surveyor has commented on the difference between the cost Miss W paid her 
contractor to their Schedule of Works (SOW). In their opinion the initial SOW was below the 
amount it would have cost to complete reinstatement works. It says a fair estimate for the 
works would be around £2,500.
The quote provided by Miss W came to £3,250 + VAT. The Surveyor commented as follows:
Have looked at SOW, and contractors quote. All items on both are almost the same, 
with the exception of x2 new doors being added to the contractors quote. At the time 
of our visit there didn't appear to be any water damage to the doors, only the 
framework. The door was only sticking due to floor expansion
There is no matching item issue on this claim, all floor tiles and been included.
The big difference between the two, are the rates.
I think the reason why Miss W asked for the cash settlement in this case is significant. L&G 
accepts that it was responsible for a delay in being able to arrange for a contractor to carry 
out the reinstatement works to Miss Ws bathroom. This delay is what led Miss W to make 
the decision to accept a cash settlement  as she was able to make her own arrangements 
sooner and she was living with the inconvenience of limited access and use of her bathroom 
since September 2021. 
So in this case I think the fairest outcome is for L&G to meet the remaining costs Miss W 
paid for repairs to her bathroom in full. I think its reasonable that the doors were water 
damaged and required replacing. As the remaining difference relates to the labour rates, I 
dont think its fair for Miss W to pay the difference. I think she made a reasonable decision in 
the circumstances and isnt responsible for the delay caused by L&G in arranging repairs by 
an approved contractor  at their preferential rates. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading 
as Legal & General to do the following:
Reimburse Miss W for the remaining costs to carry out repairs to her 
bathroom under the claim she made for an escape of water. 
Pay interest on the reimbursement (subject to reasonable to proof of payment 
from Miss W) 
Pay a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment to the date 
of reimbursement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman