DRN-3848349
The complaint
Mr F has complained that T&R Direct Ltd (T&R), an insurance broker, provided an 
inadequate service in arranging an unoccupied property owners insurance policy for him 
which amounted to a mis-sale.
What happened
Unfortunately, Mr F suffered the theft of new kitchen appliances from his home in December 
2021. He was not in occupation at the time as his home was being renovated and was 
awaiting installation of the appliances which had been delivered to his home and were still in 
their original packaging.
T&R were the brokers who arranged Mr Fs unoccupied property owners insurance policy in 
June 2021. Mr F felt that T&R hadnt adequately explained the terms and conditions of the 
policy and that as a result, he wasnt covered for theft. Hed expected a policy that would 
provide the same cover as his previous policy. T&R considered that no policy would provide 
matching cover in such circumstances and that it had arranged the new policy on a non-
advised basis. Mr F therefore referred his complaint to this service as he felt strongly that 
T&R had failed to provide an adequate service or a policy that met his needs.
The services investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said that the proposal form for 
the new policy and signed by Mr F explained what was covered by standard cover. This 
didnt include theft and Mr F didnt choose an extension to the policy to cover theft when the 
property was going to be vacant for a period. The investigator also concluded that T&R 
hadnt arranged the policy for Mr F on an advised basis.
Mr F was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether T&R as an insurance broker provided an unfair or 
unreasonable service to Mr F, and I cant say that it did so. Ill explain my reasoning after 
setting out the cases for both parties.
I turn first to Mr Fs submissions and evidence. Mr F wanted T&R to pay him the value of his 
claim, being approximately £10,000. Mr F provided full background details. He said that the 
crime had been immediately reported upon discovery, a crime reference number was issued 
by the police and the theft was also promptly reported to T&R. Mr F thought that T& R had 
failed in the role of broker and hadnt provided reasonable support to him. He thought it had 
been responsible for gross incompetency
Firstly, he said that T&R had recommended an unsuitable policy which didnt meet his needs 
as a client or match the policy he previously had in place. The only changes hed needed 
were to recognise the change of status of the property to unoccupied and to recognise a 
change in the level of contents cover. Mr F said that T&R claimed to specialise in providing 
the insurance needs for customers and felt it hadnt met that essential service requirement 
in merely sending me a misleading and poorly structured form to complete. In summary, he 
said that T&R ineptly advised and indeed, T&R directed to me take the policy.
Secondly, Mr F felt that it was reasonable to think that standard policy cover would include 
cover for theft. He said hed specifically requested T&R to provide the same level of cover as 
his previous contents cover. He accepted however that the premiums were higher, to cover 
fewer household items due to the unoccupied status. He complained that T&R had failed to 
categorically advise that the policy had less cover than his existing policy. Mr F also thought 
that T&R should have checked the proposal form to make sure that hed completed it 
correctly. He made the point that the previous policy had also been arranged by T&R. He 
said: - at no point was it made clear to me that the new policy was deficient nor that a 
standard policy would exclude the essential insurance coverage for theft which he said was 
a major exclusion. He added that T&R had a duty to advise clearly if there were any aspects 
of the coverage that were substantially less than what the existing occupied policy offered. 
Thirdly, Mr F complained that T&R had made verbal and written representations that the 
claim would be settled and had assured him that it was just a matter of time and processing 
which had been delayed by Covid-19. He thought that T&R had no idea of the extent of the 
policy coverage it had arranged, either when the claim was made or subsequently. Mr F said 
that T&R had submitted the claim to the underwriter, confirmed it had chased it, and gave 
no indication to doubt full settlement of the claim would be made less any excess.
Finally, Mr F considered that T&R had mis-sold the policy to him and had done so on an 
advised basis. He said hed entirely relied upon T&Rs advice that the policy was 
appropriate. Mr F said he wasnt told either verbally or, more appropriately, in written 
correspondence that this was a non-advised sale. 
He concluded by saying that T&R had spent more time and care refuting liability than in 
advising correctly of the nature of the policy and its limitations. 
Mr F had also engaged the services of his own insurance adviser regarding the matter. The 
adviser made additional points and said that Mr F had read the policy which was at the 
centre of the dispute. It was his view that a particular clause of that policy fully satisfies us 
that theft WAS included as part of the policy He said that it was T&Rs dutyto highlight 
that theft, being an integral part of the...[policy]was a MAJOR exclusionthat T&R Direct 
advised [Mr F] to take. The adviser considered that this reinforced Mr Fs reasonable 
understanding of the cover provided by the policy T&R had arranged. He also considered 
that there was no evidence that this was a non-advised policy and said Mr F was reliant on 
T&Rs advice as his established insurance broker. In any event, he thought that T&R should 
have sold Mr F a Residential Unoccupied policy with a works extension and not an 
unoccupied property owners policy, which he thought was appropriate for landlords.
I now turn to T&Rs submissions and evidence in response to Mr Fs complaint. Firstly, as to 
whether T&R had recommended an unsuitable policy, it noted that Mr F had previously held 
a standard household policy and that Mr F had telephoned to confirm that he was due to 
have major works done to his property. It had explained that his current policy would not 
cover non-occupancy pending works and that there would be a need to look elsewhere for a 
different type of insurance cover. It said that an alternative insurer agreed to arrange cover 
but had requested that Mr F completed a proposal form. T&R said;- No issues or concerns 
were queried prior or post completion of the form and therefore must act on the information 
provided by yourself from this form.Secondly, T&R said the following in response to Mr Fs complaint that it had failed to advise 
that the policy had less cover than his existing policy. It said that it was informed by the 
insurer that Mr F was required to complete the form and that Mr F completed and signed it. 
This would enable the insurer to understand Mr Fs particular requirements and the level of 
cover needed. Hed ticked the first level of cover, being standard cover, which was defined 
in the form, and didnt include cover for theft. He also didnt opt for available theft cover. T&R 
said that the previous policy ran to its end date but that the cover wouldn't have offered 
protection, as it was for an occupied property. It said that it couldnt advise on the 
appropriate level of cover as only Mr F knew what contents would remain at the property. 
T&R said that by its nature, a vacant property undergoing renovation presented a different 
risk to the previous risk, and the underwriting criteria would be different, so the form provided 
a full representation of the risk. In returning the form, Mr F had said I have completed and 
signed the Unoccupied Property Insurance Form and hope this gives you and the 
underwriter all that you need. The proposal form also included the following wording; - if you 
are in any doubt as to the completeness and accuracy of the statements and facts you are 
providing you should consult with your Insurance advisor. It said that Mr F also had the 
opportunity to review his policy documents, and also had the usual cooling-off period to raise 
any queries or concerns.
As to Mr Fs complaint about T&Rs failure to alert and advise him that the new policy was 
deficient in comparison with the pre-existing policy and that it specifically excluded theft, 
T&R said that it had acted in accordance with Mr Fs proposal, and he hadnt requested 
cover for theft. It said that when listening to the relevant call recording, Mr F had confirmed 
when taking out the policy that there was nothing of substantial value left at the property, 
onlyoffice equipment, furniture and books and that no personal items or jewellery and 
nothing of great value will be within the property and any items are to be locked in a room on 
the third floor. It didnt agree that Mr F had specifically requested the same level of cover in 
all respects as his previous policy.
Thirdly, T&R addressed Mr Fs point that, as it took over two months for T&R to realise that 
Mr F wouldnt be covered by the unoccupied property insurance policy, this showed that it 
didnt have a clear understanding of the policy. T&Rs response was that the underwriters 
were the only ones that could say whether a claim was valid or to be repudiated. It said;- 
T&R do not have claims authority and the final decision to pay any claims are at the 
liability of the claims team appointed by the insurer. It said that as T&R wasn't authorised to 
process claims, it had to contact the insurer for an outcome on the status of the claim. As to 
the fact that it had chased progress, T&R said this wasnt evidence that it thought that the 
claim would be paid by the insurers but an acknowledgement that because of the delay, it 
would push the claim through for a decision.
Finally, as to whether T&R had mis-sold the policy on an advised basis, T&R said that the 
policy was sold on a non-advised basis as the proposal form had been completed by Mr F 
and; - no advice was given on the cover levels chosen and no questions were asked by Mr 
F on the cover level opted for. In short, it said that it had acted on Mr Fs instructions. T&R 
acknowledged that if it had provided advice on what portions of the form should be 
completed, it would have been an advised sale, but said that this was not the case. In 
relation to one additional administrative point raised, Mr F had said that hed been offered a 
goodwill gesture by T&R when it realised that the policy was inadequate and that this was 
an instant declaration of guilt In this respect, T&R stated that this wasnt an admission of 
a mis-sale but related to the return of premiums by the insurer following mid-term 
cancellation.
I now turn to the reasons why Ive reached the final decision that T&R hasnt acted in an 
unfair or unreasonable manner here. I fully appreciate the distress which Mr F experienced following theft of new and expensive appliances. I also appreciate that Mr F will be frustrated 
and angered that his insurance claim has been declined and I note that the decline is a 
matter of separate complaint. I will now deal with each element of the current complaint.
Whether T&R recommended an unsuitable policy
I note that Mr F had informed T&R of the proposed works and the fact that the property 
would be unoccupied. T&R then identified the fact that Mr Fs existing home insurance policy 
would be unlikely to cover him due to non-occupation. It sought to source an insurer to 
provide an alternative policy, in this case an unoccupied property owners policy. In 
summary, its clear that T&R advised Mr F that a standard home insurance policy would no 
longer cover him as the property would be unoccupied and it attempted to assist to find a 
suitable policy.
I note that Mr Fs adviser considered that a different type of policy would be more 
appropriate, namely a Residential Unoccupied policy with a works extension. Its not 
necessary for me to determine which of these types of policy would have been preferable as 
I dont consider the policy opted for to be inherently unsuitable. Im satisfied that the policy 
did cover scenarios where the property was unoccupied, whether as landlord or as 
residential owner. As to works, I note Mr F had indicated that he wished to avoid duplication 
and that the relevant builder had insurance in place. The relevant policy terms and 
conditions determine the cover and purpose of the policy, and the proposal form offered the 
opportunity of cover for theft. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that T&R didnt treat Mr F in an unfair or unreasonable 
manner in sourcing and identifying cover under an unoccupied property owners policy.
Whether T&R should have advised that theft wasnt covered
. 
Im satisfied that it would have been apparent that non-occupation was a significant matter in 
view of T&Rs indication that Mr Fs current home insurance policy wouldnt cover him. Its 
also clear that theft would be a more significant peril where a property wasnt occupied. Its 
therefore reasonable that Mr F should have appreciated that the standard cover for a new 
and different type of policy didnt automatically offer like for like cover. Mr F ticked in hand-
writing the standard cover paragraph which had a clear definition, and this didnt include 
theft. He also opted not to tick the extended cover boxes, one of which clearly referred to 
theft as a peril for extended cover. The complaint suggests that T&R should have checked 
the form, to make sure that Mr F had completed it correctly. I disagree, as Mr F had made 
clear, hand-written choices for a new and different type of policy to cover the altered 
circumstances. 
Standard cover is defined as including fire, lightning, explosion, aircraft only. The word 
only emphasises the limitations in cover. The extended cover and option heading, shown in 
bold, includes theft, however this was not chosen by Mr F, and I cant therefore hold T&R 
responsible for this choice. I also note that Mr F gave the proposal form some thought as 
hed added in some hand-written comments. From the form and his e-mail exchanges with 
T&R, Mr F appeared to be clear and confident in his understanding of the policy cover and 
about his requirements. T&R had made it clear that if there was anything else it could do to 
help, then Mr F should let it know. He didnt reach out for assistance, and Im therefore 
satisfied that Mr F made an informed choice. I further note that the policy schedule was sent 
through to Mr F and there is a clear instruction in that document for policyholders to carefully 
read it. Mr Fs adviser confirms that Mr F had read this document.
It also appears that Mr F had actively considered the question of security and whether he 
needed cover for theft as follows: - nothing of substantial value left at the property, only your office equipment, furniture and books and that no personal items or jewellery and nothing of 
great value will be within the property and any items are to be locked in a room on the third 
floor. This supports the conclusion that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for T&R to consider 
that Mr F had satisfied himself as to the need or otherwise for theft cover and didnt require 
further assistance before finalising his wishes. Whilst Mr F specifically requested advice on 
some aspects, such as the level of excess to be paid and the level of financial cover, I note 
that he didnt seek any specific advice on the question of theft as an insured peril.
I dont however consider that it was fair for T&R to suggest that Mr F specifically opted 
against theft cover. It may well be the case that he did so by mistake, and possibly hadnt 
fully read what he was completing and signing. On balance however, I dont consider that 
T&R acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner by not specifically pointing out that theft 
wasnt included as standard, or by not double-checking Mr Fs understanding with him after 
hed completed and signed the form.
Whether T&R had made representations that the claim would be settled
Im satisfied that as T&R was acting as insurance broker, it would have been unable to 
determine whether a claim would ultimately be paid or declined. I do consider that it would 
have been helpful however, if T&R had identified to Mr F at the point of claim that he hadnt 
opted for theft cover in his proposal form. This would have managed Mr Fs expectations as 
to whether his claim would be paid. Nevertheless, I dont consider that this observation as to 
how T&R could have achieved best practice merits an award of compensation.
Whether T&R had mis-sold the policy to him and had done so on an advised basis
A mis-sale is usually deemed to occur where a customer is unhappy with what they bought 
or where that product wasnt the right thing for them. In this case, as above, I cant say that 
the product was inherently unsuitable. The policy was indeed capable of covering theft as a 
peril and in the scenario which occurred here. The difficulty arose however during the 
proposal stage as Mr F didnt opt for this cover, again as discussed above. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider that T&R mis-sold the policy in question. 
As to advised and non-advised sales, again the service has a settled approach. If a sale is 
advised, it will normally say so in the documentation given to the consumer, and Ive not 
seen any evidence that this is the case here. Ive also considered whether T&Rs actions 
gave the impression that it was recommending that Mr F proceed with the policy but without 
theft cover. I dont consider that it did. It provided information and a proposal form to Mr F, 
leaving it to him to decide if the policy was suitable to meet his needs. I also consider that 
the information in the proposal form was clear and easy to understand, allowing the 
consumer to decide what level of cover was appropriate.
Ive also carefully considered the question of whether the proposal form and the resulting 
policy was unusual or exceptional, so triggering a requirement for T&R to specifically draw 
Mr Fs attention to the different options within the proposal form. I agree that it would be 
unusual for a home insurance policy not to include theft cover as standard, however this is 
not the case for non-occupied properties, as above. As the occupation status was different, 
the available policy was also very different. I consider that the onus would then fall upon the 
consumer to ensure that all elements of cover were suitable for their needs. If T&R had 
provided full advice about completion of the form, I think there would then have been an 
additional duty on it to ensure that the policy it had identified was suitable for Mr Fs needs. 
However, this is not the case. Im therefore satisfied that the policy was sold on a non-
advised basis. Whilst T&R selected the unoccupied property owners policy as a likely route 
for cover, the proposal form and policy were sent to Mr F so that he could assure himself 
that the cover was appropriate. This also enabled Mr F to select the cover needed and make an informed decision as to whether he wanted to proceed with the policy or not. T&R didnt 
conduct this process on his behalf, and this also points to a non advised sale. 
Mr F argued that he was reliant on T&Rs advice as his broker. However, I conclude that Mr 
F was capable and robust in his correspondence and would have been willing to ask for 
assistance had he considered anything to be unclear or missing from the cover hed 
selected. The new insurer identified the need to fill a proposal form, before offering any 
insurance, and the declaration on the form clearly indicated that the onus then fell upon Mr F 
to complete the form correctly, with the assistance of his broker if hed asked for it. 
In summary, I note that Mr F accepted that T&R had deferred completion of the form to him, 
he didnt seek advice on its completion or on the contents of the policy having read it and Im 
therefore satisfied that completion of the insurance proposal, and acceptance that the policy 
fulfilled his needs were conducted on a non-advised basis. As an unoccupied property 
presents clearly different risks to occupied property, Im satisfied that a consumer would wish 
to take care to ensure that they check the position carefully before signing any declaration. 
Mr F took responsibility for completing and signing the form and didnt take opportunities to 
query the cover or ask for any clarification and received no advice from T&R in this respect. 
The question of whether theft is covered in the policy is the subject of a separate complaint. 
Whether its determined that such complaint should or shouldnt be upheld, Im satisfied that 
T&R didnt mis-sell the policy to Mr F and when it arranged the policy for Mr F, I consider in 
all the circumstances, that it did so on a non-advised basis. I cant therefore say that T&R 
acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner here. 
In all the circumstances, I wont be asking T&R to do anything else in response to this 
complaint and I consider this to be a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and I dont require T&R Direct 
Ltd to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman