DRN-3972378
The complaint
Ms P and Mr T complain that Starling Bank Limited closed their account without providing 
them notice of closure.
What happened
Ms P and Mr T had a personal joint bank account which they were actively using with 
Starling. On 28 January 2022, they said Starling closed their account without any 
notification, even though Starling claimed to send them emails and in-application (app) 
messages. Ms P and Mr T made a complaint to Starling. 
Starling did not uphold Ms P and Mr Ts complaint. They said they had sent communication 
to their Starling app on 1 November 2021 and another one on 15 November 2021 notifying 
them of Starlings intention to close the account on 14 January 2022. They said there had 
been other messages sent since then regarding this. Starling said that under the terms and 
conditions of the account, they can withdraw banking facilities by giving them notice in 
writing, and in line with company policy. Ms P and Mr T brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ps and Mr Ts complaint. He said the evidence showed 
Starling sent them in-app messages in November 2021 and then in January 2022 informing 
them of the closure. He said the terms and conditions stated that Starling can close an 
account with two months written notice. And Starling gave them notice of closure on 15 
November 2021 as they believed Ms P and Mr T were using the account for business 
purposes.
Ms P and Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said they never received the in-app messages that Starling sent 
them, they said Starling originally told them that they sent them an email about the closure 
and an in-app message, and now they just say it was an in-app message, but they have 
provided no evidence that the message was delivered.
When I started my investigation into the complaint, Starling told me that due to Ms P and Mr 
T not setting up an email address on their personal joint account, they only sent messages 
via in-app notification. Starling said as they could have identified that they only had one form 
of communication set up on their account, they could have done more to reach out to them. 
So they offered them £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ms P and Mr T 
rejected this offer. They said they also requested a reinstatement of the account for a few 
days, which Starling rejected, which caused them a lot of inconvenience and delayed 
payments.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P and Mr T have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Ive considered the screenshots that Ms P and Mr T have provided us. It appears that the 
screenshots of the emails Ms P and Mr T have sent us are not emails from the personal joint 
account. I say this because Starling have sent me a list of the 14 in-app notifications they 
have sent Ms P and Mr T between 1 November 2021  2 November 2021 and Ive cross 
referenced them with the screenshot Ms P and Mr T sent me. None of the in-app 
notifications show on the emails. This would support what Starling have said that there was 
no email set up on the personal joint account. So it would appear that the emails they 
received from Starling were for their sole accounts. 
It appears the only time Ms P and Mr T were aware the personal joint account had been 
closed is when they logged into the app on 28 January 2022 and saw the account was not 
there and then raised the complaint. As they raised the complaint, its then likely the email 
addresses were linked and thats why they received a closing statement later that day with 
an email letting them know this.
Starling have proved that they sent the in-app message on 1 November 2021 at 17:57:13. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Ms P and Mr T did not receive this message. And I 
dont doubt what theyve told us about not receiving the message. But as none of the 
notifications were showing in the app screenshot they sent me, this would suggest that the 
app settings had been changed which would prevent them from receiving in-app 
notifications. 
I say this because the screenshot Ms P and Mr T sent us of their Starling inbox for the 
personal joint account shows recent contact they have made with Starling and any document 
changes such as changes to the terms and conditions, which are displayed differently to in-
app notifications. And Starling have confirmed to me that the in-app messages cant be 
deleted. So I cant hold Starling responsible for the delivery of an in-app notification, when 
they have proven to have sent the notification, as the delivery of a notification may be out of 
their control such as the app settings or a customers phone settings. There is no 
requirement for Starling to track delivery of their in-app notifications they send to their 
customers. 
Ive considered what Ms P and Mr T have said about Starling not reinstating the account for 
a few days, which caused them a lot of inconvenience and delayed payments. But I would 
not expect Starling to re-open the account once it had been closed, when they had given the 
required notice, so I cant say they did anything wrong by not reinstating the account, even 
for a few days.
But I do think Starling have let Ms P and Mr T down on occasions. I say this as Ms P and Mr 
T say they were told by Starling that Starling had notified them of the closure by email, but 
as Starling have stated there was no email address registered for the personal joint account, 
then this wouldnt have been possible for them to be notified this way. So this would have 
been frustrating for them to hear this, when Starling later said it was just the in-app 
notifications they had sent them about the closure.
Starling have admitted that they could have done more to reach out to them when there was 
no email address registered on the joint account. As Starling have admitted they could have 
done more to reach out to them, Im satisfied that had they done so, then Ms P and Mr T 
could have closed the personal joint account down in plenty of time, which could have prevented the impact that this had on them as opposed to seeing on 28 January that the 
joint account was missing from the app. 
So Ive considered what compensation would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I know Ms P and Mr T rejected the £150 offer from Starling due to the 
distress and inconvenience that the closure of the account had on them, but Im satisfied that 
this amount of compensation is fair. It may help if I explain to Ms P and Mr T that 
compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. 
As Ms P and Mr T would have needed to have opened a new joint account and changed the 
payments, the difference here would be the speed by which they needed to do so. I cant 
hold Starling responsible for how long a third party account takes to be opened. Ms P and Mr 
T have told us that some of their payments were 2-4 weeks late, which would have been 
distressing. And this could have been avoided if Starling had reached out to them earlier in 
the process, so Im persuaded that £150 compensation would reflect the impact this had on 
them and the incorrect information about them being told they were sent an email about the 
notice of closure of their joint account. So it follows, I intend to ask Starling to put things right 
for Ms P and Mr T.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Starling accepted my provisional decision. Ms P and Mr T did not respond to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Starling Bank Limited to pay Ms P and Mr T £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Starling Bank Limited should pay Ms P and Mr T £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman