DRN-2012780
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms H complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt treat them fairly when the term of 
their interest only mortgage expired. Mr H has managed the complaint throughout. He asks 
that the term is extended while they sell the house, and direct debit payments are re-
instated.
What happened
Mr and Ms H took out an interest-only mortgage in 2006. The mortgage term expired in 
September 2018. Clydesdale extended the term for 12 months to allow them more time to 
sell the property. An ombudsman issued a decision in March 2019 saying this was fair.
By August 2019 Mr and Ms H hadnt sold their property. Clydesdale didnt agree to extend 
the term further. Mr H says it had previously agreed to extend the term again if they couldnt 
sell the property. Mr H asked Clydesdale for additional borrowing of about £1m, which it 
declined. Mr and Ms H brought a complaint about this to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Clydesdale 
had already extended the term and it wasnt fair to require it to do so again. Mr and Ms H 
had found a buyer for the property and Clydesdale hadnt taken recovery action. Our 
investigator said Clydesdale hadnt been unfair when it declined Mr Hs request for further 
borrowing.
Mr and Ms H didnt agree. Mr H explained the complaint and their circumstances in some 
detail. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An ombudsman issued a decision about the expiry of Mr and Ms Hs mortgage in March 
2019. I will only be looking into events since then.
Mr and Ms H have an interest-only mortgage with Clydesdale. The term has expired and 
theres an unpaid balance of about £800,000. Mr and Ms H agreed to sell the property in 
early 2020 for about £1,600,000. The sale was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and 
related Government restrictions but is now progressing.
Mr and Ms H divorced in 2017 and Ms H lives at a different address. Mr H says the court 
awarded Ms H 80% of the equity in the property. Mr H asked Clydesdale for additional 
borrowing on an interest only basis of about £1m so he could pay the value of Ms Hs share 
of the property to her. Mr H also asked for the term of the existing mortgage to be extended.
Mr H says his repayment strategies are the equity in the secured property, a buy-to-let 
property with equity of about £300,000, and his business which he says is worth about 
£500,000. 
Clydesdale declined Mr Hs requests for additional borrowing and a further term extension.
The FCA sets out in its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for 
interest only mortgages, repayment strategy before lenders agree to enter into or vary 
mortgages.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers best interests. 
Neither of these exceptions apply if theres additional borrowing  which is what Mr H wants. 
So Clydesdale had to assess both the affordability of the borrowing and Mr Hs repayment 
strategy. Clydesdale says Mr Hs proposals dont meet its criteria. Mr H doesnt agree. But I 
dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined Mr Hs application for 
further borrowing.
This leaves the possibility of the existing mortgage being extended, without any additional 
borrowing. Clydesdale could offer this  despite any concerns about affordability or the 
repayment strategy  if it would be in Mr and Ms H best interests. 
Ms H no longer lives at the property and, from what Mr H has said, the court awarded her 
the larger share of its value in the divorce proceedings. Ms H hasnt been actively involved in 
the complaint. But I think its reasonable to assume shed like to receive these funds as soon 
as reasonably possible. Clydesdale didnt agree to lend Mr H another £1m and it seems Mr 
H doesnt have the means to pay these funds to Ms H, except through the sale of the 
property.
Mr H says he has a mortgage qualification, works in compliance, and has contacts in the 
industry. So its likely hes already looked into whether he has options other than to sell the 
property. If not, he could consider taking independent advice.
Otherwise, at the moment, Mr and Ms H have enough equity in the property to repay the 
mortgage and have funds left to help secure new homes. They have a buyer for the 
property. Mr H says the value of the property has fallen and, as hes pointed out, the 
property market can be affected by political and other events. Theres no guarantee the 
value of the property wont fall further in future. This could leave Mr and Ms H worse off at 
the end of an extended term. And theyd have paid more interest in the meantime.
Overall, I dont think its clearly in Mr and Ms Hs best interests for Clydesdale to extend their 
interest-only mortgage. So I dont think its reasonable or fair to require Clydesdale to offer 
them a term extension.
Mr H says Clydesdale agreed to extend the mortgage term for another year if they couldnt 
sell the property. Clydesdale disputes this and Mr H hasnt provided evidence to support 
what he says. As Mr H says hes pursuing his right to receive copies of Clydesdales records 
through The Information Commissioners Office and then, if necessary, in court, I wont 
comment on this further.
Mr H says hes overpaying each month as he hasnt been able to take advantage of better 
interest rates offered to other Clydesdale customers. But I dont think it would be reasonable 
or fair for me to require Clydesdale to offer Mr and Ms H an interest rate product when its 
expecting them to repay the mortgage. Clydesdale stopped taking direct debit payments after the mortgage term and agreed 
extension expired. It says Mr and Ms H can make payments by standing order and I 
understand Mr H has done this. Mr H is also concerned about the effect on his credit file of 
the mortgage remaining unpaid after its term expired. Lenders have to record accurate and 
up to date information with the credit refence agencies. Mr H hasnt provided evidence that 
Clydesdale recorded inaccurate or unfair information on his credit file, and so I cant 
reasonably find its acted unfairly. 
Clydesdale has a right to expect its money to be repaid  and thats what Mr and Ms H 
agreed to do when they took the mortgage out. And fairness requires, as a starting point, 
that the mortgage was repaid when the term (and agreed extension) expired. 
Clydesdale hasnt started recovery action. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related 
Government restrictions, the regulator issued guidelines which say that lenders cant take or 
resume possession action until November 2020. This gives Mr and Ms H a few months 
breathing space, to complete the sale of their property.
Mr and Ms H should keep Clydesdale informed about the sale. Id expect Clydesdale to 
continue to treat Mr and Ms H fairly while the sale completes, which will hopefully be soon. 
But, ultimately, if they arent able to sell the property or otherwise repay the mortgage, 
Clydesdale is entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
Mr H says if he isnt happy with my decision hell take Clydesdale to court. If he doesnt 
accept my decision he will be free to raise the matter in court, if he wants to do so. But he 
might want to think carefully, and take legal advice, before doing so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman