DRN-3557597
The complaint
Mr A complains about Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarns (Moneybarn) 
decision to lend him.
What happened
Mr A entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in May 2017 to acquire a 
used car. The car cost £6,995 and a deposit payment of £200 was paid by Mr A. Under the 
agreement, Mr A was required to make 59 monthly payments of £210.74.
Due to arrears owed under the agreement, Moneybarn terminated Mr As agreement in  
June 2018. In July 2018, Mr A agreed to enter into a suspended Judgment for Delivery of 
Goods in the County Court. This set out a schedule of 48 payments he needed to make to 
retain the car. 
In August 2019, Mr A asked Moneybarn about his options to end the agreement. Moneybarn 
told Mr A he could pay the amount remaining under the agreement and own the car or he 
had an option to voluntary surrender. Moneybarn said Mr A couldnt voluntary terminate 
(VT) the agreement as the conditional sale agreement had been terminated. Mr A 
exercised the option to voluntary surrender and after this was completed, Moneybarn told 
him that he remained liable for the outstanding amount remaining. Unhappy with this and its 
decision to lend to him, Mr A complained to Moneybarn.  
Moneybarn issued its response to Mr As complaint. It said that it had carried out a credit 
check before agreeing to lend to Mr A and it obtained a payslip and bank statements to 
confirm Mr As income and expenditure. It said the information it obtained didnt cause it any 
undue concern and suggested that Mr A would be able to afford the repayments under the 
agreement.
Unhappy with this, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. He said at the time he took the 
agreement out, he had a poor credit rating, he was unemployed and he was relying on short 
term high cost credit. So he said Moneybarn had unfairly lent to him. He also said he was 
being chased for the outstanding balance of around £4,000 following him voluntary 
surrendering the car. He said the Consent Order or suspended Judgment for Delivery of 
Goods didnt say his conditional sale agreement had ended and so he should be able to VT 
the agreement with nothing further to pay. To put things right, he said he wanted Moneybarn 
to write off the termination fees and charges and refund him all the interest and fees he had 
paid. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he thought Moneybarn had made a fair 
lending decision when lending to Mr A. He also said that Mr A didnt have a right to VT the 
agreement. This is because Moneybarn issued a termination notice and following this Mr A 
entered into a Consent Order. 
Moneybarn didnt respond. Mr A disagreed and said the Consent Order confirmed his 
agreement was still active and so he should be entitled to VT the agreement. 
As Mr A remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was affordable for Mr A before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Mr As complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr A would be able to repay his loan sustainably?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr A wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay his loan sustainably? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Mr As case.
In this case, Moneybarn has demonstrated some of the checks it carried out by providing us 
with the information it obtained from Mr A before deciding to lend. These checks included 
obtaining two months bank statements from Mr A. It also said it carried out a credit check, 
but no longer has a copy of the results. Having considered this, I think the checks 
Moneybarn carried out were proportionate. 
Ive gone on to consider whether I think based on this information Moneybarn made a fair 
lending decision.
Having reviewed the information Moneybarn obtained, I think that the information it obtained 
did demonstrate that Mr A would be able to make the payments to his loan sustainably. I say 
this because I can see that Moneybarn was able to verify the income Mr A was receiving 
from employment each month and calculate his monthly contractual expenditure. Having 
reviewed the bank statements Moneybarn obtained from Mr A, Im satisfied Mr A had 
enough disposable income to sustainably make the repayments owed under the conditional 
sale agreement.  
Having said this, Moneybarn hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the information it 
obtained from carrying out a credit file search. In the absence of this information, we asked 
Mr A to provide us with information on his financial circumstances to help us understand 
what Moneybarn would more likely than not have discovered when considering Mr As credit 
file. I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something shows 
up in the information Mr A has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks 
Moneybarn mightve carried out. But having reviewed the copy of the credit file Mr A has provided this service, it doesnt show any adverse information from around the time 
Moneybarn approved this lending to Mr A. 
So, having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied Moneybarn carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks when lending to Mr A. And I dont think there was anything in the 
information it obtained to suggest Mr A wouldnt be able to make the repayments 
sustainably. So I think it made a fair lending decision.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Mr A says he should be entitled to VT the car as the terms of the Consent Order allow this. 
However, this isnt correct. The term Mr A has quoted from the suspended Judgment for 
Delivery of Goods states:
4. In so far as the terms and conditions of the agreement dated 12 May 2017 do not conflict 
with the terms of this suspended order, they remain in force and fully effective.
This means that the terms of the conditional sale agreement only remain in force if they dont 
conflict with the terms of the suspended Judgment for Delivery of Goods. However, at the 
point the suspended Judgment for Delivery of Goods was issued in July 2018, the 
conditional sale agreement had already been terminated in April 2018, so the terms and 
conditions of that agreement no longer applied. And so, because there were no terms and 
conditions that applied that conflicted with the suspended Judgment for Delivery of Goods, 
they didnt remain in force or fully effective and it meant Mr A no longer had a right to VT his 
agreement. So, Im satisfied Moneybarn didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it told Mr A 
he didnt have a right to VT his agreement. 
Mr A may have an outstanding balance which is owed under his agreement. If so, Id like to 
remind Moneybarn of its obligation to treat Mr A with forbearance and due consideration if he 
is currently in financial difficulties.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman