DRN-2359936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with their claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. They planned a trip 
in the UK with family and friends for Mrs Ds birthday. At the outset, the departure and 
return dates were 19 March 2020 and 26 March 2020 respectively.
On 16 March 2020, the UK government advised against all unnecessary travel and 
social contact because of covid-19 (coronavirus). On 17 March 2020, Mr D phoned Aviva 
and said that, in the light of the UK governments advice, the trip couldnt go ahead. He 
asked whether the policy covered cancellation of the trip. 
Aviva couldnt confirm cover for a cancellation claim and said it would call Mr D back 
when it had further information. It noted that Mr and Mrs Ds departure date was            
19 March 2020. Mr D says that he phoned Aviva again on 18 March 2020 and it told him 
that his policy doesnt cover cancellation of a UK trip. 
Mr and Mrs D decided to go on the trip on 19 March 2020. On 23 March 2020, the UK 
government introduced a nationwide lockdown. On 24 March 2020, the accommodation 
provider asked Mr and Mrs D to leave the property. They returned home, two nights 
earlier than planned. 
On 25 March 2020, Mr D contacted Aviva and it told him that it could deal with his claim 
for curtailment of the trip. Aviva calculated the settlement of the claim with reference to 
the accommodation costs it attributed to Mr and Mrs D, not the whole party. It also 
deducted the excesses due under the policy.  
Mr and Mrs D say that Aviva didnt follow the governments advice on 16 March 2020, 
so it didnt deal appropriately with Mr Ds initial enquiry about cancellation. They say 
they shouldnt have gone on the trip at all and Aviva should have dealt with their claim 
for cancellation at the outset. Mr and Mrs D want Aviva to refund the whole cost of the 
trip, without deductions. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Mr and Mrs Ds 
policy doesnt provide cover for cancellation in the circumstances that arose here. The 
investigator said that Aviva had acted fairly in calculating Mr and Mrs Ds claim for 
curtailment of their trip. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary:
Aviva ignored the governments instructions on 16 March 2020. It followed later 
instructions by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO), so it set a 
precedent that it follows some of the governments instructions.
The governments announcement on 16 March 2020 effectively nullified the 
policy.
Aviva offered to call him back with a decision but didnt do so. It failed to make 
any calls to them during the period 17 to 25 March 2020. 
The customer service they received was poor. 
The investigators arguments are circular.
The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ds responses but didnt change her view.    
Mr and Mrs D asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds submissions are detailed and comprehensive and they ask a number of 
questions. Ive summarised the basic facts of the case and presented them in a lot less 
detail. No discourtesy is intended by that. 
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant tell insurers how to conduct their business. Were 
an informal alternative to the courts. Were impartial and were not here to answer questions 
put to us by the parties. Our role is to consider the evidence we receive, decide whats 
relevant (and what isnt) to reaching a fair outcome, and come to a conclusion on how we 
think the dispute should be settled. So, I wont be addressing all the points Mr and Mrs D 
have made. That doesnt mean Ive ignored what theyve said. Ive considered everything 
they and Aviva have said and provided but I confine my findings to the issues on which I 
consider the outcome turns. the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Cancelling or coming home early
If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay for the following:
Non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to pay for 
their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. []
If you are unable to recover these costs from the provider.
If one of the following occurs:
[]
The policy goes on to set out the events leading to cancellation of a trip which are covered 
under the policy. 
General Exclusions
This policy does not cover the following:
[]
9. Any claim for:
[]
(c) costs you have paid on behalf of persons not insured under this policy.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated 
them unfairly in either declining their claim for cancellation or in settling their claim 
for curtailment. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover every loss that might occur. The policy 
provides cover for cancellation of a trip following certain specified events, 
which dont apply here. So, Mr and Mrs D dont have cover for cancellation 
of their trip.  
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs D that the governments announcement on    
16 March 2020 means that their policy is null  not legally binding. Theres 
nothing to support that conclusion. I dont think that Aviva treated                
Mr and Mrs D unfairly when it told Mr D on 18 March 2020 that the policy 
doesnt cover cancellation in the circumstances in which they found 
themselves. 
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr D and Aviva on 17 March 2020. 
Aviva said it hoped to call Mr D back later in the day but would call Mr D 
back before the morning of 19 March 2020. Mr D says that he called Aviva 
on 18 March 2020 and it told him that the policy doesnt cover cancellation. I 
dont think that Aviva was at fault in failing to call Mr D back before 19 March 
2020, as he called Aviva in any event, so I can see why Aviva didnt consider 
a call back necessary in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs D says that they received poor customer service and that Aviva 
didnt call them during the relevant period. Given the extraordinary and 
evolving circumstances, I dont think that Avivas customer service was such 
that I can uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. In reaching that view 
Ive noted that Mr D phoned and spoke with Aviva several times, although 
the wait times were much longer than usual. Aviva gave him answers and 
explanations where it could do so, albeit answers that werent acceptable to 
Mr and Mrs D.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D were reluctant to travel and that the trip 
couldnt go ahead as planned, as certain family members couldnt attend. 
But Mr and Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover disinclination to travel or loss of 
enjoyment.
Mr and Mrs D travelled as planned on 19 March 2020. Events moved on as, 
on 23 March 2020, the UK government introduced a nationwide lockdown 
which led to the accommodation provider asking Mr and Mrs D to leave the 
accommodation. Aviva reviewed its position and agreed to cover                   
Mr and Mrs Ds claim for curtailment of their trip. I think that was fair in the 
circumstances. I dont think that means that Aviva should have taken a 
different position about cancellation when Mr D contacted it on                     
18 March 2020, before travelling. Thats because there was no national 
lockdown in place and the reason for Mr and Mrs D wishing to cancel the trip 
didnt come within the terms of the policy. 
The policy provides cover for irrecoverable costs that each insured person 
has paid for their own unused personal accommodation and excludes any 
claim for costs paid on behalf of other adults not insured under the policy. 
So, Aviva was right to calculate the claim in relation to Mr and Mrs Ds 
unused accommodation costs, not those of other adult members of the 
party. In the circumstances here, I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly in 
applying the policy terms. 
The policy also provides that it wont pay £50 for each insured persons claim 
to a maximum of £100. Ive seen no reason I could fairly ask Aviva to waive 
the excesses due under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman