DRN-3804614
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the service theyve received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Theyre unhappy with the decision to move them from a discretionary managed service to a 
dealing and custody service.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr and Mrs O were clients of Barclays - they were under Barclays discretionary 
managed service. Barclays tried to arrange a review with them in 2016.
The meeting wasnt able to be arranged as Mr and Mrs O had an ongoing dispute 
with Barclays in relation to fees, lack of a face-to-face meeting and portfolio 
performance.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs O in 2017 and explained that they were being moved 
to the dealing and custody service (DCS) - which was an execution-only service - as 
a review meeting hadnt been able to take place.
There was further correspondence over the next couple of years, in summary, 
meetings were arranged but didnt take place for several reasons. Ultimately Mr and 
Mrs O wouldnt commit to any changes to their portfolios until their dispute was 
resolved.  
Barclays then moved Mr and Mrs O to the DCS in October 2019. Mr and Mrs O 
complained about the move, but it wasnt upheld.
They brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
thought, in summary, that Barclays had a requirement to ensure that the suitability of 
Mr and Mrs Os investments was still correct. She thought theyd tried to arrange a 
meeting with Mr and Mrs O on multiple occasions but were unable to and were within 
their rights to move them to the DCS.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree and said, in summary, theyd been sent an incorrect 
invoice by Barclays in 2016 and had been overcharged. Theyd attempted to resolve 
this issue with several different members of staff at Barclays but hadnt been able to. 
They hadnt refused to have a review but needed to get an answer to their issue 
about the incorrect invoices. 
They also pointed to several of the arranged reviews being cancelled due to no fault 
of their own and only being given 14 days notice of the termination of their service 
instead of the 30 days stated in the terms and conditions of the account. 
They also highlighted a discussion theyd had with a member of staff in December 
2019. In this call they discussed the incorrect invoice and how long it was taking to 
rectify the issue especially as theyd previously been told that the invoice was 
incorrect. 
The investigator didnt change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
Mr and Mrs O. I intend no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure them that Ive read and 
considered all their submissions. 
It's important to note that I am only considering the issues raised under Barclays complaint 
reference ending J3H which relate to reviews during October 2019 and the subsequent 
move to the DCS. Any issues raised under reference ending 98G relating to earlier reviews, 
fees and invoices were made too late as explained in my jurisdiction decision and therefore 
wont be addressed in this decision.
I say this because the final response letter (FRL) Barclays issued under reference ending 
98G said By way of background, our records indicate that we have been trying to complete 
an investment review with you for some time, initially proposed in the latter part of 2016. 
Although you indicated shortly after that you would not proceed until your complaint (about 
fees and service) had been resolved, we subsequently wrote to advise that we considered 
the complaint closed. I think that if Mr and Mrs O didnt think the issue of fees and service 
had been resolved then they could have escalated that aspect of their complaint to this 
service within the timescales set out in the FRL for reference ending 98G. 
From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs O didnt want to undertake a review with Barclays until the 
issue with incorrect invoices was resolved. However, Barclays had a requirement to ensure 
that they had up to date information about Mr and Mrs Os circumstances to ensure that their 
investments were suitable. In order to do this, they needed to review Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances and financial position. 
From what Ive seen Barclays arranged a review meeting with Mr and Mrs O on 9 October 
2019. This meeting was subsequently cancelled as Barclays thought they wouldnt have 
enough time to process the paperwork before the deadline date of 11 October that theyd set 
Mr and Mrs O to carry out the review. They tried to rearrange the meeting for an earlier date 
but were unable to. They attempted to complete the review on 9 October but were unable to 
as Mr and Mrs Os son had a hospital appointment. 
Barclays then arranged a review call for 11 October and extended the deadline for the 
review until 25 October. The call took place but there was no resolution as Mr and Mrs O 
wanted the previous issue with the incorrect invoice resolved before they committed to any 
changes. Mr and Mrs O were then moved to the DCS as the review hadnt been completed.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays moved Mr and Mrs 
O to the DCS. From what Ive seen, even though Barclays didnt leave enough time for the 
process to be completed when they arranged the review meeting for 9 October, they took 
steps to provide alternative dates and facilitate the meeting. The main issue is that Mr and Mrs O didnt want any changes to take place until their 
concerns with the incorrect invoice were resolved to their satisfaction. Ive listened to the call 
from 11 October, and I note that Barclays told Mr and Mrs O that despite the outstanding 
concerns, they needed to complete the review in order to receive a managed service. I dont 
think was unreasonable and I can see that Barclays had previously made several attempts 
to complete the review, so I dont think theyve treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly in respect of 
this complaint point.
The terms of the account Mr and Mrs O held allowed Barclays to terminate the service. I 
appreciate the points Mr and Mrs O have made regarding the length of notice that was given 
- theyve said they were given 14 days notice instead of 30 days notice. But the terms of the 
account also said: 
We may also terminate the Agreement or any service or freeze any Accounts without giving 
notice in advance if we reasonably believe that you have seriously or persistently broken any 
terms of the Agreement, such as, by way of example but not limited to:
 (g) putting us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty which 
applies to us if we maintain your Account or service;
Barclays had a regulatory requirement to ensure that they had adequate and up to date 
information about Mr and Mrs O due to their ongoing relationship. I think that by not 
completing the review, Barclays were in a position where they were in danger of not meeting 
their regulatory requirements, so I dont think its unreasonable that they terminated the 
service when they did. Also, given that the issue with the invoice hadnt been resolved to Mr 
and Mrs Os satisfaction, I think its more likely than not that even if Barclays had given them 
30 days notice they wouldnt have completed the review and would still have been moved to 
the DCS.
Ive also considered the content of the call between both parties on 11 October. Having 
listened to the call, I havent seen that any assurances were given that Mr and Mrs O would 
get their issue with the invoice resolved. The representative from Barclays said, in summary, 
that he would explain the situation to his colleagues, but he wouldnt commit to saying that 
another meeting would be offered and therefore the deadline would expire. 
Mr and Mrs O sent him an email after the meeting outlining their concerns. He responded 
and explained that hed passed the email to Barclays complaints team. He also explained 
that if there was no review then Mr and Mrs O would be moved to the DCS on 25 October, 
and reiterated that the complaint was separate to the review. 
Ive also seen an email Mr and Mrs O received from another Barclays representative on 11 
October which said I am sorry that this situation has caused you distress and additional time 
to argue your position  I am assuming that there is another review booked for you with 
sucient time? This would be essential to complete and would be our main focus to ensure 
your portfolio is compliant (both yours and Mrs O), otherwise we have no other option. I 
appreciate that we did discuss this before and I understand from below why the review did 
not take place. To clarify  the review does not impact the outcome of the complaint but it is 
needed.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays made Mr and Mrs O aware that the 
review was a separate issue to the issue with the incorrect invoice. Therefore, I dont think 
that Barclays have treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly in moving them to the DCS. They were 
made aware of the deadline to have a review meeting, so when the deadline passed without 
a review taking place, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in moving them to the DCS.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman