DRN-3422561
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd (Wealthmasters) in January 2018 to transfer the value of his safeguarded 
benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP).
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a third party (Representative).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 8 February 2022. I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit 
pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to 
further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  this was approved 
by the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed 
to set up and sponsor a new defined benefits pension scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain 
conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr D, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
Mr Ds safeguarded benefits were as follows:
He had accrued 10 years and 11 months qualifying service between 3 April 2006 
and 31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme on 31 March 2017, his annual scheme pension was £6,659.47;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at 65 was 
£11,986 or a reduced pension of £7,943 plus tax-free cash of £52,958. And at 60 it 
was £8,687 or a reduced pension of £5,963 plus tax-free cash of £39,759;
The estimated revalued annual income payable by the PPF at 65 was £9,608.70 or a 
reduced pension of £7,693.47 plus tax-free cash of £51,289.82. And at 60 it was 
£7,780.39 or a reduced pension of £6,452.33 plus tax-free cash of £43,015.59;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £27,484.12 plus interest at 
3% per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to his remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mr D at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £152,069.01 
which had been reduced by 5% (from £160,072.65) due to the BSPS being in deficit.
Mr D was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits. He contacted Wealthmasters for advice on his options. It recorded the 
following information about Mr D and his wifes circumstances in December 2017:
He was 41, in good health and employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual salary of 
about £35,000;
His wife was 38, in good health and employed on a gross annual salary of about 
£14,000;
They had two financially dependent children aged 11 and 13;
Their non-pension assets totalled £128,000 which included the marital home valued 
at £125,000 and cash savings of about £3,000;
Their liabilities totalled about £102,851, which included an outstanding interest-only 
mortgage of £102,251 on the marital home due to be repaid in 19 years time (when 
Mr D and his wife would be 60 and 57 respectively) and credit card debt of £600;
Through his employment with Tata Steel, he was entitled to a death in service lump 
sum benefit of four times his salary;Their joint net annual income covered outgoings with minimal disposable income 
available;
In addition to his safeguarded benefits, he was building up retirement benefits in the 
Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme and had been since April 2017  he 
and Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 16% of his pensionable salary into that 
plan;
His wife was a member of a workplace pension scheme through her employment 
(scheme type, value and estimated income not recorded);
He planned to retire at 60 in 2036. His wifes planned retirement date wasnt 
recorded. Wealthmasters recommended that they both contact the Department of 
Work and Pensions to obtain a forecast of their estimated State pensions; and
On a scale of risk profiles described as cautious, moderately cautious, moderate, 
moderately adventurous and adventurous, it was determined that he had a 
moderately adventurous risk profile.
Mr Ds objectives and priorities
In its suitability report dated 8 January 2018, Wealthmasters recorded that Mr D had the 
following objectives and priorities regarding the value of his safeguarded benefits:
You are a deferred member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (Final Salary) and 
you wish to review the benefits options of the scheme and you are also concerned 
about the stability of the scheme going forward, in light of the proposed sale of the 
British Steel business by its parent company Tata Steel.
As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you wish to have the facility to draw 
your pension benefits from age 60 without penalty. As you may require your pension 
income sooner than the British Steel pension schemes normal retirement age of 65.
As you cannot accurately predict how much of your income you will need at age 60 (if 
any), you have stated that a joint income of £20,000 would be target figure you would 
like to achieve and you would like to have the flexibility to vary your level of income 
and not have to take all of tax free cash in one go, as you would like to make use of 
any personal tax allowances to minimise the effect of income tax on your pension 
income.
The death benefits offered by the British Steel pension are of key importance to you, 
as you are married and you have two children, and one of your main concerns as 
your father died at an early age (age 44) and should you die [Mrs D] would receive 
only 50% of your pension and a fraction of the schemes overall value as lump sum 
death benefit in retirement from the British Steel Pension Scheme.
Regarding Mr Ds other potential needs, Wealthmasters recorded:
You have an interest only mortgage with a remaining balance of £102,251.89 and a 
remaining term of 19 years. You currently have no repayment vehicle in place and 
we have fully discussed changing the mortgage to a repayment mortgage to ensure 
the mortgage debt is repaid at the end of the term and before your desired retirement 
age. you confirmed that you did not wish to deal with the above at this point in 
time. Should you wish to discuss at a later date please contact me.Critical yield 
Wealthmasters calculated the following critical yield figures based on a transfer value of 
£152,069.01 assuming it was invested in a SIPP. This showed the average annual 
investment return required by the SIPP to provide benefits of equal value to either the BSPS 
or PPF, as follows:
At age 60 based 
on a full pensionAt age 60 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 7.86% 6.40% 6.99% 5.80%
PPF 6.05% 5.78% 5.22% 4.97%
Wealthmasters recommendation to Mr D
Wealthmasters set out in its suitability report its recommendation that Mr D transfer the value 
of his safeguarded benefits to a SIPP instead of either the BSPS2 or PPF for the following 
reasons:
The scheme [BSPS] is currently in deficit with insufficient funds to cover its liabilities.
The pension scheme trustees have offered a competitive Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value.
The Transfer Value Analysis* report we have conducted using our research tool, 
Selecta pension has confirmed that pre-retirement death benefits would be greater 
following a transfer to a money purchase scheme.
The Transfer Value Analysis* report has confirmed that post-retirement death 
benefits would be greater following a transfer to a money purchase scheme.
The Transfer Value Analysis* report has confirmed that both pre and post retirement 
death benefits would be paid as a lump sum rather than an ongoing income which 
suits your personal requirements *The Transfer Value Analysis report is generated 
by our defined benefits research tool, Selecta Pension, this very technical document 
is available on request.
Your personal circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided by the 
pension freedom legislation at retirement.
You require total flexibility with your pension arrangements both now and at 
retirement and a personal pension plan would meet both your current and ongoing 
requirements.
You want to ensure that your wifeand your two children receive the benefits from 
your plan in the event of your death by obtaining the best death benefit options 
available and this is one of your biggest concerns as your pension would be retained 
by the scheme upon your demise.
A SIPP would not penalise you or apply a reduction in benefits should elect to retire 
early and take pension benefits from age 60.The suitability report set out the generic advantages and disadvantages of a pension transfer 
compared to the PPF and BSPS2 options. Wealthmasters recommended that Mr D invest 
£147,000 of his SIPP fund value in a Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) portfolio 
targeting investment growth in line with his moderately adventurous risk profile. Mr D 
accepted Wealthmasters recommendation. 
The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report and 
investment proposal document produced by the DFM provider, summarised as follows:
Initial charges
SIPP establishment fee  £372 (including VAT)
SIPP annual administration fee paid in advance  £660 (including VAT)
Non-standard asset SIPP fee  £600 (including VAT)
Adviser charge  2.00% of the transfer value (or £3,041.38)
Ongoing annual charges
SIPP annual administration fee  £660 (including VAT)
Adviser charge  0.5% of the SIPP fund value
DFM charge  1.02% of the SIPP fund value (including VAT) as stated in the DFM 
investment proposal document
Third Party funds charge  0.76% of the SIPP fund value as stated in the DFM 
investment proposal document
Therefore, the total ongoing annual charges that would be deducted from the value of Mr Ds 
SIPP would be about 2.28% of the fund value plus the SIPP administration fee of £660.
In May 2018, the pension transfer was completed. The transfer value of £152,069.01 was 
paid to a new SIPP in Mr Ds name. After the transfer was completed, Wealthmasters 
submitted an application form to the DFM provider and indicated that the agreed general risk 
profile for Mr D was Medium Low. 
This complaint
In February 2020, the Representative contacted this service. It later sent a detailed letter 
setting out the basis of Mr Ds complaint claiming that Wealthmasters gave him unsuitable 
pension transfer advice. Its position can be summarised as follows:
Tata Steel: After Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company, Mr D 
heard a lot of worrying rumours about the steelworks and the security of his 
safeguarded benefits. Everything he had heard about the PPF and successor 
scheme, the BSPS2, was very negative. He was unsure what to do so sought advice 
from Wealthmasters. It advised him to opt-out of the BSPS and to transfer the value 
of his safeguarded benefits to a SIPP rather than the BSPS2 or PPF. Wealthmasters 
didnt do anything to correct his misapprehensions;
Fact-finding process: Mr D wasnt asked anything about his retirement plans 
including his specific income need. He wasnt asked much about his wifes retirement 
plans or income need or how these might interact with his own. The fact-find 
document included a Final Salary Questionnaire where he was asked to tick points 
as not important, important or very important. The questionnaire was completed in minutes and the trade-offs of the various options wasnt explored. At the end of the 
questionnaire, the following question appears: in the areas marked very important 
please give your reasons in your own words why. But no notes were written in the 
comments box; 
BSPS safeguarded benefits: Mr Ds safeguarded benefits offered guaranteed 
income and represented most of his retirement provision, meaning hed be heavily 
reliant on it to provide retirement income. He didnt have specific objectives other 
than to protect the value of his benefits. Wealthmasters raised control and flexibility, 
and the ability to retire early, as significant benefits of transferring to a SIPP but they 
werent important factors in Mr Ds thinking and he went along with whatever 
Wealthmasters suggested. He didnt understand how valuable safeguarded benefits 
were until long after he transferred out of the BSPS. He now knows that had he 
transferred to either the BSPS2 or PPF, he wouldnt have to worry about the markets, 
inflation, or the charges he now faces through the SIPP. Rather, hed have peace of 
mind and a guaranteed, escalating income for life without cost;
BSPS2 and PPF options: Mr D was unaware that the trustees of the BSPS had 
indicated that the BSPS2 would provide greater benefits than the PPF and only 
marginally less generous benefits than the BSPS. This information was available to 
Wealthmasters at the time of its recommendation in January 2018 but it presented 
both the BSPS2 and PPF as unsuitable options. And so it allowed him to think that a 
transfer to either the BSPS2 or PPF would be a poor outcome;
DFM portfolio: Wealthmasters recommended that Mr D invest in a DFM portfolio. 
His money is now subject to multiple layers of charges and hes exposed to levels of 
risk he wasnt willing or able to tolerate. He didnt understand the charges hed have 
to pay or inflation because this wasnt explained before he transferred out of the 
BSPS. It believes Wealthmasters advice was flawed and led to Mr D suffering a 
significant financial loss. In its view, the high cost of the arrangement recommended 
by Wealthmasters contrasted sharply with the zero charges Mr D wouldve incurred 
had he transferred to the BSPS2 or PPF. It didnt understand why the DFM portfolio 
was recommended since Mr D didnt have any desire to invest in any non-standard 
investments or to have his money actively managed. Given his profile, he couldve 
invested in a standard personal pension plan offering low cost funds and achieve 
much the same outcome at lower cost. The expensive structure recommended by 
Wealthmasters seems to have benefitted everyone else except Mr D;
Death benefits: Mr D was, and still is, in good health and so there wasnt any reason 
to think he wouldnt reach or even exceed his average life expectancy. He had death 
in service benefits of four times his salary through his employment with Tata Steel 
which wouldve been sufficient to repay his mortgage. There wasnt any discussion 
about how separate life cover could provide additional death benefits so that he could 
maintain his safeguarded benefits. The death benefits offered by the BSPS2 were 
generous but this wasnt highlighted by Wealthmasters. The Representative didnt 
think securing higher death benefits for Mr D at the expense of relinquishing 
safeguarded benefits was a good enough reason to transfer;
Early retirement: Mr D was told that hed be heavily penalised for taking his pension 
early from the other options. He was encouraged to believe that hed be better off by 
transferring to the SIPP. He wasnt made aware of the level of benefits hed likely 
receive or by how much his fund would grow after charges if he transferred out 
because Wealthmasters didnt explain it to him;TVAS and critical yields: The Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report 
wasnt shown or explained to Mr D, so he didnt understand the estimated scheme 
pension he was relinquishing by agreeing to the pension transfer. The critical yield 
wasnt explained to him. The TVAS report didnt include the cost of the DFM service, 
meaning the true critical yield figure was greater than the figure of 6.99% (based on 
Mr D taking the full scheme pension from the BSPS at 65) stated in the suitability 
report; 
Illustrations: The illustrations in the suitability report indicated that, after all charges 
and inflation, Mr Ds SIPP fund value might only be worth £187,000 at 65 based on a 
mid-rate growth (2.4%). Therefore, it wasnt likely to increase in value by a significant 
amount and certainly not up to the £543,961.93 fund needed to match the 
relinquished BSPS benefits. The effect of charges and inflation over time wasnt 
explained to Mr D to help him understand how these would impact the benefits hed 
ultimately receive from the SIPP;
Cashflow analysis: The cashflow forecast included in the suitability report 
suggested that by transferring Mr D would run out of money by his late 70s and 
become solely reliant on his State pension. This was at odds with Wealthmasters 
statement in its suitability report that, your overall wealth is such that losing some of 
your pension investment will not affect your standard of living; and
Suitability: Wealthmasters was in possession of all the relevant information and 
must have known Mr D would be worse off in retirement by transferring rather than 
opting for either the BSPS2 or PPF. It kept that from him and instead led him to 
believe that hed better off. Overall, it thought that Wealthmasters failed to adhere to 
several regulatory requirements including COBS 4.2.1(1) R, COBS 9.2.1(1) R, COBS 
9.2.1(2) R), COBS 9.2.2 R and COBS 19.1. 
To put things right, the Representative stated that Wealthmasters should pay redress to                  
Mr D on the basis that he instead transferred to the BSPS2 and not a SIPP.
Wealthmasters response to Mr Ds complaint
Wealthmasters didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint because it was content that its advice to 
transfer to the SIPP was suitable and in line with the FCAs rules and guidance. Its position, 
as set out in its letter dated 26 May 2020 addressed to this service, can be summarised as 
follows:
Mr Ds Representative: It said that Mr Ds Representatives approach to making this 
complaint was unfair. This was because in its initial contact with Wealthmasters the 
Representative didnt confirm whether it intended to pursue the matter through the 
courts or the financial regulatory system or set out precisely the basis of Mr Ds 
complaint until later in the process. The Representative then referred Mr Ds 
complaint to this service for adjudication without allowing Wealthmasters the 
opportunity to investigate and issue its final response. It noted that the 
Representative had submitted to this service an unconnected complaint in 
connection with another of its BSPS clients which it also presented in a similar, unfair 
manner. It said that Mr Ds Representative is an experienced firm of solicitors and 
must therefore be aware that its handling of Mr Ds complaint and other similar cases 
is contrary to the processes set out by the FCA or its own regulator, the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority. It believes that this complaint has been sponsored by extensive 
media coverage of the BSPS scandal and solicitors advertising 'no win no fee' 
services which has led to many former members wrongly making claims for redress;Information about the changes to the BSPS: In the months leading up to its 
recommendation, the BSPS provided Mr D lots of information about the changes to 
the scheme and options available to him. Therefore, members that had limited 
knowledge or experience in relation to pension matters had the opportunity to gain a 
clearer understanding of the situation, familiarise themselves with the pros and cons 
of the options available before taking financial advice. So it didnt agree with Mr Ds 
assertion that he didnt understand what was happening at the time it advised him;
Mr Ds understanding and acceptance of risk: It gave Mr D all the relevant risk 
warnings and talked him through the advantages and disadvantages associated with 
the pension transfer. He gave no indication that he didnt understand the 
recommendation or that he thought Wealthmasters had misunderstood his 
requirements. Mr D willingly signed the client declaration to confirm his 
understanding and acceptance of the information and recommendation outlined in its 
suitability report. The FCA previously stated that it expects consumers to, take 
reasonable responsibility for the decisions they make about the financial products 
and services they buy. And in the Carey vs Adams High Court case, the judge said, 
Consumers should take responsibility for their decisions". Therefore, it considered 
that since Mr D knew what he was doing and the risks involved he ought to take 
responsibility for his decision to transfer to the SIPP;
FCA file reviews: During 2017, the FCA began a focused review on the quality of 
pension transfer advice given to members of the BSPS. As part of this process, the 
FCA requested information from dozens of advisory businesses engaged in BSPS 
pension transfers including Wealthmasters. The FCA contacted Wealthmasters three 
times and, after reviewing its files, confirmed on each occasion that no further 
information or remedial action was required. The FCA made no criticisms of 
Wealthmasters advice or processes and it retained its permission to advise on 
pension transfers. In its view, the lack of FCA action demonstrates Wealthmasters 
professionalism, integrity and adherence to the FCA Code of Conduct. So its 
unacceptable for Mr D, via his Representative, to use selective memory and the 
benefit of hindsight to now claim its recommendation was unsuitable;
Basis of Mr Ds complaint: The basis of Mr Ds complaint, as set out by the 
Representative, contained several inaccuracies and wasnt a true reflection of the 
advice, process or service it provided to Mr D. Mr Ds version of events contradicts 
the documentary evidence. For example, its records showed Mr D had a strong 
desire for flexibility through the SIPP but his Representative says he didnt want this 
but preferred guarantees. It thinks that Mr D was heavily influenced by his 
Representative who, having dealt with many cases on behalf of British Steel workers, 
led him to frame his complaint in a certain way to maximise the opportunity for 
redress;
Fact-finding: Contrary to the Representatives claim, it carried out detailed fact-
finding and obtained all the relevant information necessary to advise Mr D, as 
evidenced by the content in its suitability report. The fact find document, 
questionnaires and reports produced by Wealthmasters were undertaken in 
accordance with FCA rules and guidance, and were based on the information 
provided to it by Mr D at the time;
Advice process: It recognised that the situation surrounding Tata Steel and the 
BSPS meant it was a worrying time for individuals like Mr D. And so it took care to 
make sure it provided information in plain English and walked him through every step 
so that he could make an informed decision. Its advice was tailored to Mr Ds 
personal circumstances, considering his current and future plans, needs and objectives. He had a strong preference for the flexibility of income, lump sums and 
death benefits offered by the SIPP. He was provided with all the relevant facts and 
risk warnings. It wasnt a rushed process. Rather, meetings and correspondence took 
place over a several weeks. He had three weeks to consider the suitability report. He 
had sufficient time to review its recommendation, to raise any areas of doubt or 
confusion, consider his options and seek alternative advice if desired prior to 
accepting the recommendation. He couldve also made use of the 'cooling off' period. 
But he expressed no concerns at the time. Wealthmasters advised Mr D to transfer 
because it was the only option available that met all his objectives. The 
recommendation to transfer was reviewed by an in-house pension transfer specialist 
who concluded, The Know Your Client requirement has been met and the analysis 
of the clients requirements is clear and complete. The product is suitable and there 
are no material deficiencies in the suitability report or file in respect of quality of 
advice or compliance with the FCA principles. It remained satisfied that it treated                    
Mr D fairly and acted in his best interests at all times;
Mr Ds retirement income need: It advised him that he was unlikely to achieve his 
target retirement annual income need of £20,000 through either the SIPP or BSPS2 
options, particularly if he retired early. Indeed, Wealthmasters actively advised Mr D 
to consider increasing his retirement provision to cover the projected income 
shortfall, clear his small credit card debt and switch from an interest-only to a 
repayment mortgage to further improve his financial health;
Cashflow modelling: Its cashflow modelling didnt take into consideration any 
income to be provided by Mr Ds State pension, Tata Steel defined contribution plan 
or any other investments or inheritances which needs to be taken into account;
BSPS2 and PPF options: When Mr D approached Wealthmasters it was evident 
that he had lost confidence in Tata Steel and was worried about the future prospects 
of his employer and the security of his safeguarded benefits  those were his main 
areas of concern. The BSPS2 and PPF options were discussed with Mr D but he 
rejected them because they didnt enable him to achieve his specific objectives and 
requirements for retirement and because it meant he didnt get a clean break.          
Mr D didnt want to suffer the reduction in benefits under the PPF and he had 
genuine concerns regarding the long term viability of Tata Steel and what impact this 
might have on the BSPS2, which may ultimately end up being transferred to the PPF. 
In its view, there was no prospect of Mr D retiring earlier than 65 under the BSPS2 or 
PPF. Furthermore, he clearly indicated a willingness to accept an increased level of 
risk for the potential of achieving a higher return on the funds invested. Had it 
recommended either the BSPS2 or PPF options then the possibility of achieving a 
higher return wouldnt have been feasible;
Critical yield: Contrary to the Representatives claim, it explained in its suitability 
report what the critical yield was and the implications of this to Mr D. However, in his 
case the relevance of the critical yield was questionable because he wanted flexible 
pension benefits rather than purchasing an annuity at retirement; and
Charges: The charges associated with the transaction were clearly disclosed in its 
suitability report.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator thought that the pension transfer advice Wealthmasters gave to Mr D was 
unsuitable and that his complaint should therefore be upheld. His findings can be 
summarised as follows: Importance of safeguarded benefits: Mr Ds safeguarded benefits amounted to              
10 years and 11 months pensionable service and so represented most of the 
retirement provision he had built up by that point in time. And so hed be heavily 
reliant on these benefits to provide secure retirement income. While Mr D was 
building up additional retirement provision in his Tata Steel defined contribution 
pension plan, it was the case that he had limited other investments and savings upon 
which he could rely to support his desired standard of living in retirement. This meant 
he had a very low capacity for loss to absorb financial loss in connection with the 
value of his safeguarded benefits;
Spouses pension: Wealthmasters didnt adequately explain or highlight the 
importance of the spouses pension available under the alternative options to Mr D;
Mr Ds objectives: He thought Mr Ds objectives were generic based on him 
answering pre-determined questions presented to him by Wealthmasters. He felt that 
Wealthmasters couldve done more to identify what Mr D wanted to achieve in his 
own words. Furthermore, he wasnt convinced Mr D had a genuine need at that time 
for flexibility and control of his safeguarded benefits;
Mr Ds risk profile: He thought Wealthmasters assessment that Mr D had a 
moderately adventurous risk profile, as stated in the suitability report, and that he 
was apparently willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in order to achieve 
higher returns on his or her investment as inconsistent with his previous 
investment experience and circumstances. Rather, he thought he likely had a 
cautious risk profile given his low capacity for loss, investment inexperience and 
financial circumstances;
Critical yield: The critical yield figure of 6.99% per year on transfer to the SIPP 
(based on Mr D taking the full scheme pension from the BSPS at 65) was likely 
unachievable bearing in mind he thought that Mr D had a cautious risk profile and 
therefore would need to invest to align with this. The required rate of investment 
growth of 6.99% was higher than the relevant discount rate of 4.6% per year 
published by this service and at the higher end of the FCA's projection rates for 
pensions. As a result, he concluded that the pension transfer would likely lead to               
Mr D receiving lower retirement benefits under the SIPP;
Time horizon: He noted that Mr D was 41 and wanted to retire early at 60. Due to 
the substantial time horizon of 19 years, he thought it was likely Mr Ds personal and 
financial circumstances would be very different by the time he actually retired. And so 
it was difficult to justify why a pension transfer at that time could be regarded as 
suitable when so much was unknown about Mr Ds future plans and retirement 
income need. He noted that had Mr D instead been advised to transfer to the BSPS2, 
he couldve maintained safeguarded benefits and retained the option of a pension 
transfer out of that scheme at a later date when his retirement plans and income 
need could be determined with greater accuracy than at 41;
Mr Ds concerns about Tata Steel and the PPF: He thought that Wealthmasters 
ought to have done more to allay Mr Ds fears about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and explained that, in the worst case scenario, hed still receive 90% of his 
pension entitlement under the PPF;
SIPP and DFM service: He considered that Mr D likely had simple investment 
requirements and so wasnt convinced he required a SIPP or DFM service to actively manage his pension savings or the costs entailed with those arrangements, as 
recommended by Wealthmasters; and
Suitable advice: He concluded suitable advice wouldve been for Mr D to transfer to 
the BSPS2 so that he could maintain safeguarded benefits. He thought it more likely 
than not that had Wealthmasters recommended the BSPS2 that Mr D wouldve 
accepted it.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Wealthmasters carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr D transferred to 
the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. 
Wealthmasters response to our investigators assessment
Wealthmasters didnt accept our investigators assessment that its recommendation was 
unsuitable and provided substantial comments in response. Some of these comments 
essentially repeated points it made in its previous correspondence to this service dated                   
26 May 2020, as set out above. Its additional comments can be summarised, as follows:
The FCAs starting point: The FCAs starting point in COBS 19.1.6G that a financial 
adviser must start by assuming that a pension transfer isnt suitable didnt quite fit the 
issues and circumstances surrounding the BSPS because members couldnt 
maintain their safeguarded benefits in that scheme. Rather, they were instead 
presented with a choice of options including a pension transfer. Its difficult to 
understand why the BSPS trustees muddied the waters by offering members a 
choice of options rather than automatically transferring them all to the BSPS2;
FCA rules and guidance: In providing its recommendation, it adhered to the FCA 
rules and guidance in COBS. The FCAs rules required it to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that its recommendation was suitable. This didnt mean it was required to 
guarantee or ensure, particularly with the benefit of hindsight, that the pension 
transfer was suitable;
Different suitable outcomes: Suitability should be assessed on the basis of 
whether its recommendation was reasonably competent. Its possible that any 
number of suitable recommendations couldve been provided to Mr D. The fact that 
different advice might have been given (with the benefit of hindsight or if the 
claimant's objectives and priorities had been different) is not a basis for upholding 
this complaint; 
Mr Ds risk profile: It didnt accept our investigators view that Mr D likely had a 
cautious risk profile rather than moderately adventurous risk profile, as generated by 
its FCA-approved risk profiling software. It noted that its recommendation was based 
on the results of the risk assessment and, in fact, following a discussion with Mr D at 
the time, it was agreed that it would treat him as a moderate investor;
BSPS2 option: Had it recommended the BSPS2 to Mr D, as suggested by our 
investigator, then its possible that option would be regarded as unsuitable in the 
future. Its aware of clients who transferred to the BSPS2 and subsequently sought 
new transfer values and were unhappy these had reduced by 20% compared to the 
transfer value offered by the BSPS. Its common knowledge that the steel industry is 
again in crisis and that Tata Steel is haemorrhaging money, therefore putting the 
BSPS2 at risk of entering the PPF. In its view, transferring to the BSPS2 wouldnt have enabled Mr D to achieve his objectives. It didnt accept our investigators 
suggestion that opting for the BSPS2 to retain the option for a transfer at a later date 
was sensible. This was because delaying the pension transfer to accommodate 
unknown future objectives doesnt fit within the arena of regulated financial advice. A 
financial adviser is usually engaged with a view to providing ongoing advice and to 
continually review a client's circumstances. The advice given to Mr D at the time was 
in line with his requirements and objectives over the next 15 to 20 years;
Security of defined benefits schemes: It didnt agree with our investigators 
statement that defined benefits schemes are generally very secure. This is because 
currently in the UK the number of underfunded defined benefits schemes is 
extensive. The current financial environment has put even the largest of businesses 
under pressure and at risk. At the time it advised Mr D, the BSPS appeared far from 
secure. Its well documented that British Steel had experienced difficulties and a 
reducing demand for steel in the UK had brought about the company's collapse with 
the government having to step in to keep things afloat whilst a new buyer was found. 
Therefore, while it understood the investigators general statement about defined 
benefits schemes, it didnt feel it was completely true in Mr Ds case given the 
uncertainty surrounding Tata Steel and the BSPS;
Use of pre-determined questions: In response to our investigators comments 
about Mr D answering pre-determined questions, Wealthmasters said it uses these to 
extract important information from clients and to bring into focus matters they 
perhaps wouldnt have previously considered important in their own mind. Its not the 
case that the client completes its questionnaire and thats the end of the story. 
Rather, the answers given by the client set the agenda for discussions and to help 
them focus on what their objectives are. The use of pre-worded questionnaires is a 
practice accepted by the FCA, so it doesnt see any issue in using them when 
advising its clients; 
Media attention: Given the media coverage regarding BSPS pension transfers, its 
concerned that a blanket approach is being taken by the FCA and this service, and 
that any adviser who has made a recommendation to transfer is automatically 
assumed to have given unsuitable advice. It doesnt accept this to be the case 
regarding the advice it provided to Mr D because it remains satisfied that the pension 
transfer advice it gave him was compliant and suitable; 
Financial loss: It said suitability isnt always simply a question of financial loss  its 
also a question of priorities and what best suits an individual's preferences and 
objectives. In response to our investigators recommendation that Wealthmasters 
carry out a redress calculation, it said its not the case that Mr D has now simply lost 
all benefits and value in his pension. Rather, he opted to exchange the guaranteed 
benefits in the BSPS scheme for a cash transfer value as it better suited his needs. 
His final fund value at the normal retirement age of 65 under the BSPS2 is yet to be 
determined. Until Mr D reaches 65, neither Wealthmasters, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, nor Mr D will know whether the benefits he receives will be 
more or less than those he wouldve received under the BSPS2. Furthermore, it 
seems too simplistic to say its simply a case of financial benefit or loss compared to 
the exact pension amount that can just be taken in isolation. For example, Mr D could 
decide, at age 55, to take tax-free cash and invest it in property, Bitcoin or whatever 
he chooses and that grows exponentially  until this has been factored into the pot at 
retirement, an accurate comparison cannot be made. As such, stating that Mr D has 
incurred a financial loss at this time isnt strictly correct and so it struggles to see how 
any financial loss can be accurately assessed at this stage; andOmbudsman decision: It said that in the event this service maintains its 
recommendation to Mr D was unsuitable, that we set out in detail how Mr Ds 
objectives couldve been met without transferring to the SIPP and that any decision 
that fails to address this point cannot be considered as either fair or reasonable. It 
also said that if redress is calculated, as set out using the formula recommended by 
our investigator, whether Mr D would be obliged to pay money to Wealthmasters in 
the event of a no loss scenario where the value of his SIPP exceeded the 
capitalised cost of securing equivalent benefits under the BSPS2 at 65.
Our investigator considered Wealthmasters additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change his assessment of Mr Ds complaint. With regard to the redress point made by 
Wealthmasters, he said that Mr D wouldnt be required to pay money to Wealthmasters in 
the event of a no loss scenario. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has 
been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The genesis of this complaint
Wealthmasters said that Mr D, through his Representative, only made this complaint in 
response to the negative media attention relating to BSPS pension transfers. It believes that 
the media coverage and solicitors advertising 'no win, no fee' services has led to many 
former BSPS members wrongly making claims for redress.
My view is that there could be any number of reasons why Mr D complained about 
Wealthmasters pension transfer advice. Im aware that in recent years the FCA identified 
many steelworkers received unsuitable pension transfer advice and may have made poor 
financial choices, losing significant sums of money as a result. It therefore wrote to 
individuals, like Mr D, who transferred out of the BSPS to encourage them to revisit the 
advice that they received and to complain if they had concerns. The fact Mr D made this 
complaint through his Representative doesnt mean its without merit, as I think is implied by 
Wealthmasters, or that hes acted unreasonably. Wealthmasters will, I hope, agree that, 
regardless of how his concerns materialised, Mr D is entitled to complain about its advice if 
hes concerned it was unsuitable.
Mr Ds Representative 
Wealthmasters is unhappy about the way in which Mr Ds Representative handled and 
presented his complaint to this service. Its also concerned that the basis of Mr Ds 
complaint, as set out by his Representative, contained several inaccuracies and wasnt a 
true reflection of the advice, process or service it provided.  It thinks that Mr D was heavily 
influenced by his Representative who, having dealt with many cases on behalf of British 
Steel workers, led him to frame his complaint in a certain way, including changing what his 
objectives were, with the aim of maximising the opportunity for redress.Id like to assure all the parties to this complaint that my decision will be based on the 
contemporaneous documentary evidence. And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, Ill reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances. I hope this eases Wealthmasters concerns.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
The parties to this complaint have very different views on the suitability of the advice 
complained about. Mr Ds Representative thinks that Wealthmasters recommendation was 
unsuitable because it exposed the value of his safeguarded benefits to more risk than he 
was willing or able to tolerate. But Wealthmasters thinks its recommendation was suitable 
because it met Mr Ds objectives which wouldnt have been met by either the BSPS2 or PPF 
options.
Im going to set out below my impartial view on the suitability of Wealthmasters 
recommendation. Id like to make clear that the purpose of this decision isnt to address 
every point raised by the parties. So If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its relevant or that it affects what I think is the right outcome. 
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
Wealthmasters advised Mr D but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions 
here.
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising clients on 
pension transfers. Businesses are required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied are set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the
rules and guidance is to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that 
is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level 
of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, 
and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary 
information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of 
COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find 
process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients 
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, 
businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing defined 
benefits scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded 
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests. 
The FCA requires businesses to consider alternative, viable options to achieve the clients 
objectives to enable them to maintain their safeguarded benefits.
The important point to make here is that the FCA refers to clearly in its rules. In my view, 
borderline cases  those which appear evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or not  
dont meet the clearly requirement, as required by the FCA. Therefore, if I conclude that 
alternative options couldve met Mr Ds objectives and enabled him to maintain his 
safeguarded benefits, then its likely Ill find the advice to transfer unsuitable given the FCAs 
default position. Id also like to highlight that the FCA refers to contemporaneous evidence 
in its rules. This means that any further analysis carried out by Wealthmasters after its 
recommendation in response to this complaint is essentially irrelevant to my consideration of 
the advice given in 2018. In line with the FCAs rule, to determine suitability when the advice 
was given, I must base my decision on the evidence from the period leading up to and 
including January 2018 to decide whether its pension transfer recommendation was suitable 
and clearly in Mr D's best interests.
Mr Ds situationMr Ds situation at the time Wealthmasters advised him was somewhat unusual for the 
reasons set out in the background above. To briefly recap, after the BSPS closed in                    
March 2017, Mr D was given in October 2017 three options regarding his safeguarded 
benefits in that scheme:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Based on the above considerations and for the purposes of my decision, Ill work on the 
basis that Mr D had the three options listed above at the time Wealthmasters advised him in 
January 2018. Id like to acknowledge that the FCAs default position that advisers must start 
by assuming the existing defined benefits scheme is suitable didnt quite apply here. This is 
because maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS wasnt an option for Mr D. But he 
could transfer to the BSPS2 and maintain safeguarded benefits in that scheme or opt for the 
guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF.
In line with the FCAs default position, its my view that Wealthmasters shouldve only 
considered a pension transfer to a SIPP if it could demonstrate, on contemporaneous  
evidence, that it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests rather than the alternative options to 
either maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 or the guaranteed benefits offered by the 
PPF.
Ill now go on to consider the suitability of the pension transfer advice Wealthmasters gave to 
Mr D.
Critical yield, discount rates and risk profile
The TVAS rules applied at the time Wealthmasters advised Mr D. This required it to carry 
out a transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the proposed 
transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested 
transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the 
defined benefits scheme (and at a different age, if selected) on the assumption that the value 
of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal 
retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will 
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the safeguarded benefits under defined 
benefits scheme, which in this case was the BSPS. 
The TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and 
objectives. But a TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income. So a TVAS was likely 
useful for a client, like Mr D, that intended to use their safeguarded benefits towards 
achieving a minimum retirement income objective  in his case, it was recorded that he and 
his wife required a joint annual income of £20,000. As Ive explained below, its my opinion 
that Mr D would likely be heavily reliant on the value of his safeguarded benefits towards 
achieving this income need.
The critical yield also gives an indication of the value offered by the transfer value and the 
ability to secure comparable benefits on the open market. So its useful in that regard. 
Wealthmasters recommendation to Mr D was provided to him after the FCA gave 
instructions in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount 
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate 
which I'm able to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 
was 4.6% based on Mr D taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. 
Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the 
upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
In contrast, using the TVAS rules, Wealthmasters calculated the critical yield figures in the 
table below based on a transfer value of £152,069.01 being invested in a SIPP. This showed 
the average annual investment return required by the SIPP to provide benefits of equal value 
to either the BSPS or PPF, as follows:
At age 60 based 
on a full pensionAt age 60 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 7.86% 6.40% 6.99% 5.80%
PPF 6.05% 5.78% 5.22% 4.97%
 
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 wasnt calculated. But it was known at the time 
Wealthmasters advised Mr D that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the 
PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 likely fell 
somewhere in between the figures above assuming the same transfer value was offered by 
the BSPS2.
Its my view that the critical yield figures for the BSPS, ranging from 5.80% to 7.86% 
depending on when and how Mr D accessed benefits from the SIPP, demonstrated that the 
transfer value of £152,069.01 represented poor value for money. This is because the 
invested transfer value would need to achieve annual investment growth of at least 5.80% to 
match the relinquished safeguarded benefits. The critical yield figures for the BSPS were 
higher than the discount rate of 4.6% and mid-growth rate of 5% stipulated by the FCA, 
implying that Mr D would need to accept a medium to high degree of investment risk in the 
SIPP just to match the relinquished safeguarded benefits, let alone exceed them.
Based on the above considerations, I think it was highly likely that Mr D would receive 
benefits from the SIPP of a lower overall value than the alternative option of the BSPS2 and 
even the PPF, if required, at retirement. And it seems Wealthmasters agrees because in its 
suitability report it stated, We have discussed these figures in great detail to ensure you fully 
understand the implications of yield requirement in of close to 7% per annum and the 
likelihood your portfolio may not consistently reach this annual performance level (even after 
taking higher investment risks) and therefore not provide you with a comparable annuity 
income at retirement. So based on this alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best financial 
interests.
Notwithstanding the above, Im concerned about how Mr Ds risk profile was determined, the 
basis upon which the money in his SIPP would be invested and the assumed charges in the 
TVAS report. These issues impact the critical yield figures disclosed to Mr D and upon which 
he made the decision to transfer. Ill explain why.
The recommendation, as set out in the suitability report, was based on Mr D investing on a 
moderately adventurous risk basis. This was defined as an investor willing to accept high 
risk and chance of loss in order to achieve higher returns on his or her investment. Significant losses over an extended period may prompt the Moderately Adventurous Investor 
to shift to a less risky investment.  The suitability report stated that the assumed average 
annual growth rate for a moderately adventurous investor was 5% and included an 
illustrative graph to show estimated investment performance over a five-year period. 
Wealthmasters cashflow modelling was on the basis of this investment return being 
achieved during Mr Ds lifetime.
So, based on what was stated in the suitability report, Mr D wouldve reasonably concluded 
that his money would be invested on a moderately adventurous basis and that the 
recommended DFM portfolio would be targeting average annual investment growth of 5%. 
However, in June 2018 the DFM provider wrote to Wealthmasters to confirm that the money 
in the portfolio would be invested on the following basis:
Service Level: Discretionary
Risk Profile: Medium-Low
Investment Objective: Growth
Investment Time Horizon: 5-10 Years
The DFM provider defined the Medium-Low risk profile as follows:
Risk Definition
Having assessed the answers from our risk questionnaire, and reviewed personal
circumstances, we have agreed that the portfolio should have a Medium-Low Risk 
profile, which implies a still significant investment in non-equity securities but greater 
exposure to the more volatile asset classes that can deliver higher returns. Overall 
risk would be deemed moderately low.
Based on a risk profile of Medium-Low Risk we will be providing a performance 
comparison to the MSCI WMA Income Index and the FTSE 100, as detailed in our 
brochure Our Approach to Investment Risk, which is available online or on request.
Therefore, the investment approach changed after Mr D accepted the recommendation as 
set out in the suitability report. I think its fair to say that the prospect for investment returns 
would be lower under a Medium-Low portfolio compared to a moderately adventurous 
portfolio. The definitions of both risk profiles support my view on this. Therefore, the potential 
for investment growth under the SIPP was likely lower than compared to the higher risk 
approach suggested in the suitability report targeting average annual returns of 5%. The 
likelihood of lower investment returns would also impact Wealthmasters cashflow modelling 
and the sustainability of income suggested in the suitability report. Broadly speaking, 
investing on a lower risk basis would reduce the potential for investment growth, meaning 
income would likely run out sooner than compared to investing on a higher risk basis.
And in terms of Mr Ds risk profile, I share our investigators view that the categorisation of 
Mr D as a moderately adventurous investor was, in any event, inconsistent with his 
apparent investment inexperience and capacity for loss with regard to his safeguarded 
benefits. Rather, it seems a more cautious approach wouldve been suitable for Mr D given 
his circumstances and that the value of his safeguarded benefits represented the backbone 
of his retirement provision at that point in time. Wealthmasters agrees because when 
responding to our investigator it said that, following a discussion with Mr D regarding the 
output of its risk profiling software, it was agreed that it would treat him as a moderate risk 
investor rather than a moderately adventurous investor. But its unclear how this played out 
because Wealthmasters stated in its suitability report that Mr D had a moderately 
adventurous risk profile and the DFM provider stated that it would invest on a moderately low risk basis. Theres no mention of the moderate risk profile apparently agreed with Mr D, 
or how any of this would therefore interact with the required critical yields as set out above.
Overall, the assessment of Mr Ds risk profile, including how much risk he was willing and 
able to tolerate, and the basis upon which his SIPP fund value would be invested appears 
inconsistent and confusing.
Finally, in the TVAS report, it stated that the assumed annual investment charge was 0.5% 
of the SIPP fund value. However, according to the investment proposal document produced 
by the DFM provider, the annual investment charge totalled 1.78% of the SIPP fund value, 
broken down as 1.02% payable to the DFM provider (but stated as 0.9% in the suitability 
report) and 0.76% for third party fund charges (not stated in the suitability report). So Im not 
convinced that the costs associated with the transaction were clearly disclosed to Mr D, as 
asserted by Wealthmasters in its response to this complaint.
The assumption in the TVAS report of a lower investment charge of 0.5% per year rather 
than the actual charge of 1.78%, as indicated in the DFMs investment proposal document,  
meant that the critical yield figures disclosed to Mr D were understated, implying less 
investment growth was required to match the relinquished safeguarded benefits than was 
actually the case. I havent seen evidence that the difference between the assumed and 
actual investment charges and the impact it would have on the critical yield figures was 
explained to Mr D before he accepted the recommendation to transfer.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice, 
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Wealthmasters rationale for transferring
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Wealthmasters undertook its fact finding for Mr D and 
then set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives regarding his safeguarded 
benefits. The latter, as set out in the suitability report, may be summarised as follows:
To retire early at 60 without reduction or penalty and to receive, with his wife, joint 
annual income of £20,000 with the ability to vary the level of income so that it could 
be withdrawn as tax-efficiently as possible; 
To provide a death lump sum benefit to his wife rather than the 50% spouses 
pension provided by the safeguarded benefits; and
To control his safeguarded benefits due to concerns about his future employment 
with Tata Steel and to remove the risk that his benefits might be transferred to the 
PPF.
In responding to this complaint, Wealthmasters said that the pension transfer enabled Mr D 
to achieve several objectives including those Ive summarised above. It also said that the 
pension transfer offered Mr D, The ability to repay his interest only mortgage (by his desired 
retirement age) by taking a tax free lump sum and The potential to achieve a higher level of 
income in retirement. 
Ive reviewed the suitability report but it doesnt mention mortgage repayment or the potential 
for higher income as reasons why Mr D wanted to transfer. In fact, in its suitability report, 
Wealthmasters recommended that he switch to a repayment mortgage when it stated:You have an interest only mortgage with a remaining balance of £102,251.89 and a 
remaining term of 19 years. You currently have no repayment vehicle in place and 
we have fully discussed changing the mortgage to a repayment mortgage to ensure 
the mortgage debt is repaid at the end of the term and before your desired retirement 
age. you confirmed that you did not wish to deal with the above at this point in 
time. Should you wish to discuss at a later date please contact me.
So its unclear to me where the mortgage repayment objective mentioned by Wealthmasters 
has come from. And as for the potential for the higher income objective, Wealthmasters 
acknowledged in its suitability report that the SIPP was unlikely to generate the required 
investment return to match his relinquished scheme pension under the BSPS, let alone 
exceed it. So again, its unclear where the higher income objective has come from.
Wealthmasters may have introduced these two additional objectives as further reasons as to 
why Mr D wanted to transfer in order to justify its recommendation. But as Ive noted above, 
my view on suitability in January 2018 must be assessed on the contemporaneous evidence 
from that time. Its entirely possible that Mr D may now be planning to use his tax free lump 
sum (but notably, something which he could in any case take from his safeguarded benefits) 
at retirement to repay, or help repay, any outstanding mortgage. But this wasnt recorded as 
being the case when the advice was given. This means that I cannot consider additional 
reasons or objectives put forward by Wealthmasters when assessing the suitability of its 
advice given in 2018.
Therefore, Ive only considered Mr Ds objectives and concerns as stated in the three bullet 
points above. To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate 
headings.
Early retirement, flexibility and income objectives
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Ds early retirement, 
flexibility and income objectives:
As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you wish to have the facility to draw 
your pension benefits from age 60 without penalty. As you may require your pension 
income sooner than the British Steel pension schemes normal retirement age of 65.
As you cannot accurately predict how much of your income you will need at age 60 
(if any), you have stated that a joint income of £20,000 would be target figure you 
would like to achieve and you would like to have the flexibility to vary your level of 
income and not have to take all of tax free cash in one go, as you would like to make 
use of any personal tax allowances to minimise the effect of income tax on your 
pension income.
Wealthmasters said that the flexibility to draw varying levels of income and tax-free cash at 
different points in time from 60 onwards without penalty wasnt available through the 
alternative options of the BSPS2 and PPF. And that the only way to achieve this objective 
was by transferring to a SIPP. It said that the lack of penalty free and flexible income under 
the BSPS2 and PPF rendered those options unsuitable.
Im concerned about the way in which Wealthmasters established Mr Ds early retirement 
objective and joint annual income need of £20,000. I say this because its unclear to me how 
the figure was determined or if it was realistic that he could retire at 60. It seems that 
£20,000 was a notional figure put forward by Mr D rather than being based on a proper 
analysis carried out by Wealthmasters. This concerns me because if a clients objective is early retirement, then its necessary to carry our adequate analysis to establish if this is 
achievable in order to support a recommendation to transfer. 
Many people might want to retire early. But this can only happen if they have the financial 
means to support themselves in retirement. Financial planning generally involves managing 
client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr D may have wanted to retire at 60 and 
be in receipt of joint annual income of £20,000. But it was for Wealthmasters to establish if 
this was feasible and to manage his expectations and, where applicable, help him modify his 
objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances. Mr D was relying on Wealthmasters to 
provide expert advice in this regard.
In my view, where a client has a retirement income need at a specific age, the starting point 
is to establish a realistic target income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, 
discretionary spending plans and excess income for saving. This information would then 
reveal the income required to cover the expected expenditure from the target retirement age. 
But in Mr Ds case, Wealthmasters didnt establish how he and his wife intended to spend 
their time in retirement or what their expected expenditure was likely to be based on an 
analysis of their outgoings. Rather, the analysis was on the basis that they required a 
notional joint annual income of £20,000. The further away from retirement an individual is, 
the harder it is to establish a realistic figure. And in Mr Ds case, being 41 at the time of the 
advice, I think it wouldve been difficult to predict with a degree of certainty what his 
expected expenditure during retirement would be  and therefore what income he would 
need from 60 onwards to cover this. With such a substantial time horizon until pension 
benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a pension transfer  for the sake of 
achieving early retirement  more difficult to justify.
I note that Wealthmasters described the target income figure of £20,000 as a joint one for    
Mr D and his wife. Id therefore have expected it to analyse their other pension 
arrangements, including the estimated income, so that it could understand how these would 
interplay and combine to meet the overall income target of £20,000 from 60 onwards. But 
Wealthmasters didnt do this. It didnt establish what Mr D and his wifes estimated State 
pensions were. And it didnt establish the details of her workplace pension such as scheme 
type, value or estimated income. 
Given that it was a joint income need, Wealthmasters needed to carry out this analysis of       
Mr D and his wifes estimated income streams from other sources so that it could determine 
what level of reliance would apply to his safeguarded benefits. If it was the case that the 
analysis showed that Mr D and his wife would be heavily reliant on these safeguarded 
benefits to meet their income needs in retirement (because their other pension 
arrangements were insufficient), then it would seriously weaken the case for a pension 
transfer. This is because, where there is a need to generate a minimum level of retirement 
income, its difficult to justify relinquishing benefits that provide a guaranteed, minimum level 
of income in exchange for flexible income that doesnt have any guarantees. That is, unless 
the prospect of an alternatively secured guaranteed income, by way of a transfer and then 
annuity purchase, was likely to have produced a higher level of guaranteed income. But as 
illustrated above, and as also acknowledged by Wealthmasters, this wasnt the case here.
Since its my view that Wealthmasters failed to carry out adequate analysis on the other 
pension arrangements, including the estimated income, its unclear how reliant Mr D and his 
wife would be on the value of his safeguarded benefits to meet their retirement income need. 
I think this was a significant failing on the part of Wealthmasters and undermined the 
suitability of its recommendation for the pension transfer. 
Could Mr D retire at 60?Due to the lack of analysis carried out by Wealthmasters regarding Mr D and his wifes plans 
and expected expenditure in retirement, its unclear whether they would be able to generate 
joint annual income of £20,000 from his 60th birthday. Its my view that Mr Ds expectations 
around his target retirement age ought to have been better assessed and managed by 
Wealthmasters. It agrees because in its suitability report it stated, it is imperative that make 
additional provision for your [sic] as and when your budget allows, as your ability to retire at 
60 and sustain your required income level may not be achievable and may result in you 
having to delay your retirement to a later date.
Things would become clearer the closer Mr D got to 60 and his plans could be modified in 
response to this, but at 41 I think it wouldve been difficult to predict with confidence that hed 
be able to retire at 60. Due to this uncertainty, I dont think it was necessary to consider a 
pension transfer for the sake of early retirement at that time when the option of maintaining 
safeguarded benefits under the BSPS2 was available, which Ill come on to shortly.
But if its accepted that Mr D would retire at 60 and required joint annual income of £20,000 
from that point onwards, then I make the following observations, largely on the basis that 
Wealthmasters said no option other than the pension transfer wouldve enabled Mr D to 
retire at 60. But I disagree, as Ive explained below.
Mr D had been an active member of the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme 
since April 2017 after the BSPS had closed to further benefit accrual. He and Tata Steel 
were, in total, contributing 16% of his pensionable salary into that plan. Despite concerns 
about the security of his employment, it appears Mr D intended to continue working full-time 
for Tata Steel for the foreseeable future. Wealthmasters recommended that he remain a 
member of that scheme and suggested in its suitability report that the value of this plan 
would contribute towards meeting his income need. It included the estimated value of the 
plan in its cashflow modelling (but not the estimated income it would produce). So I think its 
fair to say that the value of Mr Ds plan should be included in the analysis and what its 
estimated value would be on the basis that he remained an active member until his planned 
retirement at 60. 
With this in mind, I think Wealthmasters couldve reasonably expected that, based on Mr Ds 
salary, contribution rate and 19-year time horizon, about £106,000 in contributions wouldve 
been invested in his plan by the time he reached 60. Considering likely investment growth 
over that time and increases in contributions linked to rises in Mr Ds pensionable salary, the 
plan value would likely be higher than £106,000 at 60. Wealthmasters cashflow modelling 
indicates that the value of the plan would be in excess of £100,000 so I think my assumption 
is a fair one.
Access to the plan at 60 would likely cover Mr D and his wifes joint income need of £20,000 
for the five-year period to his 65th birthday. Then, at 65, Mr D could take an unreduced 
pension income from either the BSPS2 or PPF.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. In my view, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for Mr D given that he was married 
and I think he could delay drawing benefits until 65, as explained above. In terms of what 
income would be payable by the BSPS2 at 65, the following information is relevant.
Wealthmasters established that the estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable at 
65 by the:BSPS was £11,986 or a reduced pension of £7,943 plus tax-free cash of £52,958; or
PPF was £9,608.70 or a reduced pension of £7,693.47 plus tax-free cash of 
£51,289.82
At 65 the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower than the BSPS. 
So the income and tax-free cash available under the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere between 
the figures above. I think Mr D would likely choose to commute some of his scheme pension 
in exchange for tax-free cash. Based on the figures above, I think its fair to say that at 65 he 
could expect to receive from the BSPS2 a reduced pension of about £7,800 and tax-free 
cash of about £52,000. He could then use a combination of the annual scheme pension of 
£7,800 and about £25,000 of the tax-free cash over the two-year period from 65 to 67 to 
meet the annual income need of £20,000 until he could start drawing his State pension. So I 
think its reasonable to conclude that Mr D couldve maintained safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS2 and likely still met his annual income need of £20,000 between 60 and 67. 
Given Mr Ds employment history by 2018 and expectations for the future, I think its fair to 
say that hed be entitled to the full State pension at 67. The full State pension in 2017/18 was 
£8,296.60. It increases each year in line with changes to the CPI. So, in 2018 terms, Mr Ds 
combined BSPS2 and State pension would provide total, combined annual income of about 
£16,000. I appreciate that this is less than the annual income need of £20,000, but that 
figure was a joint income including his wifes income. My analysis above is conservative and 
assumes that the defined contribution plan is fully exhausted between 60 and 65, ignores the 
income that would be produced by his wifes workplace pension and her State pension 
payable four years after Mr Ds starts. It may well have been the case that his wifes 
workplace pension would make up the income shortfall between £16,000 and the target 
income of £20,000 for the four-year period until she started drawing her State pension. If 
receipt of the BSPS2 and State pensions provided excess income over and above Mr D and 
his wifes income need, this couldve been reinvested for future use.
In the event Mr D left the employment of Tata Steel, I think its likely that hed find alternative 
employment, albeit perhaps outside of the steel industry, and, with the legal requirements of 
auto-enrolment, would build up additional defined contributions elsewhere over the period to 
60. So I think its fair to say that at 60 its likely hed have access to significant defined 
contribution pension savings which could be used to meet his income need for the five-year 
period between 60 and 65.
This alternative course of action Ive set out suggests that Mr D couldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and potentially achieve his early retirement objective. I 
havent seen any evidence that Wealthmasters properly considered this alternative option 
and presented it in a fair and balanced way to Mr D.
The pension transfer was portrayed by Wealthmasters in its suitability report as allowing for 
early retirement without the penalties which would be applied to the BSPS2 or PPF if 
benefits were taken before 65. It stated, A SIPP would not penalise you or apply a reduction 
in benefits should elect to retire early and take pension benefits from age 60. The reality 
was of course that the SIPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed before 65 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained 
to Mr D so he could understand that accessing the BSPS2, PPF or SIPP early would likely 
lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at 65.
In conclusion, its my view that Mr D made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position regarding achieving his early retirement and income objective. Im not satisfied that 
Wealthmasters demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in                   Mr Ds best interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefits because it failed to carry out 
adequate analysis of Mr D and his wifes plans, expected expenditure in retirement and their 
other pension arrangements. In the absence of this analysis, I think suitable advice wouldve 
been to recommend the BSPS2 because, while the income provided was inflexible, it was 
secure and guaranteed. The pension transfer option offered no guarantees and exposed                
Mr Ds money to inflation, investment and longevity risk with no guarantees about how much 
income it would provide during his retirement.
Mr Ds concerns about the PPF
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect 
members of defined benefit schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of 
benefits. The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on 
transfer to the PPF, Mr D could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, 
although this would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This 
contrasted with a SIPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. In 
its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of Wealthmasters recommendation, 
the PPF stated that its overall financial position as at 31 March 2017 remained robust, with 
an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There wasnt any reason at that time to question 
the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Ds objective to 
remove the risk that the value of his safeguarded benefits might be transferred to the PPF:
You are a deferred member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (Final Salary) and 
you wish to review the benefits options of the scheme and you are also concerned 
about the stability of the scheme going forward, in light of the proposed sale of the 
British Steel business by its parent company Tata Steel.
In other sections in the suitability report it stated that Mr D had grave concerns about the 
PPF and that all of his options relating to control and flexibility would disappear if the value 
of his safeguarded benefits were transferred to it. 
Had Wealthmasters advised Mr D to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a SIPP at a later date, if then 
deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 41. A transfer to the 
BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr D had about the PPF. After all, 
the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term defined 
benefits scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, that 
the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly to 
the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a private plan before 
any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern 
about options disappearing for Mr D or that there was an urgency to transfer to a SIPP at 
that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF.
In my view, Mr D was reliant on Wealthmasters to provide a fair and balanced assessment of 
the PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing 
with Mr D the features, risks and benefits of the PPF and allaying his misapprehensions. But 
I dont think Wealthmasters did this given the lack of reassuring comments in its suitability 
report and instead allowed him to continue to believe that the PPF was an outcome to avoid 
at all costs. 
If Mr D was apparently concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the 
PPF which would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I have to also question why he would accept the risk of transferring to a SIPP which exposed him to 
unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. It seems 
odd to me that Mr D wasnt prepared to accept the 10% reduction of his benefits under the 
PPF, yet was apparently content to accept the unlimited downside risks associated with the 
pension transfer. This suggests to me that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to 
understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He 
was relying on Wealthmasters to provide expert advice on this point but I think it failed to do 
this.
Its therefore my view that Wealthmasters failed to adequately allay Mr Ds 
misapprehensions and that he therefore made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position regarding the PPF.
Death benefit objective
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Ds death benefits 
objective:
The death benefits offered by the British Steel pension are of key importance to you, 
as you are married and you have two children, and one of your main concerns as 
your father died at an early age (age 44) and should you die [Mr Ds wife] would 
receive only 50% of your pension and a fraction of the schemes overall value as 
lump sum death benefit in retirement from the British Steel Pension Scheme.
In the event of your death before or after retirement, a major concern of yours was 
that in the event of your and  [Mr Ds wife] death the entire pension fund would be 
lost as your two children are only eligible to receive a dependents pension until age 
18 or 23, if in fulltime education.
The recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income 
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred 
under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the 
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the 
transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mr D could draw any benefits from 55 onwards, 
the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to 
the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at least 14 years.
But Mr D was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect normal life expectancy
into his late 70s or early 80s. The value of his safeguarded benefits represented the 
backbone of his retirement provision. And as Ive concluded above, I think Mr D would be 
heavily reliant on these benefits to meet his core income needs in retirement. Withdrawing 
money from the SIPP at 60 to help meet his recorded joint annual income need of £20,000 
would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more 
likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
The suitability report included a cashflow analysis that indicated the SIPP fund value would 
be fully depleted during Mr Ds lifetime. Wealthmasters stated, At age 78-79 your pension 
funds may be depleted and your only source of income will be your state pension, and 
therefore it is imperative that make additional provision for your retirement as and when your 
budget allows, as your ability to retire at 60 and sustain your required income level may not 
be achievable and may result in you having to delay your retirement to a later date. And this 
cashflow analysis was on the basis that Mr D invested on a moderately adventurous risk 
basis targeting an assumed average annual growth rate of 5%. As Ive noted above, the 
DFM provider was investing on a different, moderately low risk basis, suggesting a lower average annual investment return than 5%, and meaning that the SIPP fund value would 
likely achieve less growth and be fully depleted sooner than Mr Ds 78th birthday, around the 
time of his normal life expectancy. So Im not convinced that in the event of Mr Ds death, a 
meaningful death lump sum would be available from the SIPP for his wife bearing in mind 
the level of income he expected to draw from it from 60 onwards.
In demonstrating that the pension transfer was clearly suitable and in Mr Ds best interests, 
Wealthmasters was required, under the FCAs rules, to consider alternative options to meet 
his death lump sum objective. As Ive noted above, Mr D had the alternative option to 
maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 which offered a 50% spouses pension. 
Wealthmasters was required to consider this and any other viable options. It said that Mr D 
wanted his wife to have a lump sum from his SIPP rather than the 50% spouses pension. 
But, as Ive noted above, its questionable as to what death lump sum benefit might be 
available from the SIPP.
Wealthmasters described the spouses pension under the BSPS2 as inflexible and as not 
paying the full pension. But the BSPS2 would provide the certainty of a spouses pension 
set at 50% of Mr Ds pension at the date of death. Furthermore, the spouses pension 
provided protection against inflation because it would escalate in payment linked to 
movements in the CPI capped at between 2.5% and 5%. Its worth noting here that the 
benefits paid by the PPF to a spouse is broadly based on the former scheme rules. So, in 
the event the BSPS2 was transferred to the PPF, Mr Ds wife could expect to receive a 50% 
spouses pension under the PPF but it would instead escalate in line with CPI up to a 
maximum of 2.5%. I dont think the certainty of a 50% spouses pension, provided by the 
BSPS2 and the PPF, if necessary, shouldve been downplayed by Wealthmasters as it was 
in its suitability report.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr D to provide a lump sum on his death as asserted by 
Wealthmasters, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump 
sum to his wife while enabling him to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note 
that Mr D and his wife had minimal disposable income available every month after paying 
their bills. But they may have been persuaded to reduce their discretionary spending if it 
meant they could pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover 
for a defined term is generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr D 
given he was 41 and recorded as being a non-smoker and in good health. However, I cannot 
see evidence that Wealthmasters adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, 
I havent seen evidence that Wealthmasters quantified Mr Ds death lump sum need, over 
what term, how this might change over time, how it might be met by other means or present 
personalised life cover quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision.
Its my view that Mr D had no health issues at the time Wealthmasters advised him which 
might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his wife. So Im not convinced 
there was any real merit in Mr D transferring to a SIPP at that time to provide a lump sum 
death benefit. Theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was required for Mr Ds wife 
rather guaranteed income for life.
But, in any case, I note that while Mr D maintained safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2, a 
lump sum equivalent to a refund of contributions of £27,484.12 plus interest at 3% per year 
compound would be paid to Mr Ds wife. Furthermore, through his employment, Mr D had life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a further lump sum of about 
£140,000 would be paid to his wife in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  
this was payable regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, 
PPF or a SIPP. Therefore, it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr D 
remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £167,484.12 would be paid on his death. This contrasts with Mr D and his wifes total liabilities of about £102,851. So I think 
its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to provide death 
benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mr D remained employed by Tata 
Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing cover enabled Wealthmasters and 
Mr D enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life cover so that he could 
maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with Wealthmasters view that the 
only way to achieve Mr Ds death benefits objective was by transferring to a SIPP at that 
time. Given Mr Ds circumstances, I consider that the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, 
would likely offer better death benefits to his beneficiaries over the longer term compared to 
the SIPP taking into account the likely level of income withdrawal from the SIPP and Mr Ds 
life expectancy.
What should Wealthmasters have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ds 
decision? 
During 2017, the situation was rapidly evolving and there were serious concerns relating to 
Tata Steel and the BSPS at the time Wealthmasters advised Mr D  and I fully acknowledge 
this. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr D. But 
this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice where a regulated advisory business 
was appointed. Any concerns Mr D had about the security of his benefits shouldve been 
addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the transaction, 
Wealthmasters.
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr D. And that the value of his 
safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was 
relying on Wealthmasters to provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into 
account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make an 
informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
pension scheme, but, as the professional party, Wealthmasters was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
Wealthmasters believes that a pension transfer was necessary at that time and that it fulfilled 
Mr Ds wishes. Financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, its incumbent upon 
them to explain this  and why. 
I acknowledge that this may misrepresent Wealthmasters position, and it was referring to   
Mr Ds expressed objectives, in that it wouldnt be up to an adviser or indeed this service to 
tell Mr D that he shouldnt have the aim of, for example, retiring early. That aside, however, it 
was nevertheless the responsibility of Wealthmasters to explain to Mr D why he didnt need 
to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable safeguarded benefits at that time 
and that consideration of a pension transfer was a decision that could be delayed until                     
his plans and expected expenditure in retirement could be determined with greater clarity 
than at 41.
As Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS2 entering the PPF, which 
wouldve ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, the indication was that the BSPS2 would 
be successfully implemented. Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr D was a balanced appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a 
robust and candid discussion about his own concerns relating to the BSPS. 
Mr D, amongst many others in a similar position, may have been concerned by 
developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but he was nevertheless entitled to 
an impartial review of his options. And looking at those options, one of the key recorded 
objectives  early retirement  was, in my view, likely achievable within the BSPS2. For the 
reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control of 
income outweighed the guaranteed benefits offered by the BSPS2, and Im satisfied that                 
Mr Ds income need likely couldve been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why control or flexibility wouldve been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr D to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at 41. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ds concerns about the BSPS2 couldve 
been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even 
under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which he 
simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, such as through his defined 
contribution plan, and a future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment 
returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the 
case through the defined contribution plan. 
Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS2, albeit in a different format from those 
available from the SIPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think these shouldve 
been a more important consideration than Mr Ds own retirement guarantees which hed be 
relinquishing through the transfer. 
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
Notwithstanding my comments about the critical yield likely being understated due to an 
incorrect assumption about the underlying investment charge, the critical yield was in any 
event higher than the discount rate and the mid band growth rate set out by the FCA, I think 
it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the relinquished 
safeguarded benefits. This position is supported by Wealthmasters own analysis at the time. 
The justification for transferring was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ds stated 
objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt 
the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by 
what Wealthmasters considers to have been the overriding justifications for proceeding with 
the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
Wealthmasters view is that Mr D was intent on effecting the transfer. But he was relying on 
Wealthmasters to provide expert advice and advise him what to do. I think the advantages of 
Mr D maintaining his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 coupled with his misapprehensions 
about the PPF being suitably assuaged, wouldve persuaded him to do just that.
Wealthmasters said that it gave Mr D all the necessary risk warnings and that he was 
required to take responsibility for his decision to transfer. I accept that Mr D was given risk 
warnings and was more likely than not capable of understanding them. But its important to 
note that disclosure isnt the same as suitability. If the recommendation to transfer was 
fundamentally unsuitable then the provision of risk warnings doesnt transform it into a 
suitable one. I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be 
in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they wanted to 
transfer their safeguarded benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter 
involving many factors with which Mr D, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence 
his reliance on a professional party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice.For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr D simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility. 
His decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial 
viability of the BSPS2, but as Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and 
balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process. 
Taking account of Mr Ds circumstances, risk profile, objectives and the guarantees provided 
by the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, my view is that Wealthmasters shouldve 
advised against the pension transfer. And I think that, had this happened, Mr D wouldve 
followed that advice and likely transferred to the BSPS2.
Conclusion
In its final response letter to this complaint, Wealthmasters said that the pension transfer 
was the only option available to meet Mr Ds objectives. I disagree. For the reasons 
explained above, Im not satisfied Wealthmasters demonstrated, on the contemporaneous 
evidence, that it adequately considered alternative options to meet Mr Ds early retirement or 
death benefits objectives or why it was clearly in his best interests to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits to achieve these. Im also concerned that it appears to have 
misrepresented the true critical yield to match the relinquished benefits and that his SIPP 
was invested differently than set out in the suitability report, which meant Mr D made the 
decision to transfer from an uniformed position, further undermining the case for a pension 
transfer.
The key contributing factors here relate to inadequate consideration of alternative options to 
achieve Mr Ds stated objectives, likely understatement of the true critical yield required to 
match the relinquished benefits, the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of the value 
of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits compared to the recommended pension transfer and 
inadequate risk profiling, exposing his significant retirement provision to more risk than he 
was likely willing and able to tolerate  all of which are a failure to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, 
COBS 4.2.1, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation. I asked both parties to this complaint to provide any further comments or
evidence that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. I gave the parties
until 9 March 2022 to respond. I later extended this to give Wealthmasters more time to 
respond.
The Representatives response to my provisional decision
Mr Ds Representative acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. It noted that in my 
provisional decision I concluded Mr D wouldve accessed his Tata Steel defined contribution 
plan in the first instance to meet any income shortfall between retiring early and drawing his 
safeguarded benefits from the BSPS2 at 65. It requested that in my final decision I explicitly 
state the loss assessment must be calculated on the basis Mr D wouldve taken benefits 
from the BSPS2 at the scheme normal retirement age of 65.
Wealthmasters response to my provisional decision
Wealthmasters didnt accept my provisional decision and provided substantial comments in 
response on 31 March 2022. Most of its comments repeated points previously made. It said 
that before making my final decision it wanted me to reassess all the available evidence and 
take into consideration several additional points. These additional points can be summarised 
as follows:It found it frustrating that I had provisionally concluded its advice was unsuitable 
when it had adhered to all relevant FCA rules and guidance. Furthermore, it had 
recently undertaken a review of its pension transfer advice processes with the FCA 
which didnt reveal any concerns. It requested that I contact the FCA for more 
information;
There continues to be concern over the British Steel situation and challenges over 
the regulatory guidance and processes put in place by the FCA and its proposed 
consumer redress scheme. It therefore considered it surprising that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service felt able to make final decisions on such cases at this time. It 
wanted to know how this complaint would be treated under the FCAs proposed 
consumer redress scheme;
The British Steel situation was unique. There were various failings by several 
organisations including the FCA, the Trustees of the BSPS and the employees trade 
union. However, it appears that financial advisers are being blamed unfairly for these 
failings when their role was simply to provide advice to meet members requirements; 
The government implemented the pension freedoms to give individuals like Mr D 
more choice. BSPS members were responsible adults and capable of making their 
own decisions;
Mr D had felt let down by his employer and lost all faith in the Steel industry. The 
decision he made to transfer at the time was his own and right for him based on his 
circumstances. He chose to seek financial advice. He was more than capable of 
understanding the documentation that was given to him. He didnt express any 
concerns with the pension transfer at the time;
The FCA accepted that members had a deep mistrust of Tata Steel and so 
recognised transferring to obtain control of pension benefits was a valid reason to 
transfer. Mr Ds objectives and concerns about the future of the Steel industry 
couldnt be met by transferring to the BSPS2 or PPF. The only viable option was a 
pension transfer;
It referred to Caroline Rookes report titled Independent review of communications 
and support given to British Steel Pension Scheme members published in                       
January 2019 and provided several excerpts from this that it considered to be 
relevant in deciding Mr Ds complaint. It said that this report proved members were 
forced to make a decision but were well informed about what was happening to the 
BSPS and their options; and
In the event that this complaint is upheld, it requested that the enhanced transfer 
value that Mr D received be taken into account in the loss assessment calculation. 
Notwithstanding this point, it questioned how the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
direct it to assess Mr Ds financial loss now when he hasnt yet retired, and the future 
value of his SIPP is unknown. In its opinion, the loss assessment should be delayed 
until such time as Mr D retires. And if this shows hes made a financial gain, as a 
result of the transfer to the SIPP, that the surplus be shared between it and its 
professional indemnity insurer in the interests of fairness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Ive carefully considered Wealthmasters comments in response to my 
provisional decision. Generally what Wealthmasters has said isnt new information. In 
deciding this complaint, I dont think its necessary to respond to every point its made but I 
consider it appropriate to make the following points.
In response to my provisional decision, Wealthmasters said that it adhered to all relevant 
FCA rules and guidance when it advised Mr D. I disagree. As explained in my provisional 
decision, its my opinion that Wealthamsters failed to adhere and have regard to several 
FCA rules and guidance. To briefly recap:
Wealthmasters TVAS report didnt include the full range of charges applicable to the 
recommended pension transfer, meaning the critical yield figures disclosed to Mr D 
were understated, and therefore implying less investment growth was required to 
match the relinquished safeguarded benefits than was actually the case. In my view, 
the provision of an incorrect and understated critical yield figure didnt adhere to the 
FCAs rules and guidance;
Wealthmasters continues to assert that a pension transfer was the only viable option 
for Mr D. But for all the reasons previously given, I disagree  a pension transfer 
simply wasnt Mr Ds only viable option here. It also failed to demonstrate, on the 
contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to transfer 
rather than the alternative options to either maintain safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS2 or the guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF. In my view, the inadequate 
assessment of alternative options to meet Mr Ds objectives didnt adhere to the 
FCAs rules and guidance;
There was a mismatch between the risk profile Wealthmasters assigned to Mr D and 
as was stated in the suitability report (moderately adventurous) and the basis upon 
which the money in his SIPP was invested (medium-low). This mismatch wasnt 
acknowledged or dealt with by Wealthmasters at the time of its advice. In my view, 
this failing didnt adhere to the FCAs rules and guidance; and
The categorisation of Mr D as a moderately adventurous investor was inconsistent 
with his apparent investment inexperience and capacity for loss regarding his 
safeguarded benefits. In my view, Wealthmasters inadequate fact-finding and 
approach to determining Mr Ds risk profile didnt adhere to the FCAs rules and 
guidance.
In summary, I concluded that Wealthmasters failed to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 4.2.1, 
9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, and didnt have sufficient regard for 19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G when it 
advised Mr D. Nothing Wealthmasters said in its response to my provisional decision 
changes my opinion on this.
With regard to the situation with Tata Steel and the BSPS, I acknowledged in my provisional 
decision that it was unique and a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr D, who were essentially forced to make a decision as part of the Time to Choose exercise. 
And I also recognised that he felt let down by his employer  which led him to seek advice to 
transfer out of the BSPS. But, for the reasons explained, I thought Wealthmasters failed to 
provide a balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of 
suitable advice, as it ought to have done. Nothing Wealthmasters said in its response to my 
provisional decision changes my opinion on this.
As for the FCAs recent review of Wealthmasters pension transfer advice processes and the 
proposed consumer redress scheme, these make no difference in the context of deciding 
this complaint  and doing so now. Firstly, the Financial Ombudsman Services role is to 
decide individual complaints based on the contemporaneous evidence. Therefore, any 
feedback Wealthmasters received from the FCA on other cases or its pension transfer 
advice processes doesnt impact my view on Mr Ds case. So I dont think its necessary for 
me to contact the FCA, as Wealthmasters suggested. Secondly, regarding the FCAs 
proposed consumer redress scheme, information about this was set out in CP22-6 
Consumer redress scheme for unsuitable advice to transfer out of the British Steel Pension 
Scheme published in March 2022. Section 1.6 of this document confirms that the proposed 
consumer redress scheme wont cover people, like Mr D, who have already submitted a 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service about unsuitable advice to transfer out of 
BSPS during the relevant period. Therefore, since its likely Mr Ds case wouldnt be 
considered as part of that scheme, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on this 
complaint at this time.
As for the proposed redress methodology, Wealthmasters requested that the enhanced 
transfer value Mr D received be taken into account. I can confirm that the transfer value paid 
to the SIPP should be used in the calculation. Wealthmasters believes that Mr D should be 
required to pay it and its professional indemnity insurer the surplus money in his SIPP if the 
loss assessment shows he hasnt suffered a financial loss. As previously explained by our 
investigator, Mr D wouldnt be required to pay money to Wealthmasters in the event of a no 
loss scenario; that simply isnt part of the FCAs redress methodology for unsuitable pension 
transfers. As for the timing of the loss assessment, it isnt appropriate, as suggested by 
Wealthmasters, to delay this until such time as Mr D draws benefits at 65 to align with the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65 under the BSPS2. The FCAs redress methodology 
makes no provision for delaying a calculation until the members normal retirement date. 
This is in order to bring finality to such matters, without the member needing to wait until they 
retire. I also consider that its fair and reasonable for a loss assessment to be carried out as 
soon as possible and on the basis that Ive set out below.
I acknowledge the Representatives request that in my final decision I explicitly state that the 
loss assessment be calculated on the basis Mr D takes benefits from the BSPS2 at the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65. I agree and have made this clear below.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr D, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in but for 
Wealthmasters unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, Wealthmasters should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance 
for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr D been properly advised, he 
wouldve opted to transfer to the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why. 
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS2 wouldnt reduce the starting entitlement for deferred members. The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable than the BSPS2. And so, on the basis of prospective 
early retirement, both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been 
higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly 
advised, Mr D wouldve envisaged accessing his Tata Steel defined contribution plan in the 
first instance to make up any income shortfall in the period between 60 and 65 before 
starting to take his safeguarded benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal 
scheme retirement age of 65 (or as close as possible to 65, reducing the impact of an early 
retirement reduction). In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP2 the spouses pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
tax-free cash was taken at retirement. And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes. 
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the 
basis Mr D wouldve taken benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. 
Wealthmasters may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ds SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the future loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount should where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
Wealthmasters receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. 
Further interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Wealthmasters to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Wealthmasters to pay Mr D the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the 
compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Wealthmasters to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the 
compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Wealthmasters to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that Wealthmasters pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
In addition, I think that this matter will have caused Mr D trouble and upset. He would 
naturally have been very concerned about a potential reduction in his pension benefits as a 
result of the unsuitable advice given to him. So I think Wealthmasters should pay £300 to                 
Mr D in respect of this. 
If Mr D were to accept this final decision on the above basis, the determination and money 
award would be binding on Wealthmasters. My recommendation wouldnt be binding on 
Wealthmasters. Further, its unlikely that Mr D could accept this final decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this final decision.
The loss assessment calculation must be provided to Mr Ds Representative in an easy to 
understand format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must redress Mr D as Ive
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman