DRN-4237057
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has refused to pay her a 
£120 shortfall, which she says she credited to her current account via cash deposit 
machines.
Miss A is represented by Mr H in this matter.  In my decision, I will refer to Mr Hs 
submissions as if they were coming from Miss A directly.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
On 14 February 2023, Miss A says she attended  with Mr H  a Halifax branch to deposit 
£1,500 into her current account.  She says she did this by using two separate cash deposit 
machines.  Miss A explains she used two machines because she was pushed for time and 
the first machine was operating slowly. 
Miss A argues that only £1,380 was credited to her current account.  She raised this matter 
with Halifax requesting it pay her the shortfall of £120.  As Halifax declined to do this, Miss A 
raised a complaint which she also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered Miss As complaint and did not uphold it.  Because Miss 
A did not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Miss A argues she deposited £1,500 but, Halifax argues it was in fact £1,380.
When it comes to complaints where it is one word against another, the fairest approach is to 
consider any documentary, technical and/or independent evidence which may support either 
partys position.  
Halifax has provided technical evidence which shows that, on 14 February 2023, two in-
branch cash deposit machines were used to credit £480 and £900 respectively to Miss As 
current account.  These credits are also reflected in Miss As bank statements.  Based on 
this evidence, I am persuaded, on balance, that Miss A deposited £1,380 in total using the 
cash deposit machines in question.
I can see from the technical evidence that on 15 February 2023  a £20 surplus was found in 
one of the cash deposit machines (carried over from 14 February 2023).  I have reflected on 
whether this might be linked to Miss As alleged shortfall.  Having done so, I am not 
persuaded, on balance, that there is a link.  I say this because Miss As position is that the 
alleged shortfall amounted to £120.  So, if this were accurate, I would expect the technical 
evidence to reflect a £120 surplus  rather than £20.  It could be possible, as Halifax has 
suggested, that the £20 surplus is linked to another customers transaction.  But, it is not 
necessary for me to make a finding on this.
Taking all the above points together  I do not find that Halifax has done anything wrong in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman