DRN-3482015
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt treated him fairly in a dispute 
over a credit card payment to a hotel.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties and summarised in detail by our 
investigator in earlier correspondence, so I will summarise only briefly here:
On 24 October 2020 Mr S booked a one-night stay for £165 at a hotel in South West 
England as part of a wider holiday. He was due to check in on 26 October 2020. Mr S 
booked directly with the hotel over the phone and provided his Halifax credit card 
details for payment.
Mr S felt unwell overnight and, against the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic, 
decided it was best to cancel his holiday. He emailed the hotel on the morning of 25 
October 2020 to cancel and ask for a refund, but later the same day the hotel 
charged his card the £165 cost of the stay.
The hotel told Mr S it would refund him if it was able to resell the room, but that 
otherwise he wouldnt receive a refund, in line with its cancellation policy which it said 
it had highlighted to him during the booking. In the end the hotel did not refund Mr S.
Mr S took the matter up with Halifax, who he asked to refund him. The bank 
considered the circumstances and decided not to provide a refund via a chargeback 
or a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr S felt this 
wasnt a fair or correct decision and so he complained and then referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss case. She came to the following conclusions:
Chargeback was a way in which Halifax could have attempted to claim a refund for 
Mr S. This would have been subject to rules set by Mastercard. Halifax didnt attempt 
a chargeback but this didnt make a difference because it seemed unlikely a 
chargeback would have been successful.
Section 75 of the CCA was another route via which Halifax could have refunded 
Mr S. It gave Mr S an equal right to claim against Halifax as he did against the hotel 
for a breach of contract or misrepresentation, so long as certain conditions were met.
However, there had been no breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel. Mr 
S had booked a room and it was made available to him. He had cancelled and it 
didnt seem to be disputed that the hotels policy on cancellation was to try to resell 
the room, and that no refund would be forthcoming if this wasnt possible.
Although the credit card payment had been processed after Mr S had cancelled the 
booking, this didnt make a difference in terms of whether a refund was due.
Mr S disputed the investigators conclusions. He felt the hotel had been disingenuous and 
inflexible in what had been difficult circumstances. He had acted responsibly in cancelling his 
booking when he had symptoms of what could have been COVID-19. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ss further points. She said that she appreciated Mr Ss 
reasons for cancelling, but that he had made a contract with the hotel which had certain 
terms around cancellation. The hotel had applied those terms. The hotel had claimed to 
have accepted Mr Ss booking over other potentially interested parties. Our investigator had 
no evidence to prove otherwise, or that the hotel had been unable to resell the room at short 
notice. She observed that cancellation terms like the hotels were normally intended to 
anticipate situations like this. 
Mr S said he appreciated the time spent looking into matters but maintained that he had 
been treated unfairly and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. The case has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, there are two avenues via which Mr S could seek redress from 
Halifax in relation to his payment to the hotel  the process known as chargeback, and a 
claim under section 75 of the CCA.
A chargeback is a method via which a payment made on a debit or credit card can be 
claimed back from the recipient. Chargebacks can only be made for certain reasons and are 
subject to rules set by the card schemes, whose branding can be found on the cards. In 
Mr Ss case, the card scheme was Mastercard. Chargebacks are also not guaranteed to 
succeed, and I would only generally expect a card issuer to attempt a chargeback where 
there was a reasonable prospect of it succeeding.
Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a right to claim, so long as certain conditions are 
met, against their credit card provider if they have paid a supplier of goods or services using 
their credit card, and the supplier has breached its contract with them, or misrepresented 
something to them.
Like our investigator, I dont think Mr S had a valid claim against Halifax under section 75, 
and I think its unlikely Halifax could have pursued a successful chargeback for him, for 
essentially the same reasons (which I will now explain).
Mr Ss Section 75 claim
Before I continue, I will say that there are various technical criteria that need to be in place 
for it to be possible for a consumer to bring a claim under section 75 of the CCA. Its not 
been disputed in this case that the technical criteria are in place, so I will say only that it 
appears to me that they are indeed in place.
It's also not been claimed that the hotel caused Mr S to book the room as a result of a 
misrepresentation, so I have not examined this further. Ive carefully considered whether the 
hotel breached its contract with Mr S, as this is what he could find Halifax liable for under 
section 75.
When Mr S booked with the hotel over the phone, he was agreeing to pay £165 for a one-
night stay on 26 October 2020. He was also agreeing to any other terms of the stay or booking which the hotel had drawn to his attention. Mr S hasnt disputed that the hotel had 
referred to their cancellation policy and that further details could be found on their website.
Mr S also doesnt appear to disagree that the cancellation policy was that 100% of the 
booking remained payable in the event of a cancellation so close to the date of stay  unless 
the room could be re-sold. Archived historic versions of the hotels website, along with its 
current website, indicate this has been its long-standing policy.
As far as I can see, the hotel did make efforts to re-sell the room, but it doesnt really 
surprise me that it appears to have been unable to do so given the short time available. 
Theres been a suggestion that perhaps the hotel didnt make much effort, but I can see from 
the archived version of its website that it had at least advertised the vacancy there. The hotel 
says that it also illuminated its vacancy sign and made the room available on booking 
websites.
It is difficult to see how the hotel breached its contract with Mr S. It applied its cancellation 
terms as agreed. I can see Mr Ss point of view, that perhaps the hotel could have been a bit 
more flexible given the circumstances, but it wasnt contractually obliged to offer a refund. So 
its failure to do so doesnt mean Mr S has a valid claim against Halifax under section 75 of 
the CCA.
This brings me to the issue of the hotel debiting Mr Ss card after hed got in touch to cancel. 
It does appear to me from the evidence that the hotel chose to put the transaction through 
after it learned of the cancellation. This is not an uncommon practice where the charge for 
cancellation is 100% of the booking, so I dont see anything particularly disturbing about it 
although I can understand that it would contribute to Mr Ss perception that hes not been 
treated fairly. Ultimately, I think Mr S provided his card details so payment could be taken in 
connection with the booking, and this would have included payments required on 
cancellation.
Should Halifax have attempted a chargeback?
In order for a chargeback to be successful, Mr S would have needed to demonstrate that he 
was due a refund from the hotel in the circumstances. For the reasons Ive explained above, 
I dont think hed have been able to show that he was due a refund. 
Overall conclusions
While I can understand why Mr S feels hard done by, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
order Halifax to refund him the cost of his cancelled hotel stay. This is because I dont think 
he has a valid claim against the bank under section 75 of the CCA in respect of this, and I 
wouldnt have expected it to attempt a chargeback to reclaim the funds in a scenario like this 
where the prospects of success were low.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman