DRN-3041904
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt send her statements for her 
account when she asked them. 
Miss C also complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled things when 
she tried to raise a complaint to them, through her representative.
What happened
In January 2021, Nat West made the commercial decision to close Miss Cs account. Miss C 
wanted to see a copy of her account statements so she could be sure Nat West had 
released all of the money due to her. Miss C didnt receive any statements from Nat West.
In May 2021, Miss Cs representative asked Nat West to send the statements to Miss C and 
tried to raise a complaint. The Nat West advisor said they wouldnt order the missing 
statements, couldnt raise a complaint, and refused to pass Miss Cs representative over to a 
more senior colleague. 
Nat West upheld Miss Cs complaint. They said there wasnt any notes or evidence to 
confirm the statements were sent. And they think their call handler could have handled 
things better when Miss Cs representative asked to order the missing statements and raise 
a complaint. Nat West offered £50 compensation to Miss C, plus £16.20 to make up for the 
three hours spent on the phone regarding this issue.
Our investigator thought Nat Wests offer fairly reflected the inconvenience caused and didnt 
ask them to pay anything more. Our investigator also explained that we couldnt look at the 
overall complaint handling or the impact the situation had on Miss Cs representative, 
because he isnt an eligible consumer for this complaint.
Miss C asked an ombudsman to review things. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West have explained their usual process when closing an account is to send a copy of 
the account statements to the customer. Nat West have admitted they cant see this was 
done for Miss C in January 2021. In May 2021, when Miss Cs representative asked for a 
copy of the statements, he was faced with push back from Nat Wests staff.
I can appreciate why it would be inconvenient for Miss C not to have received her 
statements. Nat West had closed her account and she wanted to be sure they had released 
the correct amount of money to her. Nat West have explained Miss C would have lost 
access to her online banking when the account was closed, so Im satisfied the account 
statements would have been Miss Cs only option.
Nat West have admitted their error by not sending Miss C the statements when they should 
have  so this isnt in dispute. Therefore, I have to consider whether the £50 compensation 
is enough to put things right.
I havent seen any evidence of any financial loss to Miss C caused by this error. And Im 
pleased Miss C has since received the statements. Therefore, I think £50 fairly reflects the 
inconvenience of Miss C not having her statements sent to her when she should have.
Im aware Miss Cs representative spoke to Nat West about this issue in May 2021. The 
representative spent around three hours on the phone to Nat West and received poor 
customer service, which Nat West have admitted. Im pleased to see Nat West have 
reimbursed Miss C for the costs of the call as I think this puts her back into the position she 
would have been in, had her representative not had to spend time on the phone.
Miss C has expressed concern about how Nat West handled her complaint  namely that 
they wouldnt raise one when her representative asked. Our service can only consider 
complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points Miss C has 
raised about the handling of her complaint because it isnt a regulated activity.
Neither party have been able to provide copies of the call recordings which took place  so it 
would be unreasonable for me to comment on the overall customer service received. 
However, from Miss Cs submissions, it appears the conversations relating to this issue 
mainly took place between Nat West and her representative. The investigator has explained 
that Miss Cs representative isnt an eligible complainant. I appreciate Miss Cs 
representative was acting on behalf of Miss C  but for the purposes of this complaint, the 
relationship Nat West had was with Miss C  not her representative. So, the representatives 
distress and frustration arent something I can consider as part of Miss Cs complaint.
Overall, I think the £50 compensation for the trouble and upset of not receiving the 
statements, and the £16.20 reimbursement of the call costs is a fair way to settle this 
complaint. It therefore follows that I wont be asking Nat West to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman