DRN-3518292
The complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly declined his 
claim and cancelled his policy.
What happened
In 2016, Mr P bought an income protection insurance policy through a broker, underwritten 
by LV. He made a claim which LV declined.
LV said Mr P hadnt correctly answered a question about an illness he had when he bought 
the policy. It treated this as a careless misrepresentation, cancelled the policy and returned 
Mr Ps premiums. 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He was satisfied Mr P hadnt correctly answered the question and had he done so, 
ultimately, LV wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In summary, he says the 
reason for his claim had nothing to do with the misrepresentation. And there was never any 
mention about further doctors appointments which is just something LV has flagged to suit 
themselves.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying I have considered everything Mr P has said, even if I dont 
explicitly refer to it. My decision will only focus on what I consider to be key, as allowed by 
our rules.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to answer yes to the following question: 
In the last five years have you had any of the following; (This is regardless of 
whether or not you have seen your doctor or required treatment)seizures, fits, 
epilepsy, fainting, dizziness, tremors, blackouts, facial pains or migraines.
Ive looked at the question asked. And I dont think Mr P took reasonable care to answer the 
question properly as he had suffered from Bells palsy in 2016 before taking his policy.
LV has provided evidence from its underwriter and its criteria to show that if Mr P had 
answered the question correctly, it would have postponed its offer of a policy for six months. 
Within that time, Mr Ps medical records show he had a further episode of Bells Palsy and so 
LV would have postponed its offer for two years. By then, Mr P had other symptoms relating 
to his hands and so it wouldnt have offered a policy. Thats because LV doesnt provide 
cover with more than three exclusions in these circumstances. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
LV has classed Mr Ps misrepresentation as careless which I think is reasonable.  Ive 
looked at the actions LV can take in accordance with CIDRA. LV has cancelled the policy 
and returned Mr Ps premiums in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA which I think is 
the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
In his response to our investigator, Mr P says the misrepresentation had nothing to do with 
his claim and LV flagged appointments to suit themselves. I understand the point Mr P is 
making but I have to disagree with him. 
As LV has shown that it never would have offered Mr P a policy based on his medical 
history, the reason for the claim doesnt have to be linked to the misrepresentation. CIDRA 
allows an insurer to cancel a policy and return premiums in these circumstances. And LV is 
entitled to obtain and review medical evidence which is relevant to its decision. As the 
question asked about medical history in the last five years, any medical appointments within 
those five years would be relevant. So I dont think LV acted unfairly by reviewing Mr Ps 
medical history or referring to appointments within that time. 
In addition, Mr P has complained about the way LV handled his claim and the time it took to 
reach a decision. LV accepts that it didnt provide a good level of service as a result of 
delays for which it has paid £150 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman