DRN-2390499
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited wouldnt allow her to 
renew her term assurance policy at the end of its term. 
What happened
Mrs C took out a term assurance policy with a life insurance provider in 2001. The policy had 
a term of 19 years, meaning it was due to expire in 2020. In November 2019, Scottish 
Friendly took over the administration of the policy.
Mrs C says she spoke to the previous policy provider in mid-2019 and asked if shed be able 
to extend the cover to whole of life. She was told it wouldnt be a problem and to wait until 
nearer the time that it was due to end.
In mid-2020, Mrs C attempted to extend the term of her policy but Scottish Friendly told her 
she couldnt. It said the policy term couldnt be increased. Some policies had a renewable 
option, which allows it to renew for another five years at the end of the term. These policies 
could be renewed up to and including age 60 at next birthday. It said the policy documents 
would show if there was a renewable option. Mrs Cs policy had a specified end date in July 
2020 and there was no option to renew. 
Scottish Friendly said the previous policy provider had found no evidence of receiving 
contact from Mrs C in 2019, but it would ask them to search further if Mrs C provided the 
telephone number she called from and the number shed called. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. She said if shed been given the correct 
information when she called, she would have cancelled the policy and bought a better one 
elsewhere. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He said he couldnt see anything on the policy documents to suggest the policy 
could be renewed past its 19 year term. Hed asked Scottish Friendly to contact the previous 
provider to carry out a search for telephone calls between March and October 2019, but they 
couldnt find any.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view. She said she was certain shed been given the 
wrong information when she called the previous policy provider in 2019. If she had been 
given the correct information, she would have cancelled the policy quickly and taken up 
another policy with another company. So, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my answer will be disappointing to Mrs C, but Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Scottish Friendly has sent us a fact sheet with information about the policy. This says some 
policies could be renewed up to age 60 but the policy documents will show if they have a 
renewable option.
Theres no mention of the policy being renewable on Mrs Cs policy specifications document 
which gives an expiry date of 11 July 2020. The advice summary report sent to Mrs C when 
she took out the policy also doesnt say anything that suggests Mrs C was being sold a 
renewable policy. This says: the term policy was preferred to the renewable policy.
The original policy provider has confirmed that Mrs Cs policy was a standard term policy for 
19 years with a specified end date. It wasnt a Renewable Term plan and there was no 
option for that.
Having reviewed all the paperwork available to me, Im satisfied Mrs Cs policy wasnt 
renewable. 
Mrs C can clearly remember the previous policy provider telling her that she could renew the 
policy in 2019. I dont doubt this is her honest recollection of what happened. But I can see 
Scottish Friendly has asked the previous policy provider for evidence of the call, and theyve 
said they cant find any call notes or a recording. Mrs C has also done a data subject access 
request to the previous provider, and this hasnt resulted in any evidence of the conversation 
either. I appreciate this situation is distressing for Mrs C. But without this, Im unable to 
conclude that Mrs C was given the wrong information about the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman