DRN-1811952
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to increase its offer of compensation. 
What happened
Mrs Cs car was damaged whilst it was unattended. Ageas took it for repairs, but Mrs C had 
to return the car to the approved repairer for rectification work several times. She was still 
unhappy with the repairs and Ageas had an engineer inspect them. He thought two areas 
still needed repair. 
Ageas offered Mrs C £200 to make these repairs and £300 compensation for its handling of 
her claim. But Mrs C didnt think this was sufficient. She thought she shouldnt have to 
organise the repairs. And she was unhappy that she twice had to pay for an excess waiver 
for her hire car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had agreed that Mrs C had had a poor experience with her repairs. But he thought its offer of 
compensation and cash for the final repairs was fair and reasonable. He thought if the repair 
costs exceeded £200, then Ageas should pay for this. He thought Ageas wasnt responsible 
for the hire car excess waiver as Ageas hadnt been involved in that. 
Mrs C replied that shed incurred the hire car charges due to Ageas incompetence. She 
thought Ageas had a duty to repair the car completely. She thought Ageas offer of 
compensation was insufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C said her car was with the approved repairer four times so that rectification work could 
be done. And, even then, she said there were still areas of damage unrepaired. I can 
understand that Mrs C must have felt frustrated by this. I think its reasonable for Mrs C to 
expect the damage made to her car related to her claim to be fully repaired before it was 
returned to her. 
Ageas has explained that when it investigated Mrs Cs cars damage, it found that there had 
been poor repairs made to the same area in a previous incident and this had led to the car 
being deemed a total loss. I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to decline to repair 
this earlier damage as it was unrelated to Mrs Cs current claim. 
Ageas had its field engineer inspect the repairs on two occasions when Mrs C said she was 
dissatisfied with them. I think thats a reasonable way of resolving a dispute about repairs. In 
his final report, the engineer agreed that Ageas was responsible for repairing two areas out 
of five that Mrs C had identified. He said that two other areas of damage were due to the 
prior poor repairs and one was old damage. 
Were not engineers. We dont not assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be 
caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Ive not seen that Ageas had any other expert engineering evidence to consider. So I think it 
reasonably accepted the expert evidence of the field engineer. He estimated that it would 
cost £200 to make repairs to the two areas that he thought were Ageas responsibility and 
Ageas has now paid Mrs C this. 
Mrs C was unhappy that Ageas paid her a cash sum to have the final repairs made to her 
car. She felt that this should be Ageas responsibility. 
I can see that on page 7 of Mrs Cs policy booklet, its explained that Ageas can either repair 
the car or pay for the cost of the repairs. I think this is a common policy terms. I can 
understand that Mrs C feels that Ageas has passed responsibility to her for the final repairs 
to her car. But I cant say that this is unfair or unreasonable as its in keeping with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
The investigator said that hed expect Ageas to cover the cost of these repairs if they 
exceeded £200. Ageas didnt object to this and I think its fair and reasonable that if Mrs C 
finds that these repairs exceed £200, then she should pass the invoices to Ageas to 
consider.  
Ageas agreed that further rectification work was needed on several occasions when this 
shouldnt have happened. When a business makes a mistake, as Ageas accepts it has done 
here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also 
consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I think, based on the engineers report, Ageas has done what it needs to do to rectify the 
repairs. But I can see that Mrs C had to raise her concerns several times. The time it took 
between the incident and Ageas final inspection of the car was just under two months. But 
Mrs C had access to a courtesy car in this time, so she wasnt without transport. 
Ageas offered Mrs C £300 for her trouble and inconvenience. It also agreed to repair one 
area where it couldnt prove it wasnt claim-related. I think thats in keeping with what Id 
award in similar situations. So I dont require Ageas to increase its offer. 
Mrs C said she had to pay her policy excess waiver for the courtesy car on two occasions. 
She said this was Ageas fault because she had to return her car for further repairs and so 
take out another courtesy car. But I dont agree this was Ageas responsibility. I think it was 
Mrs Cs decision to take out the policy excess waiver, and it was with an unrelated business. 
So I cant reasonably hold Ageas responsible for this additional cost Mrs C incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman