DRN-2184842
Complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Harpenden Building Society (HBS) didnt do enough to 
help them when they were victims of a scam.
Background
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs H were contacted by telephone by a man who claimed to be 
investigating suspicious activity on their current account. He claimed to be an employee of 
the Financial Conduct Authority and told them that two suspicious attempted payments had 
been blocked. Mr and Mrs H were told that their money would be at risk if it was left in their 
account with HBS but that safe accounts had been opened for them with another bank. They 
were told they needed to move their money from their account with HBS in order to make 
sure they werent at risk of fraud.
They were also told that staff at HBS were complicit in this fraud. It was therefore imperative 
that they not reveal the real reason they were moving the money. They told us that the 
fraudster suggested they say they were moving the money to get a better rate elsewhere or 
perhaps that it was a gift to Mr and Mrs Hs grandchildren.
They visited their local branch and made three transfers:
On 28 June, they transferred £25,000 explaining to the branch staff that they were 
going to get a better rate elsewhere
On 1 July, they made another transfer of £15,000. They explained it to branch staff in 
the same way.
On 19 July, they made another transfer of £20,000. This time they told branch staff 
that it was a gift to their grandchildren.
Mrs H explained to her sister that shed made the transfers and why. Her sister was 
immediately suspicious and, as a result of her intervention, Mr and Mrs H informed HBS on 
22 July that theyd been the victims of a scam. HBS investigated but said it didnt think there 
was anything it couldve done to prevent the scam. Although it sympathised with the very 
significant losses Mr and Mrs H had experienced, it didnt think it could be considered at 
fault.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service. It was looked at by an investigator who 
upheld it. The investigator said that these transactions were anomalous and out of character. 
HBS ought to have recognised this and queried it with Mr and Mrs H.
Although theyd been given a cover story to use when asked why they were moving the 
money, it didnt appear as if there was any depth to the coaching theyd been given by the 
scammers. The investigator felt it was likely that Mr and Mrs H wouldve failed to 
convincingly answer any further questions about these transfers. HBS had therefore missed 
an opportunity to disabuse Mr and Mrs H of the belief that they were helping to prevent 
fraud.
HBS disagreed with the investigators position. It argued that:
Its unknowable whether Mr and Mrs H wouldve been able to answer further 
questions about the transfers. Theres no way of proving that they wouldve failed to 
do so.
It had reviewed the CCTV footage of each of Mr and Mrs Hs visits to the branch. On 
this footage, Mr and Mrs H didnt appear terrified or vulnerable and so it wouldnt 
have expected branch staff to identity that anything was amiss. 
The account name that was given for each payment was for Mr and Mrs H. These 
accounts werent actually in their names, but there was no way for branch staff to 
have known that. It wouldve appeared to the HBS staff that Mr and Mrs H were 
simply transferring money from one of their accounts to another.
HBS disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It later offered to refund the third of these transfers in full and final settlement of 
the complaint and pay £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this offer, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
the come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
complaint, Im required to consider relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case. But that isnt the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms like HBS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances)look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of)
in relation to branch transactions, follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a
bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so considering the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
The Banking Protocol is relevant to this complaint. I have set out more information about that 
below. However, Id note the BSI Code also contains similar recommendations to detect and 
prevent fraud.
The Banking Protocol
The Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office) and Trading Standards
aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and implementing
safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. It
has been fully in force since March 2018.
In broad terms, according to UK Finances toolkit for PSPs, financial businesses commit to:
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the 
Banking Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly question the customer about the withdrawal or transaction and their 
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are 
helping to catch a corrupt bank employee and may have been given a cover story to 
tell if asked about the transaction.
Consider the responses against what they expect as normal activity on the 
individuals account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer may be 
the victim of fraud, they should notify a senior member of staff, who should take the 
customer to a quiet area and ask further questions to establish more details.
If the senior colleague believes the customer is the victim of fraud, either as a result 
of the answers provided or through their general behaviour, they should call the 
Police immediately who will attend the branch to speak to the customer.
The Banking Protocol procedures are not limited to elderly or vulnerable customers, or
certain fraud types, and bank staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they are not
sure. For example, UK Finances Bank Colleague FAQs says:
Does it only relate to elderly or vulnerable customers?
No, whilst crime data analysis and demographics indicate that the 70 and over age
group are targeted more than other age groups for courier & rogue trader frauds,
anyone can be the victim of fraud and we should strive to protect all customers fromfinancial harm.
Does the Banking Protocol only relate to courier fraud or rogue trader offences?
No. Customers may have been defrauded in several ways. Courier fraud, and rogue
trader offences are two of the most common offences in which suspects ask the 
victim to attend banks to make withdrawals or transfers. However, customers may 
have been the victim of another fraud, such as romance fraud or investment fraud. 
The Banking Protocol process should be followed for any transaction which you feel 
is unusual as you may prevent the customer from becoming a victim of fraud.
Im a bank colleague what should I look out for?
When a customer requests a cash withdrawal or transfer, firstly consider your internal
training and procedures. In the circumstances presented does the request appear to 
be out of character. Is the request for a significant amount? Does the account history 
show any similar withdrawals or transfers recently? Has the customer provided an 
explanation for the withdrawal? Are they elderly, vulnerable, upset or nervous? Is the 
customer on the phone to while making the request (in some cases suspects stay on 
the phone to the victims whilst they are conducting transactions)? Bear in mind that 
as part of the fraud the customer may have been convinced, they are helping to 
catch corrupt bank staff and given a story to tell you.
Im a bank colleague what are my responsibilities?
If you identify a customer requesting a cash withdrawal or transfer you think is 
unusual, commence the Banking Protocol procedure. Ask the customer questions 
about the transaction. Consider the Banking Protocol questions on the prompt card. If 
you have any concerns raise the issue with a senior colleague.
I think a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the Banking 
Protocol?
Yes. If you have questioned the customer and are still not sure, the police urge you
to still call them. It is not possible to answer every what if so if you are suspicious
or concerned but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking
Protocol. You might prevent a customer becoming the victim of a crime.
Did HBS act fairly and reasonably in this case?
In this case I need to decide whether HBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr and Mrs H when they transferred £60,000 to scammers over three transactions. 
As Ive explained, good industry practice required that HBS needed to be on the lookout for 
unusual or out of character transactions. Im satisfied that these three transactions were 
clearly unusual and out of character for Mr and Mrs H and Im satisfied HBS ought to have 
recognised this too.
I say that because Ive looked at a statement history for this account. Its clear that most of 
the transactions are for much smaller amounts. This had been the case for some time. The 
next largest payment on their statement history was for £6,000  much lower than the 
individual payments they made to the scammers. Mr and Mrs H had made very little use of 
the faster payments system. And finally, the total value of those payments represented most 
of the balance of the account. This abrupt change in the way Mr and Mrs H were using the 
account ought to have caused concern for HBS.
Its also significant that Mr and Mrs H were in their late 80s at the time of the scam. HBS has 
argued that age alone doesnt make a person vulnerable and that any finding to the contrary 
would be discriminatory. I dont know whether it would be right to consider Mr and Mrs H to 
be vulnerable customers. But their age is a relevant personal circumstance that HBS ought to have kept in mind. This age profile is one that is disproportionately targeted by fraudsters. 
Their age amplified the likelihood that they were being targeted as part of a scam. This is 
recognised by the Banking Protocol and the British Bankers Associations report Improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances.
 
Im satisfied HBS staff ought reasonably to have had this in their mind at the time Mr and 
Mrs H attempted to transfer large amounts of money from their savings account, although its 
important to note that branch staff should be on the lookout for any unusual or out of 
character transaction  whether a customer is vulnerable or not.
The combination of these factors (i.e. Mr and Mrs Hs age and the very sudden change in 
spending behaviour on the account) shouldve been enough for HBS to have treated the 
transactions as out of character and recognised that Mr and Mrs H were at heightened risk 
of financial harm. 
Mr and Mrs H were asked about the motivation behind the transfers. On the first two 
occasions they said it was to obtain a better rate elsewhere  and on the last occasion, they 
said it was a gift for their grandchildren. I understand from the submissions provided by both 
parties that Mr and Mrs H werent asked any further questions and these explanations were 
taken at face value. Ive thought carefully about whether, in these particular circumstances, 
this was adequate, or whether HBS should fairly and reasonably have asked additional 
questions.  
Having done so, I think accepting the explanation that they offered in respect of the first 
payment (i.e. that they wanted to get a better rate elsewhere) represented a missed 
opportunity. Even taken in isolation, I consider the first payment Mr and Mrs H made to the 
scammer to be out of character and unusual (for the reasons Ive previously explained). And 
while I accept that the reason Mr and Mrs H gave for the payment was plausible, I consider 
branch staff ought fairly and reasonably to have kept in mind that customers such as Mr and 
Mrs H may have been given a cover story (particularly considering their age at the time) and 
generally speaking, a fraudster would more likely provide their victim with a plausible rather 
than implausible cover story to increase their chances of receiving money. Although I accept 
that, on the face of the things, the reason for the payment wasnt entirely implausible, Im 
satisfied that HBS ought to have recognised there was a possibility Mr and Mrs H mightve 
been provided a cover story. 
Branch staff dont have to assume that customers are telling the truth  its widely accepted 
that a common feature of scam-related transfers is that customers are persuaded not to tell 
the truth. Banks recognise that, and in my view should, as a matter of good practice take that 
into account when deciding whether to take further steps before accepting a customers 
instruction to process a payment.
 
While I accept branch staff do ultimately have to make decisions based on the information 
they are given by customers, it is up to the branch staff to find out enough about the purpose 
of the payment before it does so. In this case, Mr and Mrs H were making an unusual and 
out of character payment when they requested the £25,000 payment on 28 June 2019. So 
even through the reason for the payment was plausible at first glance, for the reasons I have 
given, I think HBS branch staff ought fairly and reasonably to have asked further questions in 
order to satisfy themselves Mr and Mrs H werent likely to be at risk of financial harm in all 
the circumstances of the transaction.
For example, HBS couldve asked Mr and Mrs H for further information about the
recipient accounts  including, such things as what type of account they were moving the
money to (that is the savings account product name), whether they would be getting a better
interest rate at the other banks and what that rate was (given they were moving money fromtheir savings account). And, depending on the answers received, it might also have been 
appropriate to ask for some evidence to link Mr and Mrs H with the recipient accounts. 
I think its unlikely that theyd have been able to give convincing answers to these questions. 
They gave the investigator an account of the conversations they had with the scammer, 
which I find it to be plausible and persuasive. It appears that, although they were supplied 
with an explanation to offer to branch staff if asked why they were moving their money, it 
doesnt sound like they were told anything to help them respond to any follow up questions. I 
find it unlikely that theyd have been able to come up with convincing responses to the 
questions given the lack of detail to the cover stories theyd been provided by the scammer.
HBS has said its impossible to know with certainty how Mr and Mrs H wouldve responded 
to further questioning and I agree. But I have to decide this case on the balance of 
probabilities  and I find it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H wouldve struggled to 
provide convincing responses to these questions. This wouldve enabled branch staff to 
recognise that something was amiss. Im persuaded HBS ought fairly and reasonably to 
have told Mr and Mrs H about their concern they might be the victim of a scam in a bespoke 
and tailored way.
Given that these circumstances carried the hallmarks of a safe account scam, they needed 
to bring to life what that type of scam involves. If theyd done so, I think its more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs H wouldve realised what was going on, and the scam wouldve been 
prevented. I know that Mr and Mrs H believed what the scammer had told them about HBS 
staff being complicit in fraud. But Im persuaded that, once they understood what a safe 
account scam was and how it operated, theyd have understood the reality of the situation.
If HBS had been able to break the spell Mr and Mrs H were under at the point of the first 
payment, it follows that its unlikely theyd have been tricked into making the subsequent two 
payments. And by the point they were making a second and third large payment in quick 
succession, HBS ought to have been even more concerned about the abrupt change in the 
use of the account.
HBS has said branch staff had no cause to be suspicious because they were told that each 
account was in Mr and Mrs Hs name. They therefore had no reason to suspect that the 
payments werent genuinely being moved to another account. This is a commonly used 
tactic with scams like this one and, as the Confirmation of Payee process hadnt been 
introduced at the time, branch staff shouldnt have been reassured by the fact that the 
payments appeared to be directed to accounts in the name of Mr and Mrs H. I dont think it 
was reasonable for HBS to assume this was a legitimate payment on this basis.
HBS has also attached a lot of significance to what it observed (or didnt observe) about Mr 
and Mrs Hs body language when it studied the CCTV of their branch visits. But Im afraid I 
dont attach the same level of significance.  Theres no requirement that Mr and Mrs H be 
visibly anxious or distressed for intervention on the part of HBS to be justified. As Ive set out 
above, the sudden change in the payment behaviour on the account was enough to justify 
HBS looking at the payments more closely than they did. And if theyd questioned Mr and 
Mrs H in more detail about them, I think its more likely than not that the scam wouldve 
unravelled and would have been prevented, for the reasons Ive explained.
Finally, Ive considered the comments by HBS about whether Mr and Mrs H shouldve been 
more careful to prevent themselves from falling victim to the scam. In my view, they were 
carefully and skilfully manipulated into thinking their money was at risk. And I dont think Mr 
and Mrs Hs actions, while they were under the spell of a scammer, means that HBS 
shouldnt have done more to protect them, or that they shouldnt now be compensated.
Overall, Im satisfied that, had HBS taken the steps I think it ought fairly and reasonablyto have taken, the scam wouldve been prevented. It follows that Im satisfied none of the
transactions wouldve taken place, and Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have experienced these 
losses.
Non-financial loss
The investigator recommended that HBS also pay £500 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience that was caused to Mr and Mrs H. From what theyve told us, the loss of such 
a large sum of money was a significant source of distress. Mr and Mrs H told us theyve 
been increasingly reliant on their local branch. To have fallen victim to a scam like this has 
compromised their confidence in the branch and the safety of their money. Its also 
significant. Its also significant that, in this case, Mr and Mrs Hs losses couldve been 
considerably more but for the intervention or Mrs Hs sister. Ive carefully considered the 
impact the scam had on Mr and Mrs H and I think £500 represents fair compensation for the 
distress it caused to them.
Decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Harpenden Building Society needs to refund the three transactions to Mr and Mrs H.
 
It also needs to add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum for each of the transactions 
from the date the transfers left their account until the date they are refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
David Perry
Ombudsman