DRN-4411187
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his motor 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to settle his claim.
What happened
Mr D took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral through an on-line price comparison 
website.
After a third-party vehicle collided with him whilst he was stationary, he notified Admiral.
Admiral declined to settle the claim and avoided his policy.
Admiral said Mr D answered the question it asked about modifications to his van incorrectly. 
And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid 
his policy, decline his claim because of this and keep the premiums hed already paid.
Mr D brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought it should be upheld. They 
didnt feel it was reasonable to say Mr D misrepresented himself in this case. They said Mr D 
declared his job as a farrier and it seemed reasonable to assume the vehicle would be 
adapted to fit his needs.
Admiral doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said Mr D insured the van as a standard van when he was aware it wasnt. It said a standard 
van does not come with a working forge fitted in the back to enable someone to use the van 
itself as a tool of the trade. It said this was reckless. It said had the conversion been 
declared it would not have offered a policy.
My provisional decision
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to tell it about the job specific modifications to his vehicle when taking out his policy.
When Mr D took out his policy this was completed by using an on-line comparison website. 
Although Admiral were unable to supply the questions asked by the on-line comparison 
website, it was confirmed the questions had not changed since 2019. I checked the 
quotation questions, after identifying the van to be insured, there is a question that says;
 Has the van been modified in any way?
This includes fitting it with any optional extras such as changes to the bodywork, engine or 
wheels.
I saw Mr D said he may have used the car insurance questions on the website rather than 
the van questions, so may not have seen this question. However I think this is unlikely as the 
on-line comparison website user is transferred to the van insurance application questions 
when the details of the vehicle are found to be a van. 
Ultimately it is Mr Ds responsibility to check the details of his application and the insurance 
policy offered. In this case he said his van was not modified. And I saw his policy 
documentation says there were no modifications to the van.
I dont think Mr D took reasonable care to accurately complete his application for a motor 
insurance policy or to check the details of the policy offered .
Admiral has provided evidence by way of its underwriting criteria which shows it would not 
offer cover to a van that had been modified for a farrier workshop either a full or a part 
conversion. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Admiral said Mr Ds misrepresentation was reckless because the information about the 
specification and body type was known to him and he had more than one occasion to make 
sure Admiral held the correct information. 
I dont agree Mr Ds misrepresentation was reckless, I think he was careless. He said he 
thought as the van was marketed as a farrier vehicle and it was exactly as it was when he 
bought it from the main dealer that it was not modified. He had always disclosed his 
occupation as a farrier, that he used the van in the course of his work and that he carried 
hazardous materials. As he had disclosed this he wrongly assumed he was covered by his 
policy. I do not think Mr D misled Admiral for financial gain or to gain a policy it would not 
have offered had it known the correct information about his van. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Admiral can take in accordance with CIDRA.
As Admiral have shown evidence it would not have offered cover if it had known the van was 
a farrier conversion, it can avoid the policy and treat it as if it never existed and not deal with 
the claim. And it should return any unused premiums.
   
In this case as Admiral treated the misrepresentation as reckless, it avoided Mr Ds policy, 
declined his claim because of this and kept the premiums hed already paid.
Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to avoid Mr Ds policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as 
this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Admiral does not have to deal with his 
claim following the incident with his van. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Admiral to rely on it to avoid Mr Ds 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.In light of all this I think the fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint is that the 
avoidance of the policy is amended and recorded as careless misrepresentation. As Admiral 
declared his policy null and void from the inception date it should return Mr Ds policy 
premiums from the start of the policy term in March 2021.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D responded  and said
1. As the questions asked during his application for a motor insurance policy were asked on 
the on-line price comparison website and not on the Admiral website, it could not draw its 
conclusions based on the questions asked on its own website. And there was no option 
to select a farrier workshop conversion on the on-line price comparison website.
2. He said the forge was not part of the modification to the van but a tool he used for his 
job. He believed the only mistake he made was not realising that the fitting of the back 
and shelving was considered as a modification and not an optional extra. He said the 
modifications made were for safety reasons. He could not see how this meant he had 
acted either carelessly or recklessly. 
3. He thought Admiral should not have offered him van insurance cover with or without 
modifications when it was aware he was a farrier and used his vehicle for work.
4. As Admiral said it should have voided his policy from inception does that mean it should 
refund all his premiums from previous years.
5. Will the record now be removed from the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE) as he 
has been caused a significant financial loss.
Admiral responded to say it had no further comments to provide and accepted the proposed 
outcome.
When asked, Admiral confirmed it declared Mr Ds policy null and void from the intial 
inception in 2019. It provided the detail of the policy terms and amounts of the premium paid 
each year. Total for all terms was £1,156.24.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Ds comments
1. In my provisional response I have referred to the questions asked on the on-line price 
comparison website and I have made my decision based on these, and not the questions 
on Admirals website. 
2. I can accept the forge was not part of the modification, but Mr D said he bought the van 
as a farrier vehicle and accepted he did not declare any modifications when asked by the 
on-line price comparison website. Due to this, no further questions were asked about 
modifications. As previously stated Admiral showed evidence it would not offer cover to a 
van that had been modified for a farrier workshop either a full or a part conversion.
3. Admiral, as is any insurer, is entitled to take its own view on how to underwrite the 
policies it offers. It will decide what factors to take into account. We are not the industry 
regulator and cannot tell it how it must assess risk and who it can and cannot insure.
4. Admiral have clarified it had declared the policy null and void from the initial inception in 
2019. This means a refund is due for all three years premiums as none of them exist. 
5. Admiral must amend any internal or external records to record the misrepresentation as 
careless rather than deliberate.
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed, I have updated my provisional decision in relation to 
the refund of premiums required. Admiral are aware of this.I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Admiral to record the avoidance of Mr Ds policy as 
careless misrepresentation on both internal and external records and return the policy 
premiums from initial inception in 2019. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to record the avoidance of Mr Ds policy as 
careless misrepresentation on both internal and external records and return the policy 
premiums from the start of the policy in February 2019. This is a total of £1,156.24.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman