DRN-3144921
The complaint
Mr A has complained HSBC UK Bank plc didnt resolve unauthorised transactions from his 
account. 
What happened
Mr A lives overseas but has an account with HSBC. In 2020 he started to get letters from 
HSBC about overdraft costs. His account had gone overdrawn following a number of direct 
debit transactions.
Three payment arrangements to different direct debit originators had been set up. These 
collected payments for £250 and £245 and caused Mr As account to go overdrawn. Mr A 
complained through our service. He was concerned HSBC had allowed unauthorised access 
to his account.
HSBC confirmed that one direct debit had never been effectively collected as Mr As account 
was already overdrawn. They had no record of Mr A asking to cancel the other two direct 
debit arrangements so had done nothing with those.
Our investigator agreed Mr A had most likely not authorised the direct debits to be set up. 
HSBC were willing to refund these through the industry-agreed indemnity scheme.
Mr A was unhappy with this outcome. He believed HSBC may have benefitted from these 
transactions. He was also concerned about monthly payments he was no longer receiving 
into this account.
Mr As complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.  
Mr A has confirmed he never authorised the set up of three direct debits to different 
originators. He was overseas at the time and I have to say all three originators look out of 
character.
Although Mr A has accused HSBC of allowing unauthorised access, I dont think this is the 
case at all. I suspect someone was able to find out his sort code and account details and 
was able to set up fraudulent direct debits. HSBC would get the appropriate instruction but 
would immediately have no way of not knowing these didnt come from Mr A himself.
Ive also seen no evidence that HSBC could influence the pension payments Mr A says 
should be made into this account. These are known as push payments  as such theyre 
completely under the control of the person or business making these payments. I suggest 
Mr A contacts his pension provider to find out why payments stopped.
Putting things right
As our investigator agreed with HSBC the best way to put things right is for them to dispute 
these direct debit arrangements  which I believe werent authorised by Mr A  and ensure 
the money gets refunded to his account. Im sure the overdraft charges will also be waived 
by HSBC as these charges only ended up being added to his account because the 
unauthorised transactions sent the account overdrawn. 
I know HSBC has already agreed to take these actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Refund money to Mr As current account for the disputed direct debit transactions 
made in 2019 and 2020; and
Ensure the overdraft charges are waived to take account of the state of his account 
in 2019 and 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman