DRN-4275356
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd charged them interest on a portion of an
overseas cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M withdrew £207 from an ATM while holidaying in the Caribbean and found
that theyd incurred a 3% charge on £7 of that withdrawal. When Mrs M and Mr M contacted
Monzo about this, they were told that it was correct because their fee-free daily withdrawal
limit was £200. But Mrs M and Mr M believed they met Monzos criteria to qualify for a higher
fee-free withdrawal limit of £400, so they raised a complaint.
Monzo responded to Mrs M and Mr M and reiterated that they hadnt qualified for the higher
fee-free withdrawal limit as they believed. Mrs M and Mr M werent satisfied with Monzos
response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Monzo could have explained the
criteria for being eligible to benefit from the higher fee-free withdrawal limit more clearly, but
felt that ultimately, Mrs M and Mr M had been charged correctly by Monzo. Mrs M and Mr M
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 3 July 2023 as follows:
Monzo have explained that Mrs M and Mr M have a standard Monzo account, and 
not a fee-paying Monzo Plus account, and that its only Monzo Plus account holders 
who are eligible to receive the higher fee-free withdrawal limit that Mrs M and Mr M 
refer to.
However, Mrs M and Mr M point out that their belief that they do qualify for the higher 
fee- free limit comes from Monzos own literature, which includes the following:
Understand your overseas ATM cash withdrawal fees.
Those who meet the criteria for higher allowances or have Monzo Plus get 
unlimited fee-free case withdrawals in the UK and EEA, and fee-free 
withdrawals on up to £400 everywhere else.
Mrs M and Mr M note that they do meet Monzos criteria for higher allowances, which
includes that account holders must pay at least £500 every 35 days into a Monzo 
account and have at least one active Direct Debit on the same account. And, having 
reviewed Mrs M and Mr Ms Monzo account statements, Im satisfied they met those 
criteria, so I understand why they felt they should have been entitled to the £400 fee-
free limit referred to above.
In their response to Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint, Monzo explained that the £400 fee-
free limit is only available for customers who are subscribed to Monzo Plus.
But this isnt what Monzos literature quoted above describes, which instead sets the 
criteria for qualifying for the higher fee-free limit as being those who meet the criteria 
for higher allowances or have Monzo Plus.
Monzo note that the information page which included the quoted paragraph also 
referred their customers to their fees and allowances page which provided the correct 
information that only Monzo Plus customers were eligible to receive the higher fee-
free withdrawal limit.
But I dont see any reason why Mrs M and Mr M would reasonably have had cause to 
review Monzos fees and allowances page, given that the quoted paragraph provides 
all the information necessary for Mrs M and Mr M to have understood that if they did 
meet the criteria for higher allowances  which they did  then they were entitled to 
receive the higher fee-free allowance.
All of which means that my provisional decision here will be that Im upholding this 
complaint in Mrs M and Mr Ms favour on the basis that Im satisfied that they did act 
on a reasonably held belief, formed by reading Monzos own literature, that they were 
entitled to the higher fee-free limit in this instance.
As such, my provisional instructions to Monzo are that they must reimburse the 3% 
charge applied to the £7 that incurred that charge back to Mrs M and Mr M along with 
8% interest. Additionally, Monzo must also make a payment of £100 to Mrs M and Mr 
M as compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused  which I feel 
could have been avoided had Monzo recognised why and how Mrs M and Mr M 
came to the belief that they should be entitled to the higher fee-free limit when they 
first brought the matter to Monzos attention.
Monzo responded to my provisional decision and reiterated that they felt they had charged 
fees in line with their terms. However, Monzo didnt provide any new information that I feel 
gives me cause to change my decision here  which is that I feel it was reasonable for Mrs 
M and Mr M to believe they did qualify for the higher fee-free allowance on the basis of the 
information provided by Monzo as quoted above. 
Monzo also explained that they felt the transaction had exceeded £200 because of a fee 
imposed by the ATM provider. But I dont see any evidence of such a locally imposed fee on 
the information Monzo have provided. And even if such a fee had been imposed, it wouldnt 
affect my view that it was reasonable for Mrs M and Mr M to believe that they qualified for 
the higher fee-free allowance as previously discussed.
All of which means that I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mrs M and Mr Ms 
favour on the basis explained above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint 
in Mr M and Mrs Ms favour.
Putting things right
Monzo must reimburse the 3% charge applied to the £7 that incurred that charge back to 
Mrs M and Mr M along with 8% interest on that charged amount. Monzo must also make a payment of £100 to Mrs M and Mr M as compensation for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman