The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (HSBC) refused to 
change her name using only the deed poll document she provided.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs E wrote to HSBC to inform it that shes changed her name by deed poll. 
Her first name had been removed, and she was now using her middle name as her first 
name instead. Her surname remained the same. 
HSBC acknowledged her request and a few days later spoke to Mrs E to inform her that in 
line with their procedures, she would need to provide proof of identification (ID) in the form of 
a passport or driving licence. 
Mrs E was unhappy and made a complaint to HSBC. She said shes been to other 
organisations, and they changed her name, accepted the deed poll as proof and did this 
without requesting further proof of ID. 
HSBC responded to Mrs E. It said that in line with its procedures, it required proof of ID in 
the form of a passport or a driving licence. It said its policy will be reviewed but until then it 
would still require the additional ID. 
During this communication, HSBC changed her name as per the original request but then 
changed it back. It said it shouldn't have done this, apologised for this error and awarded 
Mrs E £100 compensation. 
Mrs E referred the complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it. She said 
HSBC had followed its policy and therefore she didn't think it had done anything wrong in 
asking for the additional ID. She also said while HSBC made an error in changing her name, 
it accepted this was an error, had corrected this and awarded £100 compensation. She 
thought this offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs E didn't agree with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
DRN-1407547The banks terms and conditions state that for All other name changes (including gender 
change), the following documents would be required :
Witnessed deed poll or Statutory Declaration and supporting identification (ID) in their new 
name (i.e certified copy of driving licence or passport).
HSBCs policy says that both the deed poll and supporting identification will be required in 
order for it to change the name on her account.  Having considered this, I cant see that 
HSBC has asked for anything thats out of line with their procedures.
I acknowledge that Mrs E has said the other organisations she asked to change her name 
havent asked for additional proof of ID. And while I understand why shes unhappy because 
of this, I cant see that HSBC has acted unreasonably. It has accepted her feedback and its 
been taken on board. Its also confirmed it will be reviewing its own policy for this 
requirement. However, in the meantime, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable that the 
supporting ID is required in order to change her name on the account. 
I appreciate HSBC made an error in changing her name despite it informing Mrs E that it 
couldn't. However, it accepted this error, apologised and awarded £100 compensation in 
recognition of this. I think this offer is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that HSBC did anything wrong. It asked for supporting ID in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. I also dont think Mrs E has been treated 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. It follows that I dont think 
HSBC needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
First Direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman