DRN-1612293
 
The complaint
Mr D complains, through his representative Mrs C, that American International Group UK 
Limited wrongly declined a claim on Mr Ds personal accident plan.
What happened
Mr D took out the plan in April 2010. It provided a benefit of up to £250,000 for accidental 
injury for a premium of just over £7 each month.
In January 2013 Mr D was taken to hospital having been found in his office with a knife 
wound to his neck. He then had a stroke whilst undergoing an operation. He is currently in 
full time residential care. 
In 2019 a claim was made on his personal accident by Mrs C on his behalf. She was asked 
to provide further evidence to show that the injury Mr D had suffered was caused by an 
accident. This led Mrs C to complain on behalf of Mr D. 
AIG didnt uphold the complaint. In its response it said that the doctor who had completed 
the claim form had not confirmed the injury was from an accident. It said that Mrs C had 
been told what information she needed to provide and why and that it is unable to consider 
the claim without further evidence.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary she said she hadnt seen enough evidence that an accident, within the definition 
within the policy terms, had occurred. She referred to a telephone call made to AIG in 2013 
which referred to Mr D having attempted to commit suicide. She noted AIG had tried to get 
further information from the police without success.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she hadnt called AIG in 2013, as she 
was unaware of the policy until 2019 and asked for a copy of the call  which was provided 
to her. She said she had no reason to think that Mr D had suffered anything more than an 
accident in 2013 as she wasnt with him at the time and he was unable to speak until several 
months later. She says that Mr D insists that what happened was an accident. She says the 
fact it was an accident is backed up by Mr Ds GP who has helped her with the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Mrs C finds herself in as a result of what has 
happened to Mr D. It is entirely understandable why she made a claim on the policy and why 
she has pursued this complaint.
But I cannot allow my sympathy for her position to influence my findings in this complaint. 
Those findings, where there is a dispute about the facts, are made on a balance of 
probabilities, what is more likely than not.
The claim form I have seen refers to Mr D having been found in his business office by a 
colleague with a wound to his neck and then that he suffered a stroke. A GP has also 
provided information within the claim form which repeats what happened and then provides 
answers to various medical questions within the claim form. 
The policy terms define an accident as follows;
Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and unexpected event external to the body, 
happening at an identifiable time and place whilst the policy is in force.
The terms also include the following exclusions under which no benefit will be payable. 
These include the following:
6.e. if your injuries are intentionally self-inflicted.
And:
6.f. if bodily injury is sustained whilst you commit or attempt to commit suicide.
AIG has made the point that it for the person claiming to provide evidence that an injury was 
as a result of accident. In some claims this will be easy to establish without too much 
difficulty. This is not such a claim given no evidence has been provided as to how Mr D 
ended up with a knife wound to his neck in his own office. This is not something that I think 
would be expected to ordinarily happen accidentally within an office. 
Mrs C has suggested the injury may have been caused by a third party, but at the same time 
has indicated she didnt think the police were involved. If there was potentially third-party 
involvement it could be expected the police would investigate this and that Mrs C would be 
aware of this and be able to provide evidence of this. I note AIG tried to obtain information 
from the police without success.
In addition to the lack of evidence that the injury was caused by accident there is some 
evidence it wasnt.
In a call to AIG in 2013 the caller clearly stated that Mr D had tried to commit suicide and 
that this probably invalidated the plan. The caller also clearly identified Mr D as their 
husband.
Mrs C accepted in a telephone calls with AIG in 2019 that she had called in 2013 having 
come across the plan  although in another call and in correspondence with us she said she 
had only become aware of the plan in 2019.
Mrs D has said that she never told AIG that Mr D tried to commit suicide. She had not had 
the benefit of listening to the call at that time as it wasnt available. But AIG did find the call, 
and this was given to Mrs C, although I have seen no further comments from her about this.
Having listened carefully to all the calls I have referred to I think it is more likely than not that 
Mrs C was the person who called AIG in 2013. She has accepted that she did make a call at 
that time and I can see no basis for thinking that anyone else wouldve had reason to call 
AIG in 2013 about what had happened to Mr D and about the plan he had in place for 
personal accident cover. It follows that I think it is more likely than not that Mrs C did tell AIG 
in 2013 that Mr D had tried to commit suicide.In the circumstances I dont think AIG has acted unfairly in refusing to pay out on the claim 
based on the evidence that has been provided to date. Mrs C should note that if she is able 
to provide further evidence to show that the injury was accidental then AIG would consider 
the claim taking account of that further evidence.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C on behalf of 
Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman