DRN-3258541
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him several 
packaged bank accounts over several years. 
RBS charged Mr H monthly fees for the packaged accounts and provided some potential 
benefits in return. 
Mr H thinks that RBS should refund him the fees he paid and add interest.
What happened
Mr H banked with RBS for quite a few years. RBS has looked at its records for him and 
has told us that:
in 1995, he opened a fee-free account,
in October 1998, it sold him a Royalties Gold account which replaced his fee-free 
account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in December 2004, it sold him a Royalties Premier account which replaced his 
Royalties Gold account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in December 2014, it switched him to a Select Platinum account for which it charged 
a monthly fee, 
in April 2019, Mr H closed the account. 
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt think that 
RBS had mis-sold him any of the packaged accounts. The adjudicator didnt recommend 
that RBS should pay him any compensation. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Although the Royalties Gold and Royalties Premier accounts were different from each other 
and RBS sold them to Mr H at different times, Mr H has complained about pretty much the 
same things for each of them. The two accounts also had several similarities, although the 
Royalties Premier account had more valuable benefits, and RBS seems to have sold them to 
Mr H in similar ways. So, I have considered Mr Hs complaint about them jointly. 
The situation with the Select Platinum account was quite a bit different, so I have considered 
it separately. 
The Royalties Gold and Royalties Premier accounts 
Both Mr H and RBS have told us that over the years he held these accounts he used an 
overdraft and took several loans and a mortgage. Mr H has told us that RBS said he could 
only have these credit products if he took out the packaged accounts. In recent 
correspondence with us, he said that he met several RBS staff who all took the opportunity 
to up sell products before allowing the advancement of lending facilities, so making the one 
conditional upon the other. He now thinks that RBS misled him and believes he could have 
had the credit without buying either of the packaged accounts. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mr Hs current belief that he could have had the credit 
without taking the packaged accounts is almost definitely correct. The type of account a 
person holds gives very little indication of his or her credit worthiness. RBS has agreed with 
this. It has said that its customers do not need a package bank account to obtain any form
of lending product. However, the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he remembers RBS telling 
him the opposite. 
Mr H has told us that RBS sold him the Royalties Gold and Royalties Premier accounts 
during face-to-face meetings in one of its branches. Obviously, I wasnt present at either of 
these meetings and I cant tell for sure what RBS said, or didnt say, to him. I accept he is 
doing his best to remember what happened, but I doubt that RBS misled him in the way he 
has described. This would have gone against its own commercial position and general 
banking practices at the times in question, which I think is unlikely.
However, at the relevant times, both the Royalties Gold and the Royalties Premier accounts 
provided potential savings on overdrafts and loans compared to RBS fee-free accounts, 
and the Royalties Premier account also offered potential discounts on mortgages. I think its 
highly likely that RBS told Mr H about these potential savings, rather than saying that he had 
to take a packaged account to get credit. But as this would have been true, it would have 
been a reasonable thing for it to say. Indeed, RBS has told us that Mr H saved over £1,100 
in reduced charges on overdrafts and loans. It has also pointed out that it had previously 
allowed Mr H an overdraft on a fee-free account. 
I accept that Mr H may well have paid more in fees than he saved in interest, but both 
packaged accounts provided other potential benefits, such as insurance for travel and home 
emergencies, which may also have been of use to him. 
Although, as I have just described, the crux of Mr Hs complaint is very specific, in fairness 
to him, I have checked to see if RBS failed in any other significant way which may have 
amounted to mis-selling. RBS, along with other banks, is allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. It 
can do so without giving personal advice, on an information-only (or non-advised) basis. 
Or, it can give personal advice and recommendations in an advised (or recommended) 
sale. Whichever approach RBS used for Mr H, I would have expected it to give him a 
choice and tell him about the accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly. And in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if he had a potential need for the 
benefits which the accounts could provide.
Mr H has told us that RBS advised him to buy both accounts, whereas RBS has said it sold 
them to him on an information-only basis. RBS usual procedures does not involve giving 
advice and I havent seen sufficiently compelling evidence for me to think it changed them 
for Mr H. So, I have considered this complaint as being about an information-only sale. 
In the early stages of this complaint, Mr H told us that RBS said he wasnt eligible for a 
fee-free account and so denied him a fair choice. However, before RBS sold Mr H the 
Royalties Gold account, he had held a fee-free account for several years. I dont think RBS 
told him he couldnt keep this account and it has continued to provide such accounts to its 
customers. So, I think its highly likely that RBS allowed Mr H the option to keep it. Similarly. 
I also think that in 2004 it allowed him the choice to keep his Royalties Gold account and not 
change to the Royalties Premier account, alongside the option to have a fee-free account. 
There is no dispute that RBS told Mr H about the fees for the accounts. And I think its highly 
likely that it also told him about their benefits. After all, it was trying to sell the packaged 
accounts to Mr H and it was in its own interest to tell him what he could get in return for his 
monthly fees. Indeed, I understand that Mr H made a claim on the travel insurance benefit, 
so RBS must have told him about it. 
Im not sure exactly why Mr H switched from the fee-free account to Royalties Gold and then 
to Royalties Premier but Im satisfied that RBS met its obligations to him on each occasion. I 
dont think it mis-sold either account to him. 
The Select Platinum account 
Mr H has not said a great deal about the Select Platinum account, but RBS did not sell it to 
him in the same way as the other two packaged accounts. It switched him as part of a 
commercial decision it made to change the range of current accounts it provided to its 
customers. 
During 2014, RBS withdrew the Royalties Premier account. It was allowed to do this, but to 
be fair to its customers I would have expected it to tell them what it was planning and give 
them reasonable choices. RBS has told us that it did this by letter. And I have seen an 
example of the type of letter it says it sent. 
The letter had the title  Were changing your Royalties Premier Account to a Select Platinum 
Account. It described the differences between the two accounts and gave some information 
about the benefits of the Select Platinum account and the fees. It gave customers options to 
take the Select Platinum account, close their account or move to another type of account, 
including some without a monthly fee. It said customers could discuss their options further in 
an RBS branch or find more information on its website or in leaflets it had sent with the letter.
.Im confident that RBS sent a letter like this to Mr H, so I think it met its obligations to him. I 
dont think RBS mis-sold the Select Platinum account to Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint that The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him several packaged bank accounts. I am not going to tell 
it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman