DRN-3289382
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with an unaffordable 
loan. He says he was struggling to repay the debts he already had.  
Background
L2G provided Mr S with a loan of £1,150.00 in July 2021. This loan had an APR of 253.7% 
and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £3,330.48 was due to be 
repaid in 24 instalments of £138.77.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan to Mr S as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G disagreed 
with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr S complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr S ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In practice this meant that L2G 
had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. And the information it gathered 
suggested that this loan was affordable. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But the credit check it carried out showed Mr S 
had a number of account that were close to their limit and a couple were even over. And this 
leads me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr S actual monthly expenditure. 
After all Mr S declared monthly disposable income didnt tally with someone with his credit 
file and his want or need to borrow on disadvantageous terms. To be clear its not the 24-
month term on its own that leads me to think L2G needed to do more, its the combination of 
this together with what Mr S credit file showed which persuades me it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate to have taken this course of action here.As I cant see that this L2G did take further steps to verify Mr S expenditure, I dont think 
that the checks it carried out before providing Mr S with his loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr S would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr S would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr S was 
borrowing from a number of different lenders to try and manage his existing commitments. 
And he was making token payments to at least one of his existing creditors. So I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown L2G that Mr S was likely to use this loan for these 
purposes, or to at least cover the hole this left in his finances, which meant he was unlikely 
to be able to repay it without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse 
consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr S was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.
Did Mr S lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr S paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made, to L2G (and any debt purchaser if the account was sold), 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,150.00 originally lent. If 
Mr S has already repaid more than £1,150.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr S;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains once all adjustments have been made, L2G should 
remove any adverse information it recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account (should it buy it back from any third-party debt purchaser it may 
have sold her debt to), and its the case that Mr S is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman