DRN-3326590
The complaint
Mr and Ms G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt upgrade their travel insurance 
policy to cover worldwide destinations and about its offer to refund premiums of the new 
policy they bought. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Ms G had a Europewide travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes, that was 
valid from 14 May 2019 to 13 May 2020. In October 2019 Mr G had a sudden medical 
condition which they declared to Great Lakes who charged an additional premium to cover 
the condition.
In February 2020 Ms G asked Great Lakes if they could upgrade their current policy to cover 
worldwide destinations for a planned cruise in March 2020. Great Lakes said it couldnt 
upgrade the existing policy due to Mr Gs ill health but it could cover his declared medical 
condition if he and Ms G took out a new worldwide policy.
Mr and Ms G ended the Europewide travel policy and on 21 February 2020 bought a new 
worldwide policy to cover any trips of up to 50 days duration. The policy started on 
21 February 2020 and ended on 20 February 2021. They paid £806.48 for the standard level 
of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered Mr Gs declared medical 
conditions. Mr and Ms G also paid an additional premium of £86.22 for cruise plus cover. 
The premium they paid for their travel insurance policy, including the additional cover option, 
included a discount of £198.24. Mr and Ms G paid a total of £873 for the policy including 
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT).
The March 2020 cruise was cancelled by the cruise providers due to Covid-19 and Mr and
Ms G received a full refund from the provider. On 8 June 2020 Ms G contacted Great Lakes
to cancel their travel insurance policy. Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Ms G a cash refund
as its policy terms and conditions said no refund would be issued outside the 14 day 'cooling
off' period. It offered the following options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15 month annual policy for the price of 
12 months;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK only annual multi-trip policy.
The total value of the credit voucher Mr and Ms G were offered was £483.97, which didnt 
include a pro rata refund of the optional cruise plus cover premium.
Mr and Ms G accepted the voucher and used it to purchase a 15 month policy to cover 
European travel only. Ms G says she spoke to Great Lakes who told her that if worldwide 
cover was required during this latest policy period it would upgrade the cover for an 
additional premium to be decided.
Mr and Ms G are unhappy that Great Lakes would upgrade the latest Europewide travel 
policy to worldwide cover but wouldnt upgrade their original Europewide travel policy in 
February 2020 for its remaining three months. If it had done so they could have avoided 
having to buy the new policy. They wanted Great Lakes to refund the premiums paid for the 
new policy in full as they consider the original policy could have been upgraded at a far lower 
cost.
Our investigator said a fair outcome would be that in addition to the original voucher 
Great Lakes should also give Mr and Ms G a voucher valued at the pro rata refund for the 
additional cruise plus cover purchased with the worldwide policy. He also recommended 
Great Lakes pay £150 compensation for Mr and Ms Gs distress and inconvenience caused 
by the conflicting information it gave them about being able to upgrade a policy from 
European to worldwide cover.
Great Lakes agreed to issue a voucher for the pro rata refund of the cruise plus cover, which 
it calculated to be £72.93. As to the upgrade issue, Great Lakes said its risk scoring and 
pricing changed with different policies which changed over time. But it accepted the stress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr and Ms G in having to change the policies and agreed to 
pay the £150 compensation.
Mr and Ms G didnt agree with our investigators recommendation as they wanted the £72.93 
refund in cash not a voucher. They said they may not want to travel abroad again so 
wouldnt need travel insurance. Also, they were so disappointed with Great Lakes refusal to 
extend their original policy they may not want to use its policy in future.
Before I made a decision I asked Great Lakes to recalculate the value of the original voucher 
as I didnt think its calculation of that voucher was fair. And I asked it for some more 
information about the new voucher it had offered. I referred to Great Lakes response in my 
provisional findings below.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to partly uphold this complaint. I said:
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel the policy

You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to mate a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Great Lakes has agreed to recalculate the refund for the worldwide policy by dividing the 
actual price paid for the policy, including the cruise cover plus, by the total cover length (in 
days) multiplied by days not on risk. That calculation gives a refund of £615.39. Mr and Ms G 
have already received and used a voucher for £483.97 so the balance is £131.42, which 
includes the £72.93 which was just for the cruise cover plus.Great Lakes has now offered to pay the balance of £131.42 in a voucher, plus the £150 
compensation for Mr and Ms Gs distress and inconvenience. I think thats a fair offer 
because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund of premium.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Ms Gs cancellation of the policy was significantly outside of the 
14 day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its 
discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic to be exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means 
I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Ms Gs contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think 
Great Lakes latest offer of a credit voucher for the policy premiums, including for the 
optional cruise plus cover, is fair and reasonable. And given the policy wasnt 
cancelled until 8 June 2020, I think its fair that the date of the cancellation of the 
policy is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case. Great Lakes would 
have been on-risk for the policy for 366 days if the policy hadnt been cancelled. The 
voucher represents the remaining unused 258 days of cover, after the policy was 
cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Ms G making a 
claim after that point.
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
Im satisfied this now leads to a fair outcome.
I understand why Mr and Ms G want a cash refund rather than a voucher. But in my 
view a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I say that because although Mr and Ms G say they may not travel abroad again 
Great Lakes has now told us that the voucher can be transferred to a third party (but 
not sold) and also can be used for a single trip or annual multi trip policy which would 
include holidays in the UK. The voucher will be valid for 36 months. So I dont think 
that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Mr and Ms G are also reluctant to insure with Great Lakes again as it wouldnt 
upgrade the original Europewide policy to worldwide cover. But I think Great Lakes 
has given a reasonable explanation of why it wouldnt upgrade that policy but could 
potentially upgrade Mr and Ms Gs latest policy they purchased with the voucher. An 
insurer can decide the risk it wants to insure and for what price. Great Lakes told us 
that while Mr Gs new medical condition meant he exceeded the risk it wanted to 
insure under the original policy it was able to insure that risk under a new policy but 
with a larger premium. And as Ms G says Great Lakes told her it may be able to 
upgrade the existing policy it appears that its decision about what risks it wants to 
cover under which policy has developed over time. Thats a business decision for 
Great Lakes to make and I couldnt have fairly required it to offer Mr G upgraded 
cover under the original policy.
Great Lakes accepts Mr and Ms G had stress and inconvenience in having to cancel 
their original policy and take out the new worldwide policy. Its offered £150 
compensation in recognition of that, which I think is a reasonable offer.Having considered everything, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay Mr and Ms G a cash refund 
of their premiums. Im satisfied its current offer of a pro-rata credit voucher for £131.42 and 
£150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr and Ms G said they still thought Great Lakes was unfair not to allow them to upgrade 
their original policy to worldwide cover. They believed it was the same cover on both policies 
as Mr Gs health conditions hadnt changed since the previous amendment, just much more 
expensive. But they said they appreciated Great Lakes could make a business decision it 
thought appropriate. Mr and Ms G were also still unhappy they had to accept a voucher 
rather than a cash refund but said they reluctantly accept the voucher together with £150 
compensation. They asked for written confirmation from Great Lakes that the voucher will be 
valid for 36 months and they will be able to transfer it to someone else if they chose to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has accepted my provisional decision. Ive noted Mr and Ms Gs comments and 
that ultimately they accept my provisional decision. It might help if I explain that I dont think 
the cover Great Lakes offered under the European policy and worldwide policy was the 
same in that although it was insuring Mr Gs same health conditions it was carrying different 
risks under each policy. For example, with the worldwide cover it was insuring the risk of 
having to cover medical treatment that in countries covered by a worldwide policy would 
potentially be much more expensive than treatment in Europe. As Ive said, and as Mr and 
Ms G accept, its for Great Lakes to decide the risks it wants to insure under a policy and for 
what price.
Great Lakes has confirmed to us that the voucher will be valid for 36 months and that Mr and 
Ms G will be able to transfer it to someone else but I see no reason why Great Lakes 
shouldnt put that in writing direct to Mr and Ms G, as they request. Ive asked our 
investigator to contact Great Lakes about that.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision and this decision I partly uphold this 
complaint. Im satisfied that Great Lakes current offer of a pro-rata credit voucher for 
£131.42 and £150 compensation for Mr and Ms Gs distress and inconvenience is fair.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Mr and Ms G a credit voucher for £131.42 and £150 compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Ms G a 
credit voucher for £131.42 and £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman