DRN-3815590
The complaint
Mr K complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent irresponsibly when it approved his loan 
application.
What happened
Mr K applied for a loan with L2G in August 2021. L2G approved the application and gave Mr 
K a loan of £500. The total amount repayable was £1850.04 by instalments of £102.78 per 
month.
Mr K complained that L2G lent to him irresponsibly. L2G didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think the decision to lend was fair because 
she thought there were signs that Mr K was in financial difficulty prior to applying for the 
loan.
L2G didnt agree. It said that all of M r Ks credit commitments were up to date when he 
applied for the loan and there was only one account in arrears. L2G also said that all of Mr 
Ks credit cards were within limit and it didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the 
loan was unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach inn mind in considering whats fair and reasonable 
here.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say L2G had to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr K could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors including the 
amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of credit and 
the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when considering whats reasonable and proportionate.
L2G says it looked at the information Mr K provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure. Mr K stated that he had a monthly income of £2300. L2G says it checked this 
and found that Mr Ks income was £1368. L2G looked at Mr Ks credit file and calculated his 
monthly expenditure at around £1035.
L2G also carried out a credit check. The check showed that Mr K had a credit card account, 
a loan, and two other consumer credit commitments. The history of the loan account showed 
that Mr K had been in arrears for several months. The credit card had a credit limit of £500 
and a balance of £416. In addition, Mr K had a current account with an overdraft facility, of 
which £496 had been utilised.
Based on what Ive seen, I think L2G shouldve carried out further checks to find out more 
about Mr Ks financial circumstances to check that he could afford the loan. This is because I 
think the fact that another loan account held by Mr K had been in arrears for several months 
indicated that he was unlikely to be able to afford to repay further borrowing.
Because I dont think the checks carried out by L2G were reasonable and proportionate, Ive 
gone on to consider what a reasonable and proportionate check wouldve shown. Ive 
already said that Mr K had another loan which had been in arrears for several months. Given 
that Mr K had experienced difficulties repaying existing borrowing, I think this showed that he 
was likely to experience difficulties in repaying any further borrowing. Mr K hasnt provided 
any bank statements from the time of the application, but from the credit check I can see that 
Mr K was utilising his overdraft facility, and this indicates that he didnt have sufficient 
income to afford his existing borrowing.
Even on L2Gs own calculations, Mr Ks monthly income of £1368 and expenditure of £1035 
leaves insufficient disposable income for any further borrowing to be sustainably affordable. 
Taking into account the loan repayments of £102, L2G havent allowed for a buffer to meet 
other or unexpected expenses.
Ive taken into account that having been approved for the loan, Mr K was unable to meet any 
of the contractual repayments.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think the checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, and I dont think the decision to lend was fair. The information shows that Mr 
K was already experiencing financial difficulties before he applied for the loan.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that L2G lent irresponsibly to Mr K.
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, L2G must:
1.Refund all interest and charges Mr K has paid to date
2.If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by the amount at 
(1) above
3.If after (2) above a capital balance remains outstanding, L2G should ensure that this isnt 
subject to any historic or future interest or charges.
If, after (2) above a positive balance exists, this should be given back to Mr K together with 
8% simple interest.
4.L2G should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in connection 
with the loan
HMRC may require L2G to take off tax from the interest at (3). If it does, L2G must give Mr K 
a statement showing how much was taken off, if he askes for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman