DRN-2503113
The complaint
Mr F complains that increases in the premium ReAssure Limited say he must pay for a 
critical illness insurance policy are too big. 
What happened
Mr Fs policy, which began in 1998, increases how much it will pay out for a claim  the sum 
assured  each year, by 5%. The amount Mr F pays for the policy  the premium  then also 
goes up, often by around 6 to 8%.
Starting in 2008, the policy has also been reviewed every five years. At each review, the 
premium has gone up. These increases tend to be much more than the increase in a year 
where there isnt a review  around 40%, though the premium more than doubled in 2008.
Mr F complained in 2020. He worked out the percentage increase in his premiums each 
year, and noted these were more than the annual 5% increase to the sum assured. He felt 
ReAssure were unfairly increasing the premiums to try to force him to cancel the policy. 
In response, ReAssure explained that the increases were based on how much more it would 
cost to provide the cover. They said this looked at more than just the increase to the sum 
assured. They then checked the figures again, and said they were correct. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this explanation, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
focussed on the terms of the policy. He found ReAssure were acting within the terms to 
review the policy and increase the premiums the way they had. 
Mr F didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me for a final review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mr Fs concern at the rising cost of his policy, I find that ReAssure 
arent making any mistakes. Ill explain below why I find theyre fairly applying their terms to 
Mr Fs policy.
My starting point for considering ReAssures service is to look at the terms and conditions of 
the policy. These set out what ReAssure and Mr F agreed to, when Mr F chose to have his 
policy with them. For a reasonable service, Id generally expect ReAssure to do things how 
their terms said they would.  
ReAssure are reviewing the policy every five years  and did so in 2008, 2013, and 2018. 
Thats what they said they would do, in term F1 of the policy. That term also explained that 
if they found the cost to provide cover to Mr F wasnt met by the premiums he was paying, 
theyd give him the choice to increase the premium, or lower the level of cover. 
So the premium increases in the years Ive listed are in line with what the policy terms said 
ReAssure would do. I find thats reasonable. 
ReAssure are also increasing the premiums annually, to cover the annual 5% increase in the 
sum assured. Thats also something they said theyd do, in term E2(b) of the policy. The 
wording says the increase would be either the amount it cost to pay for the increased cover, 
or 5%, matching the increase in the percentage increase of the sum assured. ReAssures 
terms say theyd choose whichever cost the most. 
In all the increases Mr F listed with his complaint, it looks like the cost of increasing the cover 
was more than a 5% increase in the premium. Thats then what ReAssure chose to do. As 
theyre doing what the policy said they would, I find it was reasonable for them to do it. 
In response to our investigators discussion of the policy terms, Mr F said he wasnt made 
aware of these when he took out his policy. He says he was told hed just be paying a 5% 
increase in his premiums, to cover the 5% increase in the sum assured. But hes not 
suggested that he didnt have a copy of the policy document. And the terms are explained 
clearly in that. And I dont have any evidence of ReAssure ever saying or doing anything 
other than whats in those terms. 
So while I appreciate Mr F feels they should only increase the premium by 5% each year, I 
dont agree that would be fair, given I cant see ReAssure ever said that they would do that. 
I understand Mr Fs concerns about his policy though. In the 22 years hes had it, his 
monthly premium has risen from £12.50 to £180.46. Its getting more expensive, but 
ReAssures response to this complaint accurately explained why that is  the cost of 
providing the cover has gone up. 
In part, this may be due to Mr F getting older, and a claim being statistically more likely. And 
it may reflect the performance of the investment part of the policy, which is intended to help 
cover some of the increasing cost as Mr F gets older. Ive not seen anything though that 
says the rising cost is due to any mistakes by ReAssure. So Im not going to direct them to 
change the premiums theyre seeking to charge Mr F.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman