DRN-1921778
The complaint
Mr D has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc rejected his claim for a refund for 
amounts paid to a third party. He believes these should have been refunded under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Mr D contacted NatWest to raise a claim regarding sums totalling £10,082.87, paid from his 
account to a third party between April 2018 and March 2010. These were paid by direct 
debit. He feels NatWest should refund him, but it has declined to do so, as it considered this 
to be a dispute between Mr D and the third party. Mr D feels he should be refunded, as he 
wasnt given sufficient notice by the third party that the sums would be taken.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. In summary, he considered that Mr 
D would have received bank statements, showing the debits going out for a period of nearly 
two years. So hed have expected him to raise it with the third party if he hadnt agreed to 
them. He also noted that a third party can only set up a direct debit and then request funds, if 
the consumer has agreed to that.
He also looked at Mr Ds concern about being pre-notified of these direct debits, ten days in 
advance. Hes only been provided with one invoice, but understands it to be typical of each 
monthly one. It stated that Mr D had a rolling contract, month on month. It also clearly 
showed that payment regarding this would be taken monthly, and in 10 days time from each 
invoice. He considered that this was sufficient notice from the third party, but if he was 
unhappy with it, he should contact the third party directly.
Our investigator also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ds bank account. He noted 
the relevant section states: If an error is made in a Direct Debit, youll be entitled to a refund 
from the payee or from us. But he couldnt see that any error had been made, as he was 
satisfied the payments were genuine. 
For these reasons, he didnt consider that NatWest should refund the sums.
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he felt the third party hadnt given sufficient notice of the sums 
being taken.
His complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr D, 
but Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mr D set up a direct debit with the third party. And payments were taken over a 
number of years. Im satisfied hed reasonably have known about these. They amount to a 
significant sum and Mr D would have been able to see them on his bank statements. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen, he didnt raise any concerns until recently. His concern is that the 
third party must give 10 days notice before each sum is taken.
The invoice that Ive seen does give this notice. 
My role is to take into account the law and any relevant guidance, but ultimately decide what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable. Here, Im not aware of any dispute about whether or not 
the payments were owed, or the service received. Rather, the complaint relates to notice 
periods.
Although Ive only seen one invoice, I can see it does say payments will be taken each time 
after 10 days. I dont know whether Mr D received an invoice each time. Technically, he 
should have done. But Im satisfied he knew the money was going out, and this continued for 
several years. NatWest was acting under a genuine direct debit instruction, for services 
received. If Mr D disagreed with the debits, Id have expected him to raise this earlier.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require NatWest to refund any sums. Ive 
taken into account Mr Ds concerns regarding the notice period, but Im not satisfied they are 
sufficient to mean NatWest should, on a fair and reasonable basis, refund the debits.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman