DRN-4298498
The complaint
Mr B complains that QIC Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy with QIC after noticing 
damage to one of his outbuildings, following a storm.
QIC arranged for a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor concluded that the shed 
was in a very poor state of repair and had reached the end of its lifespan. After Mr B phoned 
QIC for an update, it told him it had declined his claim.
Mr B appealed against QICs decision and later raised a complaint. However, QIC 
maintained its position. So, Mr B asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs claim should be upheld. She thought it was fair for QIC to 
rely on the wear and tear exclusion in its policy to decline the claim.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said his outbuilding was an asbestos hut 
and provided a link to some information about these. The asbestos sheets forming the walls 
and roof of the hut could not be independently removed or replaced without dismantling 
large areas of the structure. He said he wouldnt have been able to replace the sheets as 
asbestos has been banned for many years and disputed that theyd needed replacing prior 
to the storm. The hut was structurally sound before the storm because of repairs hed carried 
out. He could not have predicted the storm damage and any further preventative measures 
that he could have taken prior to the storm.
Mr B also commented that the surveyor had arranged to meet him at the property but was 
early and departed before his arrival. This meant Mr B hadnt had the opportunity to discuss 
the structure of the hut, along with the nature of his previous repairs and the damage that 
occurred. 
As Mr B disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mr B has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. I wish to reassure Mr B Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
Mr B says the damage to his outbuilding was caused by a storm that occurred in February 
2020. He would like QIC to accept liability and pay for the costs of providing him with a new 
shed of comparable size, including the removal and disposal of the existing building. 
Storm is one of the insured causes of loss, destruction or damage listed as being covered 
by the policy. However, QIC says the damage was due to the age of the shed and not as a 
direct result of an insured peril (i.e. the storm). It says the adverse weather had merely 
highlighted further issues that already existed due to the poor condition of the roof. 
The surveyors report says:
The external damage is to the shed. This is an old barn style shed and has a curved 
corrugated sheet roof. This is almost certainly made with asbestos and therefore testing is 
required before work begins. The roof is in a very poor pre-loss condition and has reached 
the end of its life span. The sheets have a vast amount of previous cracks in them and we 
can see there has been a lot of previous repairs done in the past. Therefore we would 
consider the damage is due to the age of the shed and not a direct result of an insured peril.
QIC has provided photographs of the outbuilding, which support the surveyors comments. I 
can see a number of cracks, some of which have been patched up with tape, as well as 
holes in the roof sheets. QIC has commented that such measures would not have been 
necessary if the areas in question were in an appropriate state of repair. 
I appreciate Mr B is of the opinion that the repairs hed carried out prior to the storm were 
adequate and the structural integrity of the outbuilding was sound. However, Ive no reason 
to doubt the expert opinion of QICs surveyor who concluded that the outbuilding had 
reached the end of its lifespan. The photographs support what hes noted about the roof 
being in a poor pre-loss condition.
The terms and conditions of the policy exclude cover for damage caused by wear and tear, 
gradual deterioration, rust or oxidation.
Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for QIC to have concluded that the 
damage to the outbuilding wasnt a direct result of the storm. Rather, it appears to have 
highlighted an existing problem with the condition of the roof. So, I think it was fair for QIC to 
decline Mr Bs claim.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B, but I think QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. So, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman