DRN-3494172
The complaint
Mrs M, on behalf of M, says American Express Services Europe Limited unfairly cancelled 
her business gold charge card when she was in arrears, meaning she lost all her reward 
points.  
What happened
Mrs M rang Amex on 16 October 2020 after as it had chased her for an overdue payment. 
She explained she was waiting for a refund, due in the next few days, after a holiday was 
cancelled due to COVID. She said she hadnt made the payment as her account would then 
be in credit, and she was furloughed so didnt want this. But the refund did not arrive in the 
next few days and she let her account fall further into arrears, and did not contact Amex 
again whilst waiting for the refund. So Amex closed and defaulted her account after three 
missed payments, sending the required warnings and notices in advance. It chased payment 
by text, email and letter. The refund did not arrive until December 2020, after the card was 
cancelled and only then did Mrs M contact Amex. She wanted her card re-instating as this all 
meant Mrs M had forfeited her points balance. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said Mrs M ought to have kept her 
account up-to-date and could have later requested the return of any credit balance if one 
was created. The terms and conditions make clear that if an account is closed all points that 
have been earned, but not yet redeemed, will be forfeited. So Amex had done nothing 
wrong.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said it is unfair she should 
lose all the points that she has accumulated over the years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Amex has evidenced that it sent Mrs M multiple payment reminders and, after her first call 
on 16 October 2020, she did not respond. It also sent the required default notice and 
information about what to do if she was struggling financially and couldnt make her 
repayments. 
As it heard nothing from Mrs M, I think it was fair that closed and defaulted the account. As 
the terms of the membership rewards programme say If we cancel or end your Card 
Account in accordance with the Card Account agreement, you will lose the Points that you 
have earned but not yet redeemed it follows Mrs M lost her points.
So I find Amex has not made an error or acted unfairly by removing Mrs Ms points.
It follows I am not instructing Amex to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman