DRN-3553535
The complaint
Mr A complains about the amount Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) paid in
settlement of his claim after his car was written off, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted Haven in November 2021 to make a claim as he had been involved in a car
accident. Initially the third-party driver was thought to be at fault. Mr A was asked to provide
photos so Haven could assess the damage. Two days later he was told the car was a total
loss.
Mr A says he expected a courtesy car to be supplied. But Haven told him his policy didnt
provide for this.
Haven told Mr A the third-party driver was disputing liability. And around a week after the
accident happened Mr A admitted he was at fault. Subsequently Haven offered Mr A a
settlement payment for £2,000. After his excess charge this came to £1,100. Mr A thought
his car was worth much more than this and so raised a complaint.
Haven says Mr As policy has a limit of coverage as shown in his policy schedule for £2,000.
It maintains this is the maximum sum payable. But as a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr A
an increased payment of £2,200. Mr A still felt this was unfair and says he paid
approximately £900 in travel costs until he bought a car. He says this was around 45 days
after the accident. Because he remained unhappy Mr A referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. She listened to a call recording from June 2021 when
Mr A had changed the car on his policy. She didnt think he had agreed the car was worth
£2,000 during this call. Because the term relied upon by Haven was so significant in limiting
the payment Mr A would receive, she thought this shouldve been explained very clearly to
him. But she didnt think it had been in the call or in the policy terms and documentation
provided by Haven.
Based on an average value taken from the industry trade guides our investigator thought a
fair market value for Mr As car was £5,077. She thought it fair that Haven pay this amount to
Mr A. She says it was also fair that Haven should be able to deduct an amount to reflect the
premium assuming the correct value of the car had been recorded by its agent.
Mr A accepted our investigators findings. Haven didnt respond. So, it has been passed to
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether Haven treated Mr A fairly when limiting its settlement
payment to the insured vehicle value set out in the policy schedule.
In its response to Mr As complaint Haven says his policy has an indemnity limit and refers to
the following excerpts from its policy terms:
Section A: Definitions: Limit(s) of Coverage: The value shown in the Schedule
B2 LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO YOUR VEHICLE OTHER THAN BY FIRE OR THEFT
(COMPREHENSIVE POLICIES ONLY)
What is covered?: We will cover You in respect of loss of or damage to Your Car which
occurs during the Period of Insurance caused by accidental or malicious means up to the
Limit of Coverage specified in the Schedule and subject to the applicable Excess(es).
Provisions applicable to B1 and B2:
7. If We consider Your Car is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident or incident
covered by this insurance, subject to clause 9 below We will provide the owner of Your Car
with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage after deducting the Excess.
You should be aware that We are entitled to provide settlement up to the Limit of Coverage
after deducting the applicable Excess(es) in full and final settlement of Your claim for
damage to Your Car, even if that value is under-stated. Our obligation to repair Your Car
shall be limited to the cost calculated by applying the proportion that the value of the repair
service that We are to provide bears to the Market Value of Your Car up to the Limit of
Coverage less the applicable Excess(es).
The policy schedule says, Insured Vehicle(s): Value: £2,000.
Generally, we dont consider it fair for an insurer to limit a settlement payment to an amount
less than the market value of the vehicle. Haven says the policy limits the cover to the value
set out in the schedule. But for Haven to fairly rely on its limit of coverage term, I need to
be satisfied that it clearly highlighted the significance of this policy term, and its ramifications,
to Mr A.
To understand whether this was made clear to Mr A over the phone Ive listened to the call
in June 2021 when he called Haven to change the car he had insured on his policy.
Havens agent confirms the car registration to Mr A near to the start of the call. She then
begins to say that the value of the car is £2,000. But Mr A interrupts her to correct the
registration details. The car value isnt mentioned again. Based on this I dont think Mr A
heard what Havens agent said. I certainly dont think it was made clear to him that this is the
maximum amount it would pay out in the event of him making a claim. And I dont think its
clearly been shown that Mr A told Haven his car was worth £2,000.
Having considered the information provided, Im not satisfied that Haven made Mr A aware
of the significance of this policy term. I dont think he was alerted that a settlement payment
would be limited to the value declared in the schedule. Or that this could be to his detriment,
which it has shown to be here. The policy terms stated above refer to a limit of coverage. But
I dont think sufficient attention is drawn to this considering the numerous other terms.
Because of this I dont think it would be fair for Haven to base a settlement payment on the
insured value set out in the schedule, which is less than the market value of Mr As car.
We think a fair approach to establish the market value of a vehicle is by using the industrytrade guides. The three guides I have seen for Mr As model of car and mileage gave
valuations of £4,730, £5,153, and £5,350. This provides an average valuation figure of
£5,077 at the time of the loss.
In the circumstances described I think its fair that Haven bases its settlement payment on
this figure.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr As premium if Haven had used the correct value at the
time he changed his car. In the circumstances, if the premium wouldve been higher, I think
its fair that the business deducts an amount to reflect the additional premium.
Courtesy car
Mr A says he expected a courtesy car to be provided under his policy. I have read his policy
terms to understand what is expected here. The terms under, Section B Loss of or damage
to Your car: What is not covered say:
The cost of alternative transport (including hire car costs) or compensation for You being
unable to use Your Car or any consequential losses (including loss of profits or hire charges)
incurred by You or anyone insured under this policy.
I acknowledge Mr As view that he thought this is a service that should be provided under his
policy. But I cant see that he is entitled to a courtesy car or alternative transport under his
policy terms.
That said I dont think Haven treated Mr A fairly in limiting its settlement payment to £2,200.
Mr A says he did buy another car, but he was without one for around 45 days. The amount
Haven offered was significantly below what it would cost to replace Mr As car and its
reasonable to accept this caused him further hassle and difficulties when trying to find a
suitable replacement. To acknowledge this, and for the impact Haven had on Mr A, I think
its fair that it pays him £200 compensation.
In summary, I dont think Haven treated Mr A fairly in offering a settlement based on the
insured value set out in the policy schedule. I think the valuation for £5,077 based on the
industry trade guides is fair, and this should now be paid to Mr A excluding the policy excess
and any amount already paid, plus 8% simple interest.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should:
provide a settlement payment for £5,077 in total, to include 8% simple interest on any
unpaid part of this from the date of the loss until the time this is paid; and
(*If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.)
pay Mr A £200 compensation for the hassle and inconvenience it caused him.:
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Haven didnt respond with any further comment or information. 
Mr A responded to say he accepts the provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should:
provide a settlement payment for £5,077 in total, to include 8% simple interest on any
unpaid part of this from the date of the loss until the time this is paid; and
(*If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.)
pay Mr A £200 compensation for the hassle and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman