DRN-3289643
The complaint
Mr D complains about a credit search made by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr D complained to Lloyds after he noticed two searches on his credit record made by the 
bank. One Mr D was aware of, the other he said was an error.  
Lloyds upheld the complaint and offered to pay Mr D £100 compensation. It said it could only 
find one record of an account application made, so the other search shouldnt have been 
made. Lloyds agreed to send a notice of correction to the credit reference agencies to have 
the search removed.
Mr D says he waited the eight weeks Lloyds told him it may take to correct his credit record, 
but the search was still there. So, Mr D brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Lloyds had done enough. After 
several emails between our investigator, Mr D, Lloyds and the credit reference agency, it 
was established that Lloyds had sent the notice of correction, but the credit reference 
agency hadnt acted on it. Our investigator sent confirmation of this to Mr D, but Mr D 
remained unhappy that he was initially ignored by Lloyds and after eight weeks the search 
hadnt been corrected. 
As D didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute by either party that Lloyds made an error when they logged an incorrect 
search on Mr Ds credit file. So, I dont find I need to investigate this point or make a finding 
on it. What I do need to decide is whether Lloyds dealt with the mistake fairly, when it was 
made aware of it, and whether Lloyds have compensated Mr D in line with what our service 
would expect. 
Lloyds have sent us confirmation that on or around the 24 May 2021 the correction was sent 
to the credit reference agencies.  We know this was received by the credit reference agency 
as they have now admitted they didnt act on it. So, as far as Lloyds were concerned, it had 
done enough at this point - and I agree.  
Although Lloyds advised Mr D it can take up to eight weeks for the correction to reflect on his 
credit file, it may well have been dealt with sooner if the credit agency had acted on the 
instruction. So, its impossible at this point to know how long it wouldve taken to correct and 
its not something I find Lloyds can be held responsible for. This is a point that Mr D can 
raise with the agency and it may be able to tell him what date the instruction shouldve been 
processed. It will then be up to Mr D to decide if he thinks this was reasonable and if not he 
can log a complaint with the agency. 
Mr D has said that he was ignored after the complaint was responded to and the eight weeks 
had elapsed, but Ive not seen any evidence of this. Ive also not seen a complaint logged 
with Lloyds regarding this point. So, its not something Ive investigated as part of this 
complaint. Having said that, I can see that a complaint was logged with our service around 
eight weeks after the FRL was sent. This may be why Mr D didnt get a response directly 
from Lloyds. 
In summary, its clear Lloyds did make a mistake when the credit search was recorded, but it 
has compensated Mr D fairly for the trouble and upset this caused. It also sent a notice of 
correction in a timely manner. Had it not been for the error at the credit reference agency, I 
have no doubts that the issue wouldve been resolved sooner, and Mr D wouldve had no 
need to raise a complaint with our service.  
The delays and subsequent trouble caused to Mr D were down to an organisation not party 
to this complaint. This is something Mr D will now need to take up with the credit reference 
agency.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman