The complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In July 2004 Ms H took out a credit card with HSBC. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy to protect her repayments. 
Ms H has now complained to HSBC that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree that was 
the case. HSBC also considered if any excess commissions and profit share, which was part 
of the premiums, should be refunded but said no refund for excess commission was due in 
the circumstances of this account.
As HSBC refused to uphold her complaint Mrs H brought her concerns to this service. Ms H 
is represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms H disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H has complained she was mis-sold the PPI as she says she wasnt made aware it was 
optional, she was unaware it had been added to her account and she wasnt provided with 
information about it. Ms H says she would not have taken out the PPI if she had known she 
had a choice. 
Ms H has told us she applied for her credit card by post. HSBC has been unable to provide a 
copy of the actual application form Ms H completed and sent back. It agrees with Ms H that 
the credit card account was most likely applied for in the post.
I have seen template documents of what Ms H would have completed when making her 
application at the time. On the credit card application form is a section for the PPI. In this 
section Ms H would have indicated to say she wanted the PPI and signed for it separately. 
I think the way the application form was set out did indicate to Ms H she had a choice 
whether or not to take out the PPI. This application took place over 15 years ago and 
memories can fade so Ms H may not fully recall what she actually completed at the time.
DRN-1732253So, I think Ms H knew she had a choice when completing the form and she chose to take out 
the insurance cover which was indicated as providing help with her repayments if necessary. 
At the time she met all the eligibility criteria, such as age and being in employment, so there 
was no issue with her having the policy on that basis.
I accept full information about the costs, benefits and the terms and conditions may not have 
been totally clear when Ms H agreed to take out the PPI. So, I need to consider if I think she 
would still have chosen to take out the PPI at the time if she had known all the details.
The cost of the cover was 79p for every £100 of the balance on the account. The benefits 
included repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months in 
any one claim. So the cost was reasonable when taking account of the benefits that could be 
paid for a successful claim. And I have seen nothing to indicate the policy wasnt affordable. 
At the time of completing the application form Ms H may not have been made fully aware of 
all of the restrictions that applied to the PPI. But Ive not seen anything to suggest she would 
have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover as a result of those 
restrictions. So knowing about them would not have affected Ms Hs decision. 
Ms H has told us she would have received no employment benefits if off sick and she had no 
savings, so the policy would have provided a useful benefit to Ms H if she had needed to 
claim.
I note in response to our adjudicators recommendation Ms H indicates that at the time she 
was told she had to have the PPI as a back up and wasnt told she could get cover 
elsewhere. She also provided a copy of a document, but that related to a loan Ms H applied 
for, not the credit card account. Ms H may have had PPI with other products but in this 
decision I am only considering the PPI sold associated with her credit card.  
As Ms H submitted her credit card application in the post, she would have completed the 
form herself and read the information that was provided in the accompanying leaflet, so 
would not have discussed the credit card PPI at the time.  
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Ms H chose to take out the insurance 
and it would have provided a useful benefit if she had needed to claim. It follows that I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by HSBC. However, the rules and guidance put in 
place by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this only affect credit taken out after 
6 April 2007 or if taken out before this date, then still running on 6 April 2008. 
It appears Ms Hs credit card is not caught by these dates therefore these rules do not apply, 
and no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by HSBC UK Bank Plc to Ms H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.Chris Fraser
Ombudsman