DRN-3600216
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), unfairly turned down his 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr L is represented by a professional 
representative (PR).
What happened
In 2013 Mr L and his wife were offered a free break in the UK and during that were sold a 
trial membership of a timeshare at a cost of £1,495 from a company I will call H. At a 
subsequent holiday they agreed to purchase membership at a cost of £7,950 and this was 
partly funded by Mr Ls NatWest credit card. The credit card account is in Mr Ls name and 
so he is the complainant and for the purposes of this decision I will refer to him as the sole 
owner. 
PR sought to end the agreement with H and then made a claim under the CCA to NatWest. 
PR said the timeshare had been misrepresented and Mr L had been induced into making the 
purchase on false promises. 
It rejected the claim as it believed the required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement 
was not in place as payment had been made to a third party. It also said there was 
insufficient evidence of misrepresentation.
PR brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld.  She concluded the third party was acting as a payment 
processor and so there was a DCS agreement. However she didnt think the product had 
been misrepresented. She said it didnt offer access all year and holiday booking would be 
subject to availability.  Nor did she think there had been an unfair relationship as set out in 
s.140A CCA.
PR didnt agree and said Mr L had been subjected to high pressure selling and H had broken 
a number of the regulations set out in the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010, SI 2010/2960. It also argued that the product was 
sold illegally as not all the relevant information had been provided. PR supplied email 
exchanges between Mr L and H which showed the issues he had encountered in booking 
holidays.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr L) under a DCS agreement has a claim of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that relates to a transaction 
financed by the agreement, the creditor (NatWest) is equally and concurrently liable for that 
claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the creditor should they choose to.
In this case it has been disputed as to whether the required agreement is in place as 
NatWest has suggested the payment was made to another company. My understanding is 
that the company receiving the payment was acting as a payment processor and it provided 
no services to Mr L. I believe that means s. 75 has effect, but I make no finding on that point 
since it is not material to my decision.
A claim for misrepresentation against H would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr L made like claims against NatWest under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, NatWest may adopt any defence that 
would have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr L had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claim. This he has done.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR says that Mr L was pressurised into making the purchase. It was his second purchase 
and I presume he had some idea of what was being offered by H and of its sales processes. I have noted the report of what was said and the manuscript notes which I have presumed 
were made at the time of the sale. However, I have not seen the full documentation including 
the agreement and so it is difficult to identify what was offered by H and whether there was 
misrepresentation.
As our investigator has said the sales representatives would have put the best gloss on the 
product and emphasised the benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean that 
this amounted to misrepresentation. For example I note one manuscript note suggests Mr L 
would not be charged a service fee until 2016. PR has not suggested H broke this element 
of the agreement.
Quite simply, I cannot say that NatWest was given clear evidence of misrepresentation and I 
cannot conclude it was wrong to reject the claim.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr L and NatWest 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years. I have not been told if the 
payment on the credit card account has been repaid or part of it is still outstanding. 
However, I have presumed it was for the purposes of this decision.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr L could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against NatWest anyway.
Mr Ls alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that NatWest assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that NatWest owed Mr L a duty of care to ensure that H complied with 
the 2010 Regulations. And PR says that NatWest breached that duty by failing to carry out  
before granting Mr L credit and paying H  the due diligence necessary to ensure that the 
product purchased by Mr L wasnt sold by H in breach of the 2010 Regulations. It should be 
noted that the purchase was made, in part, by credit card and NatWest had no oversight of 
what Mr L chose to spend his money on.
In addition, English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in 
every situation and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether 
a duty of care is owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.
2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because 
such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these tests or 
relevant authorities that the lender owed the debtor and the purchaser of a timeshare a duty 
of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by C in breach of a 
relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
In summary I cannot see why any of Mr Ls claims were likely to have succeeded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman