DRN-3347960
The complaint
Ms M complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans unfairly 
recorded adverse information on her credit file, regarding a loan she had with it, 
including registering a default.
What happened
In May 2017, Ms M entered into a two-year fixed sum loan agreement with Likely 
Loans. The payments were for around £380 per month and would be taken from Ms 
Ms bank account, via a direct debit, at the end of each month starting in June 2017.
In February 2018, Ms M missed a payment and she contacted Likely Loans to explain 
that she was waiting for some funds to arrive. She said she hoped to make a double 
payment in April and possibly even clear the entire loan. Likely Loans agreed to 
supress the payment that was due in March and set the direct debit to be taken in April 
instead. The direct debit amount in April would be for that months payment plus the 
accrued arrears.
Unfortunately, Ms Ms circumstances didnt improve, and she was unable to clear the 
full balance of the loan. In April 2018 Ms M called Likely Loans and explained she 
wouldnt be able to make the direct debit payment at the end of the month as planned. 
Likely Loans explained that Ms M needed to make some sort of payment off the loan 
and that, as she wasnt keeping to the payment term of the loan, this would have an 
impact on her credit file. A six-month payment plan of £50 per month was agreed to 
start from the end of May 2018.
Likely Loans sent Ms M a letter setting out that it was agreed that from May until October 
2018 she would pay £50 per month. The letter informed Ms M that she should make 
contact 14 days before the final payment under the arrangement was due in order for 
Likely Loans to assess her circumstances. The letter also said that If your arrangement 
fails and we can't contact you to find out why, we may need to return to collection 
activities as per the terms and conditions of our agreement.
Before the last payment was taken in October 2018 from Ms M a new payment 
arrangement was agreed again for six months at £50 per month. Thereafter, Ms M 
made new arrangements to pay at the same rate from February 2019, and then again 
from August 2019 and also from January 2020. The arrangement made in January 
2020 was to run from the end February 2020 to the end of July 2020. For each new 
payment arrangement, Likely Loans sent Ms M a letter confirming the amount, the 
period and that contact should be made 14 days before the last payment under the 
arrangement had been made. Likely Loans was also sending Ms M a notice of sums in 
arrears every six months.
In August 2020, a default notice was sent to Ms M as she hadnt made contact to renew 
the payment arrangement that had ceased in July 2020. Ms M then contacted Likely 
Loans and a new payment arrangement, again at £50 per month, was set up.
Ms M says she was then alerted, when checking her credit score, that Likely Loans 
was going to record a change to her credit file by noting this account was six months in 
arrears. Ms M called Likely Loans and queried this information. The agent informed 
her that, as long as she didnt miss any payments under the arranged payment plan, 
the default wouldnt be activated.
In September 2020, Ms M called Likely Loans again as she said her credit file had 
recorded this account as being six months in arrears. The agent explained to Ms M that, 
as she wasnt making the full payments then this was usually recorded as missed 
payments or as being in arrears, depending on the way an individual credit reference 
agency recorded the information from the credit provider. The agent also explained to 
Ms M that it was important for her to make contact around the time the payment 
arrangement was coming to end, as failure to do so may mean the default would be 
registered if Likely Loans wasnt able to make contact with her for any reason. They 
informed Ms M that, if there wasnt contact with her when this payment arrangement 
ended, then the default could be recorded on her credit file.
The agreed payment arrangement ended on the last day of January 2021. Likely Loans 
says it tried to make contact with Ms M by phone and text message but was unable to 
do so. The loan was registered as being in default in mid-February 2021.
Ms M called Likely Loans shortly after the default had been registered to renew the 
payment arrangement. During this call Ms M was informed about the default having 
been registered. She said she hadnt been told that she had to renew the agreement 
before it ended otherwise adverse information would be reported in her credit file. A 
further arrangement for paying £50 per month was agreed for a further two months.
Ms M complained to Likely Loans that it had unfairly recorded information on her credit 
file in respect of the loan being six months in arrears and that she had defaulted on 
payments. She said she had regularly paid the agreed amount and had no intention of 
not doing so.
Likely Loans didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said that Ms M had been told multiple 
times that her credit file could be impacted by her not making the full payments as set 
by the agreement. It said the reduced payment arrangements were designed to be 
short- term only and she had been told to make contact before such an arrangement 
had ended to prevent the next stage of collections taking place.
Ms M was unhappy at the response from Likely Loans and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that Ms 
M had been on an alternative payment arrangement for a while and, that with each 
arrangement, she had been advised in a letter to make contact 14 days before the last 
payment had been taken. The need to make contact was also raised in phone calls and 
he thought it had been clear that when each arrangement ended then it was expected 
Ms M would resume payments at the rate set in the agreement.
Our investigator said he didnt think Likely Loans had done anything wrong when 
reporting the adverse information about Ms Ms management of her account to the 
credit reference agencies. He said it had reported the information accurately and had 
been obliged to do so.
Ms M disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said it had never been made 
clear to her that it was a mandatory requirement to make contact before each of the 
payment plans ended and that failure to do so would result in a mark on her credit file.Ms M queried why the default had been added as she had maintained the £50 per 
month payment after the plan had ended and she genuinely believed everything was 
fine. She said there had been no breakdown in the relationship between herself and 
Likely Loans. Ms M disputed that the information that had been recorded on her credit 
file was accurate.
As the parties had been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed 
to me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Id seen that Ms M entered into the fixed sum loan agreement with Likely Loans in May 
2017. The agreement was for the loan to be repaid over 24 months but, unfortunately 
due to a change in her circumstances, Ms M fell into arrears from around February 2018. 
I thought it wasnt disputed that Ms M had breached the agreements terms and 
conditions by failing to make the full contractual monthly payments.
In March 2018, Ms M had called Likely Loans to explain her situation and make an 
offer to clear the arrears in April 2018 and possibly even clear the full amount of the 
loan. However, Ms M then found she wasnt in a position to do either of these things. 
She made an offer to make repayments of £50 per month from May 2018, which was 
accepted for six months by Likely Loans. Id seen that this payment arrangement had 
been renewed on a number of occasions for set periods of time, and that Ms M hadnt 
missed making any of these £50 per month payments.
But, looking at the amount that had been due to be paid under the agreement and the 
monthly amount Ms M had been making, I thought it was fair to call these payments 
token amounts. It was going to take Ms M several years to clear the balance if she 
continued to pay £50pm.
There had been a number of phone conversations between Likely Loans and Ms M, 
together with letters and notices being sent to her over the months since shed first been 
unable to make a full payment, and Id been provided with copies of these. Id also seen 
a copy of the loan agreement.
Under the terms and conditions of the fixed sum loan agreement it set out that charges 
could be applied if there was a breach. It also stated that if there were missing 
payments then there could be severe consequences including legal proceedings and/or 
registering a default against you at credit reference agencies.
Listening to a recording of the call between Ms M and Likely Loans in April 2018, when 
shed informed it that she would be unable to clear the arrears as originally offered, Ms 
M was clearly advised that there would be an impact on her credit file due to missed 
payments. She was also told that there would be an impact due to her paying less than 
the contractual amount. Finally, she was warned that if she didnt keep up with 
repayments then a default notice could be issued. Ms M told the agent she understood.
Id seen that this call was followed by a letter to Ms M that set out the payment 
agreement terms and that she should make contact 14 days before the last payment 
was due. This was to allow another assessment to be carried out to ensure her 
payments were affordable. The letter warned her that if the arrangement failed and 
Likely Loans couldnt make contact with her, then it may need to return to collection 
activities as per the terms and conditions of our agreement. This payment arrangement 
had been due to cease at the end of October 2018.
Before the first payment arrangement ended, a second payment arrangement, again at £50 
per month for six months, was agreed between Ms M and Likely Loans. Arrangements were also made for the same amount and duration in February and August 2019. Letters had 
been sent to Ms M from Likely Loans in the same terms as the first regarding each 
arrangement. So, I thought it was clear the arrangements were temporary, and the reduced 
payments wouldnt be automatically renewed.
At the end of January 2020, Ms M called Likely Loans to make a payment of £50 and 
was told that the previous arrangement had come to an end and that the situation 
therefore needed to be reviewed. Ms M asked to continue paying at £50 per month and 
the agent advised that she should seek advice because of the size of the arrears and the 
length of time it was going to take to clear the balance if the payments stayed at this rate. 
The agent also said that these payment arrangements were not a permanent 
arrangement. Ms M said that she understood this and expected her circumstances to 
change over the next year. The agent said that, due to the size of the arrears, there 
would be an impact on Ms Ms credit file. A new arrangement was made for a further six 
months which ended at the end of July 2020.
Likely Loans said that when this latest arrangement ended there had been no contact 
from Ms M and a default notice was issued in mid-August 2020. This notice gave Ms M 
28 days to pay the full amount outstanding under the agreement. Ms M had then 
contacted Likely Loans and set a new arrangement payment plan of £50 per month 
starting from the end of August 2020 and running up until the end of January 2021.
A few days later, Ms M called Likely Loans querying why her credit report was now 
showing a warning that this account would be shown as being six months in arrears from 
September 2020. Ms M had asked why adverse information was to be registered when 
shed reactivated the payment agreement. The agent told her that, as long as she made 
the payments as agreed, then no default would be registered on her credit file.
Ms M had called Likely Loans a few days later to query why there had been a missed 
payment registered against her account in her credit report. The agent informed her 
that, as she wasnt making the full contractual payments, then her account was in 
arrears.
They said that Likely Loans would be providing information as to her management of 
this account to the credit reference agencies. They said they were unable to tell Ms M 
why the payments were now showing as being in arrears when this hadnt been showing 
before and said that was a matter for the credit reference agency itself. The agent said 
the account should be showing that a special arrangement was in place and Ms M 
confirmed that that was correct. During this call the agent stressed the need to make 
sure that there were no gaps between the arrangements to pay as, otherwise, the 
default could be registered.
Likely Loans said that Ms M hadnt contacted them after the payment arrangement 
had ended in January 2021. It said it attempted to contact her but had been unable to 
do so. It had therefore registered the default.
Ms M complained not only about the default having been registered but also that the 
account had been registered as being in arrears on two occasions. However, in respect 
of the account being in arrears, Id seen that Likely Loans had registered the account as 
being behind in payments following Ms M first missing payments. It had continued to 
report the account as being in arrears up until the default had been registered in 
February 2021.
Looking at the credit report provided by Likely Loans for this account, I couldnt 
reasonably say that it had acted unfairly by recording the information that it had. Ms Ms 
account had been in arrears and she hadnt been managing it as per the contractual terms. Id also seen Ms M had been advised on a number of occasions that there would 
be an adverse impact on her credit file due to missed payments and not making the full 
contractual payments. Ms M had also acknowledged this and said she understood. While 
I appreciated that the credit report Ms M had been looking at hadnt been showing this 
account was in arrears, that didnt accord with the information that had been provided by 
Likely Loans to the credit reference agencies.
Looking at the number of payments arrangements made between Ms M and Likely 
Loans, I thought it had provided her with reasonable time to pay the debt. When the 
payment arrangement ended in July 2020, then I thought Likely Loans had been acting 
fairly when it issued the default notice to Ms M. The account had been in arrears for 
over two years at that point with Ms M making only token payments towards the 
outstanding balance. The default notice had been issued because Ms M hadnt made 
contact as requested when the payment arrangement was coming to an end.
Id seen that a further payment arrangement had been set up which had finished at 
the end of January 2021. Likely Loans said that Ms M had failed to contact it and, as a 
consequence, it had registered the default against her account. Id also seen that Ms 
M disputed that Likely Loans attempted to contact her at this time.
Although I thought Ms M should have known that she had needed to be proactive about 
seeking a further review of the payments, I thought the registering of the default, that 
had been issued in August 2020 by Likely Loans, was unfair. This was because the 
purpose of a default notice was to set out clearly how Ms M could remedy the breach of 
contract and remedy the default.
While I appreciated the full amount of the loan was outstanding as the agreement had 
ended, this notice was in effect out of date as the information it had contained wasnt 
correct. Ms M had made a number of further payments under the agreed payment plan. 
A new default notice should have been provided for Ms M, so she had known what she 
had needed to do to remedy the breach, rather than have to have made her own 
calculations as to what she owed.
So, looking at all the evidence, I thought Likely Loans had acted unfairly when it 
had registered the default on Ms Ms account. However, I didnt think it had acted 
unfairly when reporting that the account had been in arrears.
In regard to the account being in arrears, Likely Loans was obliged to record fair and 
accurate information about Ms Ms management of her account. Here Ms M had 
breached the agreement by not making the contractual payments and, although making 
part payments, the account had been many months in arrears and the term for making 
the payments had passed.
For the reasons given above I was intending to partially uphold Ms Ms complaint. I 
asked Likely Loans to remove the default recorded against this account, but I didnt ask 
it to remove the information regarding the account being in arrears.
I appreciated that the registering of the default had caused Ms M concern and she said 
it had had an impact on her ability to obtain other credit. However, while I appreciated a 
default would have had serious consequences, the length of time this loan had been 
subject to a special arrangement with payments having been far below the contractual 
amount would also have had an impact. I didnt think I could reasonably quantify what 
impact the default alone would have had on other credit applications made by Ms M. 
So, in light of the history of how Ms M had managed this account I didnt think 
compensation was warranted to her.Likely Loans has agreed to remove the default notice. Ms M has asked about the 
adverse information that was recorded on her account and queried whether it had been 
accurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has asked me to look again at the conclusions Ive reached overall, but Ms M 
says two defaults had been registered for the months of August 2020 and February 2021 
for this account on her credit file. Ms M says that it isnt fair, and both should be removed
However, Ive looked at the information recorded by two different credit record agencies. 
One report was supplied by Ms M and one by Likely Loans. Looking at these reports, I am 
satisfied that only one default was recorded for this account in February 2021. Likely 
Loans, as it had explained to Ms M, has reported her account as being in arrears for many 
months. This was due to the monthly payments of £50 being considerably lower than the 
monthly instalments under the agreement. Arrears had therefore accrued and once they 
reached the equivalent of three months this had been reported as three months in arrears 
and then later as six months in arrears. I think this is fair reporting of Ms Ms management 
of her account.
Ive seen the report provided by Ms M shows two late payments for August 2021 and 
February 2021, I am not clear why the other months dont show arrears as this is what has 
been reported but I think thats a matter for that credit reference agency and how it decides 
to record the information reported to it by Likely Loans. However, this report only shows 
one default which was registered on this account in February 2021.
Likely Loans has an obligation to report accurate and fair information to the credit reference 
agencies and this is what it has done. Ms M hasnt been managing this account in line with 
the agreements terms and conditions and this account is in arrears. However, having 
reviewed my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them, I havent changed my view 
that the registering of the default in February 2021 was unfair. Likely Loans should have 
issued a new default notice once the payment plan agreed in August 2020 had ended. So, 
in these circumstances I am still asking Likely Loans to remove that default from her 
account and amend that on her credit file.
However, for the reasons given above, Im not asking Likely Loans to remove any 
other adverse information its reported to the credit agencies.
I am also still of the view that compensation for Ms M isnt warranted here for the recording 
of the default in February 2021. I think there would have been an impact in any event on 
her credit file due to Ms M having not made the full contractual payments as required since 
around February 2018. This means Im unable to quantify what additional impact a default 
would have had.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Ms Ms complaint. Im asking 
Likely Loans to remove the record of the default registered in February 2021 for this 
account from Ms Ms credit file.My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Ms Ms complaint. Im asking Oakbrook 
Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to remove the record of the default for this 
account from Ms Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman