DRN-3142005
The complaint
Mr A, as a director of S, a limited company complains that United Trust Bank Limited sought 
to impose an unfair charge for extending the company non-regulated loan account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them. As such I cannot satisfy Mr As request that the bank be sanctioned even if I 
found that t had been in the wrong.
I appreciate Mr As annoyance at the company being charged an administration fee of £495 
for the extension of the loan. However, the loan documentation signed on behalf of the 
company allows the bank to impose additional fees if asked to undertake certain work. Mr A 
asked that the loan be extended and It is not unreasonable for the bank to make a charge, 
not least given the size of the loan
The loan documentation also allows the bank to seek reimbursement of reasonable costs. In 
this case it sought to impose a flat fee for granting the extension. I know Mr A thinks the 
bank was trying to extract money as the company was moving the account, but I cannot say 
that I have seen any evidence to support this claim.
The bank agreed to forgo the charge so S has not suffered any financial loss and I can see 
no basis which would allow me to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
