DRN-2938965
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited gave him incorrect information about the 
interest rate applied to his loan and that it has miscalculated the interest charge.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
I will deal firstly with the incorrect information given to Mr B. Hyundai has agreed that the 
agent dealing with Mr B incorrectly said the rate was 3.53% and this was reinforced when it 
supplied a screenshot in response to his subject access request. Hyundai has said that the 
agent made an error and it has also told us that it has a system issue which can result in the 
wrong flat rate interest (PAF) being shown but this does not mean that the charges were 
incorrect. It says the system calculations show the correct rate despite this glitch.
I agree with out investigator that this incorrect information was less than helpful and has 
resulted in Mr B spending more time seeking a resolution than it should. For that I think he 
should be compensated and I believe £100 is fair.
On the second and more substantive point we enter the complex world of interest rate 
calculations. Hyundai has sent Mr B and this service a detailed and complex calculation 
which I can imagine did little to reassure Mr B. However, I am satisfied that the formula it 
supplied is in line with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority.
It has provided this service with a more accessible explanation and a statement showing the 
monthly payments the amount of interest payable each month. This shows a reducing 
interest charge as the capital owing is reduced. I have reviewed this statement and I am 
satisfied that the annual percentage rate (APR) of 4.9% was used as set out in the 
agreement.
APR is the standard way of showing the cost of borrowing and is calculated taking into 
account the following things. The interest rate, other charges the customer has to pay, how
long the agreement lasts and the amount and timing of the repayments. The calculations 
using the reducing balance and taking into account the balloon payment are in line with an 
APR of 4.9% with interest of £38.92 being charged on the first payment and £18.91 at the 
time of the balloon payment. 
I would add that the agreement which Mr B signed also set out the total interest payable and 
this is the sum he agreed to pay regardless of how the interest was calculated. So, while I 
recognise that Mr B will not be happy with my decision I do not consider I can uphold his 
complaint on this point.
Putting things right
Hyundai should compensate Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Hyundai Capital UK 
Limited to pay Mr B compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman