DRN-3591621
The complaint
Mr T complains that, though his mortgage offer from National Westminster Bank Plc
agreed to cover his legal fees and all standard disbursements he was still charged a
CHAPS fee. Although the fee was refunded, Mr T wanted NatWest to admit it was wrong.
What happened
Mr T told us hed accepted a remortgage offer with NatWest, which included only two fees 
a product fee of £995 and a CHAPS fee of £30. But he said the legal team working for 
NatWest then added a CHAPS fee of £36, and he had to pay that so that his mortgage 
completed.
NatWest said this wasnt a legal fee, so it wasnt covered by the no legal fees agreement it
had made. But it refunded this money anyway, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr T told us he thought that this payment was covered by NatWests agreement to pay not
just the legal fees, but also all standard disbursements in connection with the work done by
its legal advisors.
Mr T said that it was ethically wrong, and probably legally incorrect, for NatWest to force its
customers to pay this cost. So he said he wanted a formal apology, and compensation to
reimburse him for the time hed spent pursuing this. He wanted that compensation payment
to take account of the wider impact of this point on NatWests reputation.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that NatWest had sent
Mr T documentation which did say it would cover all the legal fees for a standard
remortgage. But our investigator said this wasnt a legal fee, and NatWest had never said
there would be no fees of any sort.
Mr T repeated that he thought the CHAPS fee was a standard disbursement. He said hed
checked with the legal firm involved, and there was no way any remortgage could be
completed without this transfer being made. This fee was always going to be incurred. Mr T
referred again to the wording of the offer, and said he still thought this was covered.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
The offer Mr T received said this 
We will pay the conveyancer's fee, including VAT, for all standard remortgage work
and all standard disbursements in connection with this work, but the Customer will be
required to pay for any unusual work or disbursements including, but not limited to,
registration of unregistered title, transfer of title, additional charges secured on the
Property and additional work required in connection with leasehold properties.
All the internal notes Ive seen suggest that NatWest has understood it had only ever
promised to pay the legal fees. But that isnt what its offer says. NatWest has also 
agreed to cover standard disbursements.
Mr T says hes checked with the legal firm who did this work, and a CHAPS fee is 
always payable for any remortgage. The old mortgage cant be redeemed without this 
payment, and a transfer fee is always incurred for that.
So thats why Mr T expected this fee to be covered. He hasnt argued that the CHAPS 
fee charged is a legal fee. But he does think that this charge should fall within standard
disbursements. And if thats right, then it should have been covered by NatWest.
Subject to further evidence from NatWest, my current view is that this payment does fit 
into the category of standard disbursements. So I think NatWest should have covered 
this cost.
Mr T isnt out of pocket, because NatWest has repaid the fee, as a gesture of goodwill. 
But its never accepted that it made any mistake. Mr T wants it to do that. And he has 
pursued this complaint because he wanted NatWest to accept it had done something 
wrong in applying this charge.
My current view is that Mr T is right. But it may help for me to set out what our service is 
able to do about that. We arent a regulator, and I cant require NatWest to change this 
wording, going forward. Nor can I look at the wider impact of this wording, outside of Mr 
Ts circumstances.
I can only look at what has happened in this case. And in this case, I take account of the 
fact that this was always a relatively modest fee, and NatWest then refunded the 
challenged fee promptly. But I also take into account that this caused a last minute 
hiccup in Mr Ts mortgage- resulting in a delay while he investigated a fee hed 
understood he shouldnt be charged, and adding further stress at what is already a very 
stressful time. So I think a payment of £100 in compensation would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied, to say that they agreed with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side has offered further evidence in the case, and I havent changed my mind. So Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman