DRN-3235920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt settled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 17 February 2020 to cover a 
holiday between 2 March and 26 March 2020. The insurer was ERGO.
Mr and Mrs G travelled abroad on 2 March 2020. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential international travel. And on 23 March 2020, 
the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the UK.
Mr and Mrs Gs return flight was due to leave on 25 March 2020, but this was cancelled on 
24 March 2020 by the airline. Mr and Mrs G booked new return flights and returned to the 
UK on 12 April 2020. Mr and Mrs G received a refund from the airline for the original return 
flight that was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs G made a claim to ERGO for the additional flight costs, as well as £100 per night 
under the Travel delay section of the policy for the additional nights they had to stay abroad. 
ERGO declined the claim as it said the circumstances werent covered under the policy 
Mr and Mrs G held. Unhappy with ERGOs decision, Mr and Mrs G brought a complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs situation was 
covered by any of the policy terms  our investigator reviewed the terms for Amendment or 
cancellation costs, Abandonment, Travel disruption and Travel delay. Overall, our 
investigator didnt think ERGO had done anything wrong in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive looked through the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. Unfortunately, I dont 
think their situation is covered under any section of the policy they held. Ill explain why.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Mr and Mrs Gs holiday 
wasnt cancelled as they travelled abroad. It also wasnt cut short or curtailed because they 
didnt come home early. Rather, Mr and Mrs G had to stay abroad longer than intended.
Mr and Mrs G held an economy level of cover, which meant that they werent covered for 
Travel disruption. The Amendment or cancellation costs section of the policy provides cover 
where the policyholder has to cancel or cut short their holiday. As Ive outlined above, 
neither of these happened  Mr and Mrs Gs return flight was cancelled, and they had to stay 
abroad longer than intended. That means their holiday wasnt cancelled before it started, 
and it wasnt cut short as they didnt return home early.
The Abandonment section of the policy only covers certain situations that impact the 
outward journey from the UK. But it was Mr and Mrs Gs return journey that was impacted, 
rather than the outward journey.
Fundamentally, Mr and Mrs Gs claim is for the cost of a flight taken after their original 
intended return date and their policy simply doesnt provide cover for an enforced stay 
abroad due to a flight cancellation, or due to a pandemic.
Finally, Mr and Mrs G also claimed for Travel delay. This section provides cover where the 
policyholders pre-booked transport is temporarily delayed. There may be situations where I 
might say it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to consider this section to cover 
costs due to a cancelled flight, rather than a delayed one. But I dont think thats the case 
here because the policy says there is no cover under this section where the policyholder 
hasnt checked-in, which Mr and Mrs G say they hadnt done because the flight was 
cancelled the previous day.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I dont think ERGO has done anything wrong when 
it declined their claim. This is because the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of their policy with ERGO and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask ERGO to accept their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman