DRN-3393328
The complaint
Ms K complaints that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
In February 2019, Ms K was contacted by someone claiming to be from HMRC, but it turned 
out this person was a scammer. Ms K says the caller told her that criminal proceedings were 
going to be commenced against her, as following tax audits, she was being charged with tax 
fraud, theft by deception and violation of HMRC and that she had unpaid taxes of £4,898. 
She was told that papers were going to be lodged at court by the end of the day.
Ms K has said the caller sounded very professional, used a lot of technical language and 
their tone was threatening and stern. Ms K said she told the caller that this was the first she 
had heard of this and was told other attempts had been made to contact her, but that they 
hadnt been able to get through to her number. 
Ms K has said she felt panicked by what she was told and how this had escalated into 
criminal charges. She says she was pleading with the caller to keep this a civil matter. The 
caller told Ms K he didnt have the authority to make this decision, so he said he would 
transfer her to somebody higher. Ms K has said at this point she was shaking, traumatised 
and hyper ventilating. Shes explained that due to her profession, if criminal charges were 
brought against her, it would be very serious.
The second caller went through all of the criminal charges with Ms K. He told her that as she 
had a clean record with HMRC and because of her willingness to pay, he would allow this to 
be settled if she paid in full. He said another condition of allowing this would be that Ms K 
would need to attend a HMRC interview to speak with an accountant, and that for the next 
five years an HMRC accountant would be appointed to oversee her tax affairs. Ms K 
arranged to attend an HMRC interview on 9 February 2019 and was provided details of the 
address this would be held at.
 
Ms K has said that she believed she may have owed some taxes, as she had written to her 
accountant just a couple of weeks before, in January, asking if she had any tax to pay by the 
end of the month. She hadnt heard back from her accountant, but when she received the 
call from the scammers, as it coincided with her contacting her accountant, she assumed 
she must have tax to pay.  
Ms K was told that the payment couldnt be made by credit card, as HMRC had a duty not to 
put people further in debt. She was told there was a black mark against her name with 
HMRC, which may cause problems for her to make a payment to governmental bodies. So 
when making the payment, the caller told Ms K that its best not to mention that the transfer 
was being made to HMRC. Ms K has said she just wanted the legal proceedings against her 
to stop and believing everything to be genuine, went ahead and made the following 
payments via online banking;
- £1,950 6/2/2019 @ 11:43am
- £3,000 6/2/2019 @ 11:48am
The payments Ms K attempted to make were flagged by HSBCs fraud detection team who 
contacted Ms K to discuss the payments. During an initial call, HSBC informed Ms K that 
they needed verbal declaration for the payments and asked her how shed received the 
details for the payments. Ms K told the bank that the payments were for a friend, who had 
lent her some money and she was paying him back. HSBC also asked Ms K if there would 
be any more payments going to this beneficiary and she replied, no not at all. 
Following these payments Ms K continued to speak to the scammers. They told her that the 
Court had already paid the fees of £5,000 and the legal action was now going ahead, 
regardless of the fact that she had paid the amount she owed in full. Ms K has said this 
panicked her further. The caller told Ms K that he was trying to tell the Court, on her behalf, 
that she was being compliant in paying the full tax amount. She was told that unless the 
Court fees, of £5,000 were refunded, the proceedings would be lodged. But the caller told 
Ms K that the best thing to do, would be to pay the £5,000, as this would then be refunded to 
her when she attended the interview that had been arranged. Ms K went ahead and made 
the following payment, to the same payee details as the previous two payments;
- £5,000 6/2/2019 @ 12:56pm
Shortly after making the payment Ms K called HSBC to ask if the payment for £5,000 had 
reached the account she had sent it to. HSBC told her that the £5,000 had gone through, but 
that there were fraud checks on the previous two payments (for £1,950 and £3,000). The 
HSBC agent also asked Ms K why she didnt send all of the money in one go, when it was 
going to the same account. Ms K told the agent she wasnt sure the amount would go 
through in a big amount, so she separated them into smaller amounts. The agent told Ms K 
that her daily mobile banking transfer limit was £25,000, and that as she had confirmed the 
payments as genuine, she could now release them.
The agent asked Ms K if anybody had asked her to make the payments and then noticed 
that Ms K had already called in earlier, about the first two payments. At which point she 
again confirmed that the payments had been released. 
Around an hour later, HSBCs fraud department contacted Ms K explaining that it wanted to 
discuss her recent banking activity. The HSBC agent asked Ms K if shed authorised the 
three transactions and what was the purpose of the payments. She confirmed she had 
authorised the payments and told HSBC she was lending money to a friend. The agent 
asked Ms K if she knew the friend personally and if she had met them, to which Ms K 
confirms she had. The agent said that was fine but that they do see a lot of fraud these days 
where customers are contacted by a third party. Ms K interjected confirming that she 
appreciated the call. The agent went on to ask how Ms K got the account details and she 
confirmed the payment details were given to her personally. 
Following this, the scammer directed Ms K to HMRCs webpage and provided her with a 
long reference number and PIN number that she should input, she was told this would 
enable her to see Court papers and documents for her interview with the HMRC accountant. 
But when she tried to gain access, it wouldnt let her enter the PIN. Ms K was told by the 
scammer that they couldnt understand why that was happening, so they would need to go 
back and liaise with the court department on Ms K s behalf. The scammer came back to Ms 
K and told her that due to there being a delay between the payments she had made, the 
filing of papers and proceedings would still go ahead. 
 
Ms K said she asked how this could be the case and she was told that if one full payment 
for £9,900 was paid this would satisfy the system, but as things stood proceedings would go ahead if the payment wasnt received by 5pm. Ms K has said at this point she had been on 
the phone for around five hours and wasnt thinking clearly, worrying about the deadline 
being missed. The caller suggested that Ms K go to her nearest branch to make the 
payment.
 
As instructed, Ms K attended the nearest HSBC branch and attempted to make a payment 
for £9,900 over the counter, to the same payee she had made the previous three payments 
to, but the payment didnt go through. Ms K has said she recalls this was at about 3:30pm 
and she told the branch staff that the payment was urgent and had to be with the recipient by 
5:00pm. Shes said the branch staff suggested that Ms K transfer the money from her 
current account to her savings account and pay from there  but this didnt work as Ms K s 
savings account was no longer in use.
At this point Ms K has said she was in a complete panic and she spoke to the scammer 
again who told her to calm down, Ms K recalls that she was pacing up and down in the 
branch. The scammer provided Ms K with alternative account details for where the payment 
could be made to, which he told Ms K was for another HMRC accountant. Ms K has said she 
went to make the payment through the machines inside the branch  but before doing so 
had to line up so the bank staff could enter the new payee details into the system. Ms K 
asked the branch staff for help putting the payment through and went ahead and made the 
following payment;
- £9,900 6/2/2019 @ 3:24pm
Communications between Ms K and the scammer continued, and she was told that a further 
payment, for £4,900 was required and that she should contact HSBC to make sure there 
were no delays with the payment. As a result, Ms K called HSBC but was told her account 
was suspended and she would need to attend her branch.
Ms K has said she visited the branch the following day and was told that the system had 
highlighted suspicious activity. She provided ID, by way of her passport and was told that her 
account should now be active. But when she tried to log in to her online banking it remained 
suspended. Ms K has said she called HSBC again on 8 February 2019 and was told that she 
would need to go back to the branch, as the person shed spoken to the previous day hadnt 
followed the correct procedure and should have contacted the fraud department. Ms K 
attended the branch again, where she says she was questioned about the payments she 
had made. Ms K said she was still in a state of fear, as she had been told not to say who the 
payments were actually going to. HSBC didnt allow the payment for £4,900 to go through 
due to the concerns it had over the payment. 
Ms K called the scammer and was told to call back in 20 minutes, but when she tried to call 
back the number was permanently engaged. Ms K then attended the address she had been 
given for the HMRC interview she had arranged for 9 February 2019. It was at this point, 
when it came to light there was no interview, that she realised she had been the victim of a 
scam.
Ms K raised the matter with HSBC on 9 February 2019. It tried to recover the funds from the 
receiving bank, but no funds remained. HSBC looked into Ms K s complaint and issued its 
final response on 4 September 2019, not upholding her complaint. In summary it said, its 
fraud detection systems had picked up the payments and Ms K confirmed she was paying a 
friend, for the repayment of funds she had borrowed, it added that the final payment, for 
£4,900 was stopped.
HSBC said that due to the time that had passed it had been unable to review the situation 
with the branch member of staff (regarding the payment for £9,900), but it says the branch would not have set the payment up if they had concerns regarding the request. It also said it 
had no record of an unsuccessful attempt to transfer £9,900. It says when Ms K visited the 
branch again on 8 February 2019, it was not made aware the scammer had claimed to be 
from HMRC.
Overall, it said the payments were made in line with Ms Ks instructions and these payments 
dont offer any protection. It said it was unable to recover any funds and that it would not 
provide a refund.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Ms K then brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our investigators looked into things. He thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
HSBC should refund the money Ms K had lost, along with interest. He said he thought HSBC 
did the right thing in trying to verify the transactions and he acknowledged Ms K had given it 
incorrect information. But it was our investigators view that HSBC didnt go far enough in 
explaining the types of scams and warning Ms K that institutions wouldnt ask for payments 
over the phone in such a manner. In summary, he thought had HSBC taken the opportunity 
to take these steps at the time of the transfers, Ms K would have become aware she was 
being scammed and wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.
 
HSBC disagreed with our investigators view, in summary it said;
- There was no explanation as to why Ms K thought she owed HMRC money, or what 
due diligence checks she made to try and verify who she was speaking with prior to 
making the payments.
- There was no explanation as to why Ms K was told to pay individuals, rather than to 
HMRC directly.
- It considered, due to her profession, that Ms K was a sophisticated individual, who 
was conversant with how HMRC operates.
- Ms K was coached by the scammers, so it doesnt consider it can be supported that 
had scams been explained to her, when she spoke with HSBC, it would have broken 
the spell.  
- Its agent would not have been aware Ms K was being asked to make a payment by 
an institution and Ms K had interjected when one of its agents started to warn her 
about calls from third parties.
- It didnt consider it could be properly concluded that even if it had further questioned 
the customer and discussed scams in more detail, that this would have made a 
difference.
- There was also no consideration as to whether there was contributory negligence on 
Ms Ks part.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
On 16 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold this complaint in part. 
In my provisional decision, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator and when 
considering all of the circumstances, while I think HSBC could have done more than it did, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to order it to refund Ms K all of the money 
she lost. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. But that is not the end of the story and taking into account 
the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
 
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms K, when she made the transfers and when she reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did. 
Ms K has accepted that she authorised the payment. Because of this, HSBC had an 
obligation to follow her instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
 
Here I can see that the first two payments Ms K made did flag on HSBCs fraud detection 
systems, which meant she had to speak with HSBC before the payments were allowed to be 
progressed. So, Ive thought carefully about whether intervention at this point went far 
enough. Ive listened to the calls that HSBC had with Ms K when she made the first two 
payments (for £1,950 and £3,000). The agent asked Ms K what the payment is for, how 
shed received the payment details and whether she knew who she was paying personally. 
 
It is finely balanced as to whether HSBC, at this point, ought fairly and reasonably to have 
questioned Ms K further about the payments she was making, after all the payments 
appeared suspicious enough to HSBC, that they were picked up by its fraud detection 
systems. But having thought carefully about this, I think the questions HSBC asked at this 
point did go far enough and Im not persuaded it missed an opportunity here to uncover the 
fraud, or to identify that Ms K may have been at risk of financial harm. 
I say that as when considering the previous activity on Ms Ks account, in the six months 
leading up to the scam, these payments were larger in value than she typically makes and they were to a new payee. But Im also mindful that they didnt clear a substantial amount of 
Ms Ks balance, which can be the indicator of a scam and Ms K spoke plausibly about the 
reasons for the payments. So overall, on balance, I think the questions HSBC asked at this 
point were proportionate to the circumstances and, while it is finely balanced, when 
considering the individual circumstances of this case I dont think it missed an opportunity 
here to uncover the scam. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask HSBC 
to refund these two payments.
 
Ive gone on to consider carefully what happened when Ms K went on to make the next 
payment for £5,000. Having made the payment Ms K called HSBC to check whether the 
payment had reached the intended account. During this call the agent asked Ms K why she 
had made three payments, rather than one and they checked with Ms K that she hadnt been 
asked to make the payment. The agent confirmed that the payments could be released as 
Ms K had confirmed they were genuine. 
But following this Ms K then received a call from HSBCs fraud team, explaining that it 
wanted to speak to Ms K about her recent banking activity. The agent asks Ms K if shed 
authorised the three payments that had been made and what the purpose of the payments 
were. Ms K confirmed she had authorised them and that she was lending money to a friend.
I am mindful that Ms K didnt tell the agent the real purpose of the payments. Shed been told 
not to and at that stage I accept Ms K believed the person who had called her from HMRC 
was genuine. But alongside this, Im also mindful that it is widely recognised by firms like 
HSBC, that fraudsters often provide customers with a convincing reason to make a payment 
and that fraudsters often instruct customers not to discuss what has happened with the bank 
and to provide a cover story. 
And in those circumstances as a matter of good practice it may be appropriate to challenge 
the customer further. It seems to me that during this call HSBCs fraud team ought 
reasonably to have identified there was a possibility that something untoward might be going 
on and taken additional steps. The consumer was making a third substantial payment to a 
new payee, in very quick succession and Im persuaded, at this point, a clear pattern is 
emerging not at all typical of the usual activity on Ms Ks account.
Im also persuaded that when considering things in the round there are other red flags that 
ought to have caused HSBCs fraud team to be concerned that Ms K may have been at risk 
of financial harm. I say that as the reason she has given HSBC for the payment has 
changed, for the first two payments she told HSBC she was repaying money she had 
borrowed, but here she tells it she is lending money. Alongside this, when Ms K speaks to 
the first agent, she is asked whether further funds will be paid to this account, to which Ms K 
responds no, not at all. So it would seem odd that having said that, there was then a further 
payment in quick succession which was of an increasing amount going to the same 
beneficiary.
Ive thought carefully here about what HSBC has said, in that Ms K did interject when it 
seems its agent was going to go on to talk about fraud involving third parties. But given,     
Ms K would have no knowledge of what scams may look and feel like, unlike HSBC that do. I 
think there was enough going on that HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have made 
additional checks at this point and to have probed further. 
Whilst I accept there is a balance to be struck and there are limits to the depth of questioning 
a firm can pursue, HSBC could  and in my view ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
asked Ms K extra questions in this case, essentially to challenge the purpose of the payment 
and to ask for more detail, for example about why she was making further payments, when 
she had previously indicated she wasnt going to, why had the purpose of making the 
payments changed and I also think HSBC could have reasonably picked up on the urgency with which Ms K was trying to make these payments, which is another indicator of a potential 
scam. 
 
Im not satisfied Ms K was asked enough probing questions and I think HSBC had an 
opportunity to do more at this stage. I cant know for sure what would have happened had 
HSBC asked further questions, so I have to base my findings on the balance of probabilities, 
that is what is more likely than not to have happened. Having thought carefully about this, 
had it asked further questions, I think it is more likely than not that Ms K would have 
struggled with some of the details underpinning the cover story she had been given and 
either HSBC would have identified, or Ms K would have realised, she was in the process of 
being scammed. More likely, in the circumstances of this case, I think HSBC would have 
become more concerned, which I think is supported when it does later start to challenge    
Ms K more about a payment she is intending to make, leading it to blocking the payment and 
not allowing it to be processed.
 
On balance, at the point Ms K was making the third payment for £5,000, I think HSBC ought 
to have had serious concerns that she may be at risk of financial harm, so alongside asking 
probing questions I think it could fairly and reasonably have given Ms K some information 
about scams and what they typically looked and felt like. Im mindful that HSBC wouldnt 
have known for sure what scam Ms K may have been falling victim to, but had it taken the 
time to discuss the most common types of scam, it may have helped Ms K to have pieced 
together what was happening.
 
Overall, Im not persuaded that in this particular case HSBC was able to assure itself fraud 
likely wasnt taking place, and that Ms K wasnt at risk of financial harm, at the point she was 
making the payment for £5,000. Im persuaded that had it probed further its more likely than 
not it would have become clear that Ms K was falling victim to a scam, and I dont think she 
would have gone ahead to make this, or the payment for £9,900 that followed. 
Should Ms K bear some responsibility for the loss? 
Ive thought about whether Ms K ought to bear some responsibility for her loss, considering 
her actions at the time of the scam. And Im mindful HSBC has questioned why she thought 
she owed money to HMRC and that it considers, due to her profession, that she is a 
sophisticated individual, who was conversant with how HMRC operated.
Im not persuaded that Ms K would have been more attuned to this type of scam, due to her 
profession. Shes explained that she has had very limited interaction with HMRC on a 
professional level and never about HMRC scams. Fraudsters know that fear can often have 
a negative effect on a persons thought process. It can certainly make people take steps 
that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise take. And Im persuaded that was the 
case here, given the concerns Ms K clearly had of the implications on her livelihood of legal 
action being taken against her.
Ms K has explained and provided evidence to show that the month before the scam she had 
written to her accountant asking if she had any tax to pay by the end of January 2019. She 
hadnt received a reply and so when she got the call from the scammer, she assumed that 
she did have tax to pay. I think the unfortunate timing of her having contacted her accountant 
so recently, made HMRC calling her not seem out of the blue. 
Overall, I think a reasonable person, in the circumstance of facing the imminent threat of 
legal action for unpaid tax, might be similarly persuaded that the call was legitimate. 
Particularly bearing in mind the social engineering and pressure tactics in the call to make it 
more difficult for her to identify and reflect on any warning signs.In considering all of the circumstances of the case I dont find Ms K should bear any 
responsibility for the loss by way of contributory negligence. She was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam, where a considerable amount of pressure was applied to her to act 
quickly and Im satisfied she was entirely duped by the scammers. 
Recovery
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC acted promptly and reasonably when the scam was 
reported. Ms K reported the scam to it on 9 February 2019. HSBC contacted the receiving 
bank and it confirmed no funds remained, and Ive seen evidence that the funds at left the 
receiving bank on the same day that Ms K had made the payments. In the circumstances, I 
consider HSBC acted reasonably in attempting to recover the funds Ms K lost and didnt 
miss an opportunity to recover any funds. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, Im currently minded to ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
-Refund Ms K £14,900 (being the sum of the third and fourth payments she made to 
the fraudster)
-Pay 8% interest per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) from the 
date of transactions to the date of settlement.
I invited further evidence and comments from both parties.
Ms K responded, disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary she said that HSBC 
missed significant red flags. She said this because she considered even the initial payments 
were out of line with previous activity on the account. Ms K said that prior to making the 
payments, due to inactivity, she had to reactivate her online banking by calling HSBC and 
then, on the fraudsters instructions, she had to make multiple calls to HSBCs fraud 
department to check whether the payments had been made. Ms K says that HSBC should 
have linked the reactivation of her online account with the number of calls she had made to 
the fraud number. 
Ms K has said whilst she sounded convincing on the phone, this was because she was 
being deceived by fraudsters who had placed her under psychological and financial 
pressure, because of the potential and serious effects on her professional career.  Overall, 
she considers that HSBC could have done more than it did.
HSBC responded and it also disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary it said that 
on a professional level Ms K had experience of dealing with matters of fraud and HMRC and 
that she ought to have been able to spot that something wasnt right and should have 
practised caution before paying over significant funds. It added that it considered the threats 
the fraudster had made were implausible and Ms K, with her professional background, 
should have questioned why she was told the Court were paying fees, which are normally 
paid by litigants for Courts services. HSBC considers Ms K was in a unique position, when 
compared with a standard consumer, to realise this was a scam and it said she ought 
reasonably to have questioned what she was told.
HSBC added that there were other red flags that Ms K ought to have noticed, such as; it 
being highly implausible that unpaid taxes would be paid to an individuals account, paying 
over such a significant sum overall without verifying whether there was any tax liability and 
making further payments after not being able to access the website details she had been 
given. HSBC said while it appreciated the comments that had been made about the calls Ms K had 
with it. Ms K had been dishonest when talking to it about the true reasons for the payments, 
which HSBC says clearly impeded its ability to give a more specific warning. It says that in 
any event, having decided to make these payments, its very unlikely Ms K would have paid 
attention to such a warning in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that in this final decision Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt  because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to hear that Ms K doesnt agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, I 
dont think shes given me any new information that would change my mind, so I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
I dont disagree with Ms K that her initial payments were out of line, when compared with the 
previous account activity. And it seems to me that HSBC did too, as the payments triggered 
a conversation with its staff, before allowing the payments to be progressed. Ms K has said 
she thinks HSBC ought to have done more and she has asked what distinguishes the first 
two payments (which Im not ordering HSBC to refund), from the others.
As Ive noted, HSBC has a duty to look to identify and help prevent transactions that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. But Im mindful that this is balanced against its 
obligation to process payments that it is instructed to make by its customers. And I recognise 
HSBC has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity.
The first two payments Ms K made were flagged by HSBCs fraud detection systems and a 
conversation took place. And, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Im 
persuaded that the HSBC agent asked proportionate questions regarding the payments.    
Ms K has explained that while she sounded convincing on the phone, during the calls where 
these payments were discussed, it was because of the pressure to make the payments and 
because of the potential and serious adverse effects on her professional career. But the 
answers Ms K gave to the questions HSBC asked were plausible and she spoke confidently. 
I dont consider the answers Ms K gave would fairly and reasonably have led HSBC to have 
concern that she may have been at risk of financial harm. And while I dont doubt the 
pressure the fraudster was applying to Ms K, I cant fairly say that was apparent to the HSBC 
staff, when Ms K was talking to them. So, overall I cant fairly or reasonably say HSBC has 
done anything wrong by allowing these first two payments to be made.
What I consider distinguishes the third payment, from the first two payments, is that at this 
point Ms K is making a third large payment, over a relatively short period of time, to a new 
payee, for ever increasing amounts. She is also making a payment to a payee, after telling 
HSBC that she wouldnt be sending any further funds to this payee and she gives a 
conflicting reason for making the payment. When considering this in the round, Im 
persuaded that there is a clear pattern emerging here, that is not only untypical of how the 
account is run, but also carries certain hallmarks of how some scams can unfold  where fraudsters will often trick their victims into paying ever increasing amounts, over short 
periods of time. Overall, Im persuaded there is enough going on that I think it ought to have 
caused HSBC serious cause for concern that Ms K may have been at risk of financial harm.
 
Ive explained in my provisional decision that I think at this point HSBC could and ought to 
have done more than it did, and had it of done, for reasons already explained in my 
provisional decision that I wont repeat here, it would have made the difference and 
prevented Ms K from losing the money from this payment, and I dont think she would have 
gone on to make the subsequent payment she went on to make in branch.
 
Ive thought carefully about HSBCs representations that Ms K, due to her profession, was 
in a unique position, when compared with a standard consumer, to realise this was a scam 
and it said she ought reasonably to have questioned what she was told.
 
As Ive explained, I dont consider that Ms Ks individual circumstances were such that they 
made her unsusceptible to the circumstances of this scam. While historically Ms K may have 
had some exposure to fraud cases, shes told us that this hasnt been the case for many 
years, and she has said she has had limited direct interaction with HMRC on a professional 
level and never about HMRC scams. Importantly this scam focussed on Ms Ks personal tax 
affairs and shes told us she was inexperienced in dealing with HMRC as a self-employed 
person.
HSBC has said that Ms K ought to have known it was implausible that unpaid taxes would 
be paid to an individuals account. It says she should bear some responsibility for paying 
over such a significant sum without verifying whether there was any tax liability and making 
further payments after not being able to gain access to the website details she had been 
given. 
 
But, as Ive explained, Im mindful that shortly before the scam, Ms K had been in 
communication with her accountant and had asked whether she had any tax to pay. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for her to think there may have been outstanding tax due 
when she was then contacted by fraudsters regarding her tax. I acknowledge that with the 
benefit of hindsight and the removal of the pressured environment, that was created here its 
easier to identify elements of the scam that could be considered less believable. But, I can 
see why in the moment, and considering the immense pressure Ms K felt under to take 
immediate action, particularly given how she thought it may have serious implications with 
her profession, that Ms K took the steps she did.
Fraudsters know that fear can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process 
and it can be difficult for consumers to think clearly. The pressure that fraudsters apply can 
certainly make people take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise take. 
On the balance of evidence, Im not satisfied HSBC, in the specific circumstances of this 
case, has sufficiently considered this feature of the scam in deciding not to reimburse Ms K. 
Indeed, it seems to me that Ms Ks profession and the fear she had of repercussions was 
one of the key factors in this scam being so successful and making Ms K act in the way she 
did. 
While I understand why HSBC has raised the points it has. On balance, in all the 
circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded Ms Ks response to the fraudsters instructions 
and belief that she was dealing with HMRC was unreasonable.
Overall and in summary, Im issuing a final decision upholding this complaint in part for the 
reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision.Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, HSBC UK Bank Plc should now:
- Refund Ms K £14,900 (being the sum of the third and fourth payments she made to 
the fraudster)
- Pay 8% interest per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) from the 
date of transactions to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman