DRN-3600145
Complaint
Miss S has complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) charged her even more interest 
on her credit card despite being on a repayment plan as a result of being in persistent debt.
Background
In September 2018, Aqua wrote to Miss S to let her know that over the previous 18 months 
she had paid more in interest fees and charges than she had paid towards the amount shed 
borrowed and this meant that she was now in persistent debt. Aquas letter encouraged 
Miss S to increase her payments, by paying a recommended extra payment over and above 
the minimum due, so that she could repay more of the amount borrowed and ensure that 
she didnt remain in persistent debt.
In line with the regulators prescribed timings, Aqua once again wrote to Miss S nine months 
later, in June 2019, to explain that the position hadnt changed and that she remained in 
persistent debt. Miss S was once again encouraged to increase the amount of her monthly 
payments by the recommended extra payment.
In January 2020, Aqua wrote to Miss S for a third time to explain that the position hadnt 
changed and that shed now been in persistent debt for 34 months. And if Miss S remained 
in persistent debt in two months time  March 2020 - she would be moved to a PayDown 
Plan to repay what she owed more quickly.
Miss S account remained in persistent debt and she was moved onto a paydown plan in 
March 2020, where she would now pay 48 monthly instalments of £232.61 to clear what she 
owed. Miss S accepted being placed on a paydown plan. However, after making four of the 
scheduled payments  paying a total of £1,134.00  she noticed that her balance had only 
reduced by £244. Miss S was unhappy with this and complained to Aqua. She couldnt 
understand why she was now being charged more interest than she was being charged 
before and why the monthly payments on the paydown plan were less than what shed been 
paying in the months prior.   
Aqua didnt uphold Miss S complaint and as she remained dissatisfied she referred the 
complaint to our service. Miss S complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. 
She didnt think that Aqua had treated Miss S fairly and reasonably when transferring her to 
her paydown plan. So she recommended that Miss S complaint be upheld. Aqua disagreed 
with our investigator so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided to uphold Miss S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a bit more detail.
In February 2018, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published 
PS18/4  Credit card market study: Persistent debt and earlier intervention  feedback to 
CP17/43 and final rules (PS18/4). PS18/4 sought to implement new rules which were being 
brought in to address some of the harms in the credit card market which the FCA found in its 
Credit Card Market Study, which was published in 2016. In particular, in paragraph 1.5, the 
FCA stated that it was concerned about:
1.5 In particular, our analysis of the CCMS dataset found that in 2014 around 5.6 million 
people were potentially in problematic debt. This includes 2 million people who were either in 
arrears or had defaulted, a further 2 million who had held a balance above 90% of their 
credit limit for at least 1 year, and a further 1.6 million people who were only making the 
minimum repayments.  
And in paragraph 1.8 the FCA went on to say:
1.8 But the downside of this flexibility is that consumers can accumulate and sustain debt 
over a long period without making significant contributions to repaying the outstanding 
balance. Such customers are profitable for lenders, meaning firms have an incentive to allow 
this to continue. This harms customers because it can be an expensive way to carry longer-
term borrowing and can hide deeper financial difficulties.
The FCAs response to this was to set out a package of rules and guidance entitled Credit 
cards: persistent debt  set out in CONC 6.7.27R to CONC 6.7.40G and which came into 
force in March 2018. As part of this package of rules and guidance the FCA defined 
persistent debt as where a customer, over a period of 18 months pays more in interest, fees 
and charges than they have repaid of the principal balance on their card. 
Credit card providers are required to write to customers at this point, and also should they 
remain in persistent debt, after 27 months, notifying them that they are in persistent debt and 
encouraging them to pay more. And if a customer doesnt take sufficient action and remains 
in persistent debt after 36 months, the rules require a credit card provider to help a customer 
repay more quickly in a way that does not adversely affect their financial position  typically 
by setting up a repayment plan over a reasonable period of time.
It isnt in dispute that by September 2018, Miss S had paid more in interest, fees and 
charges than she had to her principal balance on her Aqua card in the previous 18 months. 
And Aqua in accordance with the rules sent Miss S her first persistent debt letter. 
Furthermore, it isnt in dispute that Miss S increased payments over the following 18 
months, after she was sent her second persistent debt letter in June 2019, were not enough 
to ensure that she paid more towards what she owed than she did in interest, fees and 
charges either. 
So Im satisfied that Miss S was in persistent debt according to the rules and guidance set 
out in CONC 6.7.27R to 6.7.30R. And that under the regulators rules and guidance Aqua 
was required to take steps to help Miss S repay what she owed more quickly.
Aqua says that it did this by moving Miss S onto a paydown plan in March 2020. This 
paydown plan required Miss S to repay £232.61 a month for 48 months. Its important to 
note that Miss S was automatically moved onto this repayment plan, which effectively 
converted Miss S outstanding balance of £5,730.27 into a loan for this amount with a four 
year term. I cant see that the terms of this arrangement  such as what the total charge for 
credit would be  were clearly and properly set out for Miss S before she was moved onto 
this arrangement. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss S was offered any 
alternative options either. It should be borne in mind that the purpose of these new rules was to encourage borrowers, 
who found themselves in persistent debt, to make payments higher than the minimum 
payment so that they clear what they owed more quickly and pay less in interest. By my 
calculations the repayment plan Aqua moved Miss S onto meant that she would pay 
£5,627.01 in interest over four years at an interest rate of 37.6% a year. So Aquas paydown 
plan certainly wasnt cheap. 
I am also mindful that on this payment schedule, 18 months in, Miss S would have made 
£4,258.98 in payments and only reduced what she owed by £1,228.82. And this would mean 
that she would still have paid more than double in interest, fees and charges than she paid 
towards the amount she owed. So even though Miss S was moved onto this paydown plan 
because she was in a persistent debt, she still would have been in a position where had she 
paid significantly more in interest fees and charges than she would have paid towards the 
amount she owed for a further 18 months. 
Indeed, it seems to me that on the amortisation schedule of the paydown plan Aqua 
imposed, more of Miss S monthly payment would go towards paying interest, fees and 
charges than towards the principal amount owed for the first 27 months of the 48 month 
term. And while I do accept that turning Miss S balance into a loan in this way provided her 
with a fixed end date to clear what she owed, nonetheless I cant see how moving Miss S 
onto a plan that would see her pay significantly more in interest fees and charges than she 
would towards what she owed for such a significant period of time, was a fair, reasonable 
and proportionate response to Miss S being in persistent debt. 
That said, what Im most concerned here is that the payments on the paydown plan were 
less than what Miss S had been paying in the months leading up to March 2020. For 
example, I can see that in November 2019, Miss S contractual minimum payment was 
£247.92 and her payment from the previous month was £240; in December 2019, Miss S 
contractual minimum payment was £245.72 and her payment from the previous month was 
£248; in January 2020, Miss S contractual minimum payment was £236.82 and her payment 
from the previous month was £250; and in February 2020 Miss S contractual minimum 
payment was £251.54 and her payment from the previous month was £237.
Given the rules and guidance in CONC 6.7.31R and CONC 6.7.32G refer to increased 
payments, I cant see how it was fair and reasonable for Aqua to automatically set up and 
impose a paydown plan with a monthly payment that was less than the amount Miss S had 
been paying at that point. I say this while especially mindful that CONC 6.7.33G(1) refers to 
the customers balance being repaid within a reasonable period and CONC 6.7.33G(2) 
refers to a reasonable period usually being between 3 and 4 years. 
Aqua appears to have selected the maximum period of time for Miss S paydown plan, 
where the most amount of interest would be paid, without any apparent justification for doing 
so. I appreciate that Aqua has said the method it has used to calculate Miss S paydown 
plan has been reviewed and agreed with the FCA. But even if the FCA might have 
considered the broad parameters of Aquas approach to calculating paydown plans, it wont 
have said that this approach would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in every situation 
and it most certainly wont have looked at the question of whether Aqua treated Miss S fairly 
and reasonably when imposing this specific paydown plan. 
Furthermore even though I accept that the amount of the selected monthly payment would 
ensure that there was an increase in the percentage of the outstanding principal Miss S paid 
each month as the balance reduced, nonetheless, the amount Miss S was being asked to 
pay each month was less than the amount of her contractual monthly payment in the 
previous four months and also less than the amount Miss S paid during this time. So I dont 
think that the payment plan and specifically the amount of the monthly payment was in accordance with the guidance in CONC 6.7.34G either. And Im satisfied that this means 
Aqua failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Miss S.  
As Ive explained, the rules refer to a reasonable period being between three and four years. 
A repayment plan at the same rate of interest over a three year, rather than four year, term 
would have resulted in increased monthly payments. I estimate increased payments of 
around £20-£25 a month more than what Miss S was paying in the lead-up to the paydown 
plan would have seen Miss S clear the balance within three years had the same interest rate 
been applied. And this would have also led to Miss S making a significant interest saving. 
Miss S monthly payments, prior to the paydown plan, were typically around the amount 
Aqua told her to pay on her monthly statements. Ive not seen anything persuasive to 
indicate that Miss S wouldnt have been able to pay the extra amount required to complete 
her paydown plan over three years instead of four years. In these circumstances, Im 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that had Miss S been presented with the option of a 
three year paydown plan with increased monthly payments, as I think she should have, in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way, she would have gone for this option instead of the four 
year plan Aqua automatically placed her on.
As this is the case and Miss S has gone on to and is being expected to pay more interest 
and charges on her persistent debt paydown plan. Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of Aqua failing to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And Im satisfied that Aqua 
now needs to put things right.   
Fair compensation  what Aqua needs to do to put things right for Miss S
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Miss S complaint, for Aqua to put things right in the following way:
rework Miss S account so that the total amount of interest added reflects what would 
have been added had her paydown plan been arranged over a three year term (at 
the same interest rate) rather than a four year term. The payments Miss S has made 
should then be deducted from the new total amount to be repaid; 
the payments Miss S has made so far have been with a view to repaying the balance 
over four years, rather than three years. So the payments made wont be enough for 
the balance to be cleared after three years. As this is the case, Aqua should either 
give Miss S the option of making up the shortfall over the remaining time that would 
have been left had the paydown plan been agreed over three years, or allow Miss S 
to make up the shortfall with additional payments (of the same amount) after the 
three years have ended without charging her any extra interest.
pay £75 in compensation as it has already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss S complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman