DRN-2797900
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas includes the loss adjuster it appointed.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points.
Mrs F got in touch with Ageas about a landslip problem. Soil had slipped down the 
embankment at the rear of her garden, towards the property boundary and road beyond. 
She later found out a nearby water pipe had been leaking. Ageas asked Mrs F to get a 
report from a surveyor about the cause of the problem, which she did.
The report said the landslip had been caused by the water leak. It recommended the leak be 
found and repaired and a wall built at the base of the bank. Ageas told Mrs F there might be 
cover for some of the problem  but not for the cost of repairing the leak.
Mrs F arranged to have the pipe replaced and provided quotes for resolving the landslip 
problem. After an inspection, Ageas declined the claim because there was no damage to the 
buildings. Mrs F was unhappy with this outcome and the way the claim had been handled.
Ageas maintained it was fair to decline the claim because landslip problems are only 
covered where theres damage to the buildings. But it accepted it should have handled the 
claim better and conceded it was responsible for some delays. It agreed to pay Mrs F for the 
surveyors report and offered £250 compensation.
Mrs F referred her complaint to this service. The investigator thought Ageas had fairly 
declined the claim because he wasnt persuaded there was any damage to the buildings. 
Mrs F disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Theres no dispute there was a landslip or that it was caused by a water leak.
Mrs F has resolved the water leak by replacing the pipe. I understand she accepts 
the cost of that isnt covered by the policy. Mrs F would like Ageas to pay for the 
landslip problem to be put right, including building the wall.
The policy covers loss or damage to the buildings caused by landslip. The word 
buildings means the main home and other things such as garden walls, hedges and 
fences. It doesnt include embankments, soil or the ground making up the garden. 
And things like garden walls, hedges or fences arent covered for landslip damage 
unless the main home is also damaged by landslip at the same time.
Its accepted Mrs Fs home wasnt damaged by landslip. Given the policy terms noted 
above, that means theres no cover under the landslip section of the policy.
The policy also covers loss or damage to the buildings caused by a water leak. 
Bearing in mind the meaning of the word buildings above, there would only be cover 
for a water leak if it caused damage to things like garden walls, hedges or fences.
Mrs F has said there may have been a wall at the rear of the garden, which would 
have been damaged when the soil slipped, as a result of the water leak. But it would 
be difficult to find out as it would now be under the fallen embankment. Shes 
provided photos and says nearby properties have small walls in similar positions.
Ive considered what Mrs F has said but Im not persuaded theres evidence of a wall. 
The surveyors report doesnt mention or indicate there was likely to have been a wall 
there prior to the landslip. Mrs F says it would be expensive to dig through the soil to 
show a wall was there. At some point, that material will need to be removed to 
resolve the problem. If a wall is found then, Mrs F will be able to provide evidence of 
that to Ageas and it should consider whether that changes the position of the claim.
I havent seen anything to show a fence was in place. And whilst theres vegetation in 
the area, its not clear it amounts to a hedge. And even if it did, it doesnt appear to 
have been damaged by the water leak.
Overall, based on the available information, Im satisfied Ageas acted fairly when it 
declined the claim.
Ageas has accepted it didnt handle Mrs Fs claim as well as it should have done. Its 
acknowledged it could have asked at a much earlier point in the claim whether there 
was any damage to her house. Had it done so, its likely Ageas would have declined 
Mrs Fs claim sooner.
That may have avoided Mrs F having to pay for a surveyors report. Ageas has 
refunded the cost of that report. I think that was the fair thing to do.
Its likely it would also have reduced the length of the claim and the time Mrs F spent 
in contact with Ageas  particularly the latter stages where Ageas has accepted it 
caused a delay. I also think Ageas could have been clearer with Mrs F about the 
extent of policy cover when she provided the surveyors report.
However, Im mindful that it wouldnt have changed the amount of time and effort 
Mrs F had to spend on the water leak problem. And its likely she would have needed 
to obtain quotes and guidance about resolving the landslip problem even if the claim 
had concluded earlier.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied Mrs F was caused unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience by Ageas. I consider the £250 compensation Ageas has offered 
to be reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman