DRN-2830095
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about HDI Global Specialty SEs handling of a subsidence claim made
under her home insurance policy.
All references to HDI include its appointed agents.
What happened
 Around August 2018, Mrs W noticed some cracking in her property. She notified HDI who
arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property.
The loss adjuster concluded the cause of damage was subsidence and most likely linked to
clay shrinkage in the soil. They said this was made worse by the amount of surrounding
vegetation in Mrs Ws garden and recommended Mrs W remove it.
Mrs W arranged for the vegetation to be removed and a period of monitoring commenced.
Mrs W says she was advised by the loss adjuster not to start the repair works until the
cracks had stabilised. Mrs W was also told the repairs would be minor and likely to be less
than her policy excess, so she agreed to get the repair work done herself and not claim.
The cracking was deemed to be stable in early 2019, and Mrs W received a Certificate of
Structural Adequacy (COSA) from the loss adjuster dated 21 February 2019. Mrs W says
she was told to wait another couple of months before starting repairs  until the end of May
2019  to make sure the water table had returned to its normal level.
Around the same time Mrs Ws policy was up for renewal. Mrs W received an email from her
insurance intermediary (S) which said it was unable to offer renewal terms until it had
received confirmation about whether the proposed repairs to her property had been carried
out, the propertys overall state of repair, and if Mrs W had received a COSA. 
Mrs W complained to HDI. She said she was unhappy it hadnt offered her renewal terms
and said she had followed the loss adjusters instructions in waiting to start the repair works.
So it was unfair to withhold an offer of renewal on this basis.
HDI responded to Mrs W. It said Mrs Ws policy was administered by S who looked for
competitive quotes from its panel of insurers. HDI confirmed it had considered offering a
renewal quote, but it wasnt competitive and as such wasnt offered to Mrs W by S. HDI also
said it wasnt responsible for S email regarding the state of the property, or what renewal
quotes it decided to provide her, so it referred Mrs W back to S for these matters.
Mrs W was unhappy with HDIs response and referred the complaint to our service. She said
she had struggled to get someone to do the repair work to her property and remained
unhappy with the circumstances surrounding her renewal.
After the complaint was referred to our service, HDI provided a further final response
addressing Mrs Ws concerns around the handling of the claim. HDI concluded it had
handled the claim fairly but acknowledged that Mrs W now had second thoughts about not
claiming for the repair costs. HDI therefore said it would be willing to re-open the claim if
Mrs W wanted it to do the repairs.
Mrs W asked HDI to help complete the repairs and the works were done. But she remained
concerned about the renewal of her policy and not having subsidence cover in the future.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They
found Mrs W shouldnt have been required to remove the vegetation, and that HDIs overall
approach to the claim had shown a lack of care. They concluded that had HDI removed the
vegetation and then managed the rest of the claim, including the repairs, it would have
reduced the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs W. Our investigator also found there
to be no benefit to Mrs W stopping the claim when she did on HDIs advice.
To put things right, our investigator recommended HDI reimburse Mrs W for any costs
incurred above her £1,000 excess, including the costs for vegetation removal. They also
recommended HDI offer renewal terms to include subsidence cover and pay Mrs W £700 for
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs W agreed with our investigators findings. HDI disagreed in part. In summary it said:
As Mrs W had withdrawn the subsidence claim, it wasnt obliged to offer renewal
terms in line with the industry practice.
It disputed the loss adjuster told Mrs W that the repairs would be less than the policy
excess. Rather, they confirmed the damage caused by subsidence was limited and
given most of the costs were for redecoration Mrs W agreed to arrange these repairs
herself.
The vegetation removal could be considered preventative works but in any event, it
hadnt received any evidence of works done or costs incurred by Mrs W to consider
for reimbursement.
That whilst Mrs Ws policy now had a subsidence marker, she would have benefitted
from not claiming by keeping her No Claims Discount (NCD).
Following our investigators view, Mrs W submitted her repair costs and was reimbursed by
HDI for the areas it had identified as affected by subsidence. HDI also reinstated Mrs Ws
policy cover to include subsidence.
As the matter of compensation remained unresolved, the matter was passed to me and on 
11 May 2021 I set out my provisional findings on the complaint. Ive included an extract 
below:
Ive first considered the vegetation removal works which HDIs loss adjuster recommended
after the first visit to the property. Ive read a follow up report from the loss adjuster dated
November 2018 which states I am pleased to note that you have dealt with most of the
vegetation within theoretical affecting distance and intend to deal with that which remains.
I think this shows that the responsibility of dealing with the initial vegetation removal fell to
Mrs W, and this is also supported by her testimony. And whilst I accept that ongoing
maintenance of vegetation would fall under preventative measures, our services approach is
that in order to carry out an effective and lasting repair the insurer (in the case HDI) must
fully put right the damage and do so for the appropriate amount of time. And at the start of a
subsidence claim it isnt possible to do this without first stopping any current ongoing
movement.
The loss adjusters report from February 2019 indicate the cracks stopped moving after the
vegetation was dealt with and stated, I was able to confirm that the main external crack hadvisibly closed. So, it seems to me that removing the vegetation was linked to stopping the
current ongoing movement and as such all related costs should be borne by HDI.
Ive considered Mrs Ws decision to withdraw the claim after the mitigation works were done,
and whether HDIs advice induced her to do this unfairly. Having done so, I dont find HDIs
advice unreasonable based on the information it had at the time. I say this because the
cause of the damage had been identified and mitigated in what I consider a reasonable
timeframe. And I accept that the loss adjusters advice was based on the overall costs of the
repair against Mrs Ws excess and impact to her NCD. I dont think HDI could have
reasonably foreseen that Mrs W would struggle to find a contractor to complete the repairs.
So whilst I acknowledge this would have caused Mrs W some upset, I cant hold HDI
responsible for any actions of a third-party contractor.
However, I think that had Mrs W understood the impact to her policy renewal of withdrawing
her claim when she did, I think it is more likely than not she would have chosen to continue
with the claim and as such ensured a continuation of subsidence cover. As the insurer, HDI
would have known at this stage of the claim that Mrs W would receive a subsidence marker
in any event, and that this would most likely restrict her access to other policies at renewal
which would offer her subsidence cover. So whilst this part of the complaint appears to have
been resolved now with the reinstatement of cover, I think the impact to Mrs W could have
been mitigated had she been made aware of this before making her decision.
Mrs W has said in her submission she is now considered an unsuitable client for insurance
and will have limited access to the insurance market as a result of having a subsidence
marker on her file. And I do understand the point she is making here. But having considered
everything, I find that regardless of whether HDI or a third-party carried out the repairs, the
subsidence marker would still apply to Mrs Ws property based on it being the main cause of
damage in this claim. So, I dont think Mrs W is in a worse off position as a result of HDIs
actions and I dont intend to make any further award in relation to her level of cover. But I will
consider the distress and inconvenience this caused around the renewal of her policy.
I can see that through the course of our investigation, HDI has reopened the claim in good
faith and reimbursed Mrs W for the additional costs she incurred on top of her excess, rather
than wait for our services final decision. And I can see that it also assisted in finding an
appropriate contractor for Mrs W when she struggled to find one herself. Therefore I dont
agree that HDI has shown a lack of care here, and as a result I find our investigators
overall recommendation for compensation to be more than I believe is reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
However, that isnt to say there werent any aspects of this claim which could have been
handled better in the circumstances. I say this with reference to Mrs W being responsible for
removing the vegetation. As Ive set out above I think this should have been HDIs
responsibility at the start of the claim and as such this caused Mrs W some unnecessary
distress and inconvenience.
Mrs W says that she dealt with some of this work herself and as such I dont think its either
possible or reasonable for her to try and evidence her own involvement now. But I do think
this should be factored into any compensation award. HDI says it hasnt received evidence
from Mrs W of any further costs she incurred in removing the vegetation, but if she can
provide them I would expect HDI to reimburse her for this.Taking everything into account, I propose Mrs W is compensated £200 for her direct
involvement in removing the vegetation. And I think it would be reasonable for HDI to
compensate her an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact
to Mrs W of arranging these works as part of the claim, and for the upset caused around the
renewal of her policy.
Developments
HDI responded and said it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Mrs W 
responded and said in summary:
The recommended vegetation removal in the garden was extensive as it included 
removing all the conifer trees, the hedging before the front windows and reducing the 
privet hedge at the rear.
That during this period she was in very poor health and struggled to deal with the 
impact of the decimation of the garden in as cost-effective manner as possible and 
relied on the help of friends and neighbours.
The general renovation of the garden areas impacted has been costly and is still 
ongoing work.
She had been left to fend for herself on this claim and didnt know what was required 
at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the detail Mrs W has provided in her response. I am satisfied that most of the 
issues raised have been covered in my provisional decision. I will now address any 
additional points below. 
I understand the point Mrs W is making about the extensive works in the garden. And I have 
no doubt that removing this amount of vegetation which she had cultivated for so many 
years would have been distressing for her. But I havent seen anything to show the advice 
provided by the loss adjuster to remove it was incorrect. Rather events show that the cracks 
stabilised and closed once this was done. So its likely that the vegetation would have 
needed removing in any event in order for the claim to progress.
I set out HDIs responsibilities for removing the vegetation in my provisional decision. And 
our service wouldnt expect an insurer to be liable for ongoing mitigation of the vegetation. 
So I can only consider compensation for the works that took place prior to the monitoring.
Therefore my provisional award remains as set out for the impact on Mrs W of removing the 
vegetation directly. But without further evidence of costs I am unable to award anymore 
here. However I provided a direction that if Mrs W can evidence further vegetation removal 
costs from prior to the monitoring period then HDI must reimburse it, and this remains so in 
my final decision.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws latest response and re-considered the impact to her of the 
claim. And having done so Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs W, HDI must:
Reimburse Mrs W for any additional costs she incurred in removing any trees or 
vegetation prior to the period of monitoring, subject to proof of invoices;
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum, from the date the invoices were paid to the date 
of settlement;
Pay Mrs W a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about HDI Global Specialty SE and it must 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman