DRN-2496519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they were mis-sold a protection policy in 2000. They say that 
when they sought additional mortgage lending, they were told it would be easier to obtain if 
they agreed to a life and critical illness policy that they didnt want or need. 
To resolve their complaint, they want ReAssure Limited to recognise that the policy has been 
mis-sold and compensate them accordingly.  
What happened
ReAssure accepts responsibility for the complaint, as it took over Barclays Life policies in 
2008. 
Mr T first set out his and Mrs Ts concerns to Barclays in September 2019, noting that he felt 
the policy might have been payment protection insurance (PPI). 
He explained that they had gone to a Barclays (then Woolwich) branch to raise an additional 
£31,000 mortgage, alongside their existing lending of £63,700. He said they held an 
endowment savings policy for the first borrowing. However, the branch staff passed Mr and 
Mrs T to a protection adviser because it was necessary to have a term assurance policy 
alongside the new mortgage application for the outstanding £31,000 sum assured. Mr T also 
said that after underwriting the policy premiums increased unnecessarily for Mrs T after an 
assessment of her parents medical history. 
Mr T also explained that both he and Mrs T had long employment histories of working in 
public sector employment with contractual sick pay and death in service benefits. 
Barclays originally replied to Mr T noting that he and Mrs T didnt have any PPI policies. The 
complaint was then passed to ReAssure. In July 2019, it rejected the complaint. It said that it 
felt protection was a financial priority for Mr and Mrs T at the time, and their death in service 
benefits did not replicate the cover provided for by the policy, for example, there was no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs T had any other critical illness cover. 
Further, ReAssure said that the amendment of the premium on underwriting was reasonable 
in the circumstances. If Mr and Mrs T had any concerns about that, they could have raised 
them at the time. Similarly, they could have cancelled the policy at any point, but instead 
they paid the policy premiums for the cover until it ended in 2013.  
Mr T brought his and Mrs Ts complaint to this service. He said the supposed fact find 
information ReAssure had provided was markedly wrong  it said Mr and Mrs T had two 
children when theyd only ever had one child, and that Mrs T was a housewife, when she 
had been working continually since 1983. He said it also made a series of inaccuracies 
regarding the values of their income, existing liabilities and protection arrangements. 
An investigator considered the complaint but he did not think it ought to succeed. He said 
that despite the provisions Mr and Mrs T said they had in place, there was still a shortfall in 
their cover. He also felt that though both Mr and Mrs T had employment benefits including 
life cover, this was not guaranteed. In his view, ReAssure had reasonably proposed a policy 
that was a best fit for their joint mortgage liability.  
Mr T said he and Mrs T did not agree with the investigators conclusions. They said that they 
wanted the complaint to be re-examined. 
They said, in summary, that:
their main point is that that they had suitable protection through substantial workplace 
benefits rendering the cover unnecessary;
the policy was clearly sold as a condition of their mortgage lending being approved;
ReAssure has merely chosen to side with the actions of the Woolwich/Barclays 
adviser despite Mr and Mrs T being able to evidence that the majority of the fact find 
information was false;
the Financial Ombudsman Service should be set up to pay scrutiny to this, since 
otherwise businesses can merely walk away from responsibilities as long as some 
information is recorded, even if the information is wrong;
they dispute they signed any documentation at the time of the sale;
a balanced appraisal isnt possible without a fair re-examination of the evidence;
they reiterate that they were unduly pressured to take out insurance that they did not 
want or need, so as to be able to take out mortgage lending  this was purely a 
commercial move on the Woolwichs part. 
The investigator supplied Mr and Mrs T with a copy of the signed fact find information from 
the time of the sale. However, Mr T said he believed the signatures were not his and Mrs Ts 
 his was a poor copy and Mrs Ts looked completely different. He said their view was that 
the advisers actions were potentially fraudulent. 
To that end, Mr T supplied a personal financial information questionnaire from five years 
previously that had been completed with the Woolwich he said this had the correct 
information on about their circumstances. On that form Mr T said that Mrs Ts signature was 
different. He said as far as he could see, the reason for the difference was simple - the 
information in the document used by ReAssure now has been invented either at the time the 
policy was mis-sold or been fabricated now. That is because he and Mrs T would never have 
signed a document that is incorrect, so it must have been copied.    
 
ReAssure said that Mr T had said his employment was incorrect but actually the adviser had 
simply recorded an acronym of his job title, which was confused with the name of the 
employer. Further, looking at the questionnaire Mr and Mrs T supplied to ReAssure at the 
start of the complaint, the length of service of Mr Ts job tallied with that recorded by the 
adviser  though Mr T had said otherwise. Finally, the sums assured of Mr and Mrs Ts 
existing provisions were also correct, which had been otherwise disputed by Mr T. 
It also said that whilst Mr T held some concerns about alleged inaccuracies in the 
documentation, the fact remained that Mr and Mrs T were taking out additional lending and 
the recommendation was suitable for them in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs T could 
otherwise have sought their lending elsewhere if so required.  
Another investigator reconsidered the complaint. He said that the first investigators 
conclusions were correct. He noted that signatures may change over time; though Mr T had 
raised issues with the fact find, this did not render the sale of the policy unreasonable.  
Mr T said he and Mrs T still disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. They made a number of further submissions:signatures do not change substantially over the years;
however, more concerning is that the person completing the documentation has 
fabricated information such as the number of children they had and that Mrs T was 
actually in work;
the argument for the insurance was made because only Mr T was recorded as being 
in employment;
if they had been presented with that false information at the time of the sale they 
wouldnt have signed it;
he would think that this service would make findings on the fraudulent behaviour 
such as this.   
ReAssure had nothing further to add. The complaint has now been passed to me.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I do not believe this complaint 
ought to succeed. I know Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly about this matter, but for the 
reasons Ill explain, I do not consider the recommendation was unreasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Ts recollection and I realise they say they hadnt 
seen or signed the fact find information thats been provided now. However, whilst this 
evidence is something I take into account, I must also weigh up ReAssures version of 
events as well as any other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from the 
time of the sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most 
likely, on the balance of probabilities.
As it is, very little documentation exists from sale in 2000, given the passage of time and the 
fact that it was sold by a different business. As a result there is no specific evidence of what 
the parties discussed aside from the one fact find document  and Mr T holds concerns 
about its legitimacy.  
I dont accept that it is my role to decide the authenticity of the fact find document. I do note 
that it has Mr Ts signature on (which matches other evidence unrelated to this sale that he 
has supplied) and a marginally different version of Mrs Ts signature. I also recognise that 
some of the details are incorrect on that document, or missing altogether  for example in 
the case of Mrs Ts employment. However, it does contain accurate figures about the new 
mortgage liability and righty set out there was a shortfall of £31,000, for which Mr and Mrs T 
required a remortgage. It is recorded that Mr and Mrs T declined financial advice other than 
protection for that remortgage. 
I cannot say with certainty what happened in June 2000 in respect of the signatures as there 
is no other contemporaneous or demonstrable evidence of what went on at the meeting. But, 
I dont believe I need to make a finding about the signatures in order to reach a fair and 
reasonable determination of the complaint that this policy was mis-sold. 
Even if I were to disregard the fact find document altogether, I dont find that the proposal 
was unreasonable. The policy that Mrs and Mr T took out was a suitable one for the adviser 
to have recommended insofar as it matched the amount of their lending, the agreed term and it was set up to decrease broadly in line with the capital repayment mortgage (as 
opposed to a level term assurance policy where the sum assured remains the same). 
Mr T argues that the recommendation cannot be suitable if it was based on an absence of 
Mrs Ts income and their combined death in service benefits. But I disagree. Death in 
service benefits do not provide the same security as a life and critical illness policy, where 
the premiums are maintained throughout the life of that policy. It is the case that a persons 
job can be involuntarily lost, for example by means of redundancy. Even if Mrs Ts income 
was correctly recorded, there was a shortfall of life and critical illness cover for the new 
lending. Protection against debts in the event of death or serious illness is not an 
unreasonable step to take, particularly where applicants have a documented financial liability 
and in Mr and Mrs Ts case, a dependant child. 
I note that Mr T said that he and Mrs T were told by the adviser that they needed to take out 
the cover to secure the mortgage lending, but I have seen no clear evidence of that. The 
mortgage offer information Mr T has supplied doesnt set that out. It strongly recommends 
considering payment protection insurance for monthly repayments but makes no mention of 
insurances that were a condition of the lending. 
Im also mindful that the meeting with Woolwichs adviser took place on 8 June 2000 (based 
on the fact find document), and the policy didnt come into force until August 2000. 
Moreover, the Woolwich wrote to Mr and Mrs T on 28 June 2000 about the increase of £2.92 
extra monthly premium based on Mrs Ts family history. If Mr and Mrs T had wished to seek 
their lending elsewhere, they had ample time in which to do so and/or they could have 
declined to proceed with the offer of insurance. 
The policy ran for its entire term and so, Mr or Mrs T could reasonably have pursued a claim 
under the policy if required. As such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to be 
returned to them when those premiums paid for insurance that ReAssure (previously the 
Woolwich/Barclays) has reasonably provided.  
My final decision
Though I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T, I cannot uphold this 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman