DRN-3247653
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service provided by A J Bell Management Limited, trading as AJ
Bell Investcentre, referred to as AJ Bell or the transferee.
In short, hes unhappy that it failed to cancel his transfer request when instructed to do so,
as a result of which hes suffered a financial loss.
 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 24 November 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint.
Im aware that AJ Bell accepts that it behaved unreasonably but doesnt accept that its
wholly responsible for all the losses suffered by Mr R and has proposed redress to cover
50% of his losses. Therefore, the key issue for me to consider is redress, and the extent to
which AJ Bell is liable for the losses suffered by Mr R.
Having done so, for the record I also think AJ Bell behaved unreasonably by failing to act on
Mr Rs instructions to cancel the transfer request. In other words, I think it erroneously
processed the transfer without his appropriate authority.
In the circumstances I think AJ Bell should pay for 50% of the loss of value/shortfall of units,
plus £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr R.
I also make clear that in this decision Im only considering the actions of AJ Bell, and not the
transferor, despite the obvious connection to this complaint. In other words, a complaint
against AJ Bell doesnt allow me to make a decision about the transferors actions, which I
Ive considered and upheld separately.
Theres no dispute that on 11 March 2020 Mr Rs IFA notified AJ Bell that he wished to
cancel his instructions to transfer, and that prior to this hed also notified the transferor.
By this point AJ Bell had requested and received a valuation of Mr Rs assets, but it wasnt
too late to cancel the transfer. Im aware that the transferor was waiting for AJ Bells
instructions to progress matters.
Theres no dispute that despite Mr Rs earlier instructions to cancel, on 13 March 2020 AJ
Bell (erroneously) sent the transferor its acceptance of the valuation and instructions to
disinvest Mr Rs assets.
In due course, on 16 March 2020 Mr Rs assets were disinvested and the cash was duly
transferred to AJ Bell. I note it wasnt until 7 April 2020, that the transferor reinstated Mr Rs
ISA. But because of market movements in the meantime, the transferor had to buy fewer
units with the cash provided.
In the circumstances, and on balance, in light of my decision against the transferor, Im
satisfied that AJ Bell isnt wholly responsible for this error and is therefore is liable to cover
only 50% of the losses suffered by Mr R.
In terms of redress, principally there appears to be two heads of loss that need to be
addressed. Firstly, the shortfall of shares that Mr R would otherwise have had but for the
error and secondly, the lost ISA status.
So, to put things right AJ Bell should do the following:
1. Work out (and agree with the transferor) the shortfall of shares, using the date of 16
March 2020 (when the funds were disinvested) and the date of 7 April 2020 (when
the funds were reinvested).
2. Pay 50% of the cost of the transferor repurchasing the missing shares.
3. Liaise with HMRC (or possibly assist the transferor in doing so) to have these shares
exceptionally transferred to Mr Rs ISA. 
4. If it isnt possible to transfer the shares to the ISA  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
it isnt  AJ Bell should pay 50% of the missed stocks and shares allowance on those
shares.
5. Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wanted me to consider before making my decision. 
Its useful to mention at this stage that the transferor  against whom Mr R has an identical 
complaint that I have upheld  responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Having done so, the transferor has also volunteered to calculate and initially pay Mr R the 
full redress provided AJ Bell agrees to pay it back half of that redress. 
In short, the transferor said:
Ive completed the calculations necessary to put Mr R (name anonymised) in the right 
position  see attached.
Its not a straight forward situation as the customers investments have now been transferred 
to a third-party business (name anonymised), as weve recently sold our Personal Investing 
business to them. We have a relationship with the third-party business, so I can liaise with 
them on how I can get the units added to the customers investment. Were only liable for 
50% as youve outlined. However, in the best interests of the customer it would be better if 
we could add 100% of the units at once. The transferee are prepared to do this and initially 
pay for 100%.
However, before we do this well need confirmation from A J Bell that theyll then pay us 50% 
of the cost
At my request, AJ Bell was asked to consider the transferors proposal. Having done so, it 
accepted the proposal. However, it said that it would like to be involved with the calculations. 
In summary, it said:
Whilst we are happy to agree to returning 50% of the loss paid by the transferor (name 
anonymised) in practice, we would also wish to liaise with them regarding the calculations to 
ensure that they are inline with our own. We would be reluctant to agree to cover 50% of the 
losses, without any involvement or prior knowledge of the total their calculation reached.I am happy for you to pass on my details to the transferor, with our email address to allow 
them to share their calculations with us prior to our final agreement.
Im aware that AJ Bells details have been on passed to the transferor for this purpose. 
Mr R also responded and said that he was content with my provisional uphold and proposed 
course of action.  
Although he initially had numerous observations about my provisional redress methodology, 
at my request Mr R was asked to consider the proposal by the transferor. 
Having done so, Mr R agreed with the proposed course of action. He feels its the most 
simple and straightforward way of reinstating his ISA to the position it would be in but for the 
error. He also wanted confirmation that this wouldnt count against this years ISA allowance. 
In response to Mr Rs query, the transferor confirmed the following: 
No any corrective action wont impact this years ISA allowance. Once its complete Ill 
confirm it all in writing for Mr R (name anonymised).
Its on this basis Ive gone on to consider my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the absence of any objections, my decision remains the same as set out 
in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
I still think AJ Bell should pay Mr R for 50% of the shortfall of units, plus £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, to put things right, I still think AJ Bell should do the following:
1. Work out (and agree with the transferor) the shortfall of shares, using the date of 16
March 2020 (when the funds were disinvested) and the date of 7 April 2020 (when 
the funds were reinvested).
2. Cover 50% of the cost of the repurchasing the missing shares.
3. Liaise with HMRC to have these shares exceptionally transferred to Mr Rs ISA.
4. If it isnt possible to transfer the shares to the ISA  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
it isnt  L&G should pay 50% of the missed stocks and shares allowance on those 
shares.
5. Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
For practicality and simplicity, Im aware that the transferor has proposed to calculate and 
initially pay Mr R 100% of the cost, on the basis that AJ Bell will reimburse the transferor 
50% of that. Im mindful that AJ Bell is content to do so but would like to be involved in the 
calculations, which the transferor would encourage. 
Considering AJ Bells positive response, Ive no objections to the transferor working out and 
paying redress in this way, and I see no reason why the two businesses cant be left to work 
out this issue between them. Im mindful of Mr Rs comments. In the last sentence of my provisional decision I erroneously 
referred to AJ Bell as the transferor, rather than the transferee  it was a typo and I 
apologise for the overtight. 
Mr R also clarified that he contacted the transferor, and not the IFA, as I had suggested in 
the latter part of my provisional decision. Im grateful to Mr R for the clarification. Neither of 
the points mentioned affect the outcome of this decision. 
Putting things right
A J Bell Management Limited, trading as AJ Bell Investcentre, should do the following:
1. Work out (and agree with the transferor) the shortfall of shares, using the date of 16
March 2020 (when the funds were disinvested) and the date of 7 April 2020 (when 
the funds were reinvested).
2. Cover 50% of the cost of the repurchasing the missing shares.
3. Liaise with HMRC to have these shares exceptionally transferred to Mr Rs ISA.
4. If it isnt possible to transfer the shares to the ISA  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
it isnt  L&G should pay 50% of the missed stocks and shares allowance on those 
shares.
5. Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
A J Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Investcentre, referred
to as AJ Bell or the transferee should work out and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman