DRN-4050704
The complaint
Mr H complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car wouldnt start so he contacted a garage to diagnose the fault. The garage said the 
ECU was flooded and this was likely due to the excessive rain. Because of this Mr H 
contacted AXA to claim for the damage. 
There were some delays with AXA assessing the claim but ultimately AXA rejected the claim 
as it said it wasnt covered. It said the damage was limited to the ECU being water damaged 
and that it had occurred over a period of time. Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained. 
He said there had been heavy rain and this had caused the water damage to the ECU. He 
also complained about AXAs handling of the claim and the courtesy car which had been 
provided. He asked AXA to cover the hire car costs hed incurred as he needed a like for like 
car. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the ECU had corrosion which had 
occurred over a long period of time and so maintained its position that the claim had been 
fairly declined. AXA also said it had to investigate the claim and thought a month was a 
reasonable time to do so. It also said it had met its requirements under the policy by 
providing the courtesy car. 
Mr H didnt agree and referred his complaint here. He said the corrosion had occurred 
between the date of the claim and when AXA assessed it and referred to the two garages 
who had inspected his car. He also didnt think AXA had progressed his claim as well as it 
should have and said it had taken too long to provide the courtesy car and that hed had to 
hire a like for like car for a holiday he had booked. 
When the complaint was referred here AXA revised its position and agreed the claim could 
have been handled better. It offered Mr H £100 compensation for the poor claim handling 
which Mr H didnt accept. Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it in part. He 
thought AXA had acted fairly by declining the claim but recommended it pay Mr H £200 for 
the poor claim handling. However, he didnt think AXA should cover the hire car costs as 
even if AXA had progressed the claim quicker, Mr H would have still needed to hire a like for 
like car for the holiday he needed it for.  
AXA accepted our Investigators outcome, Mr H didnt. He said AXA should honour the claim 
as it related to water damage due to the heavy rain and also thought AXA should cover the 
hire car costs hed incurred. 
As Mr H didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has a comprehensive motor insurance policy which covers him for accidental damage, 
fire and theft. AXA has said it doesnt think the claim is covered as the water has been 
getting into the ECU for some time, which Mr H disputes. 
Ive seen AXAs engineers comments which say:
Water leak in vehicle has been present for sometime based on images provide [sic] and the 
corroded ecu is the probable cause as to why the vehicle is a non runner, looks to be wear 
and tear and not an actual claim
Mr Hs policy also excludes damage for wear and tear, however, Mr H disputes AXAs 
engineers comments and has provided statements from the two garages who assessed his 
car. One report says:
I would deduce that the ECU was damaged with rain/flood water
The other report says:
The ecus position in this car is designed to take moisture but in my opinion this ecu was 
most definitely submerged for a period of time.
When considering all of the reports and comments, they all agree water has got into the 
ECU. However, when reading them all it appears this is something which has happened over 
a period of time. Im therefore not going to interfere with AXAs decision to decline the claim 
due to wear and tear. 
Ive also considered AXAs poor claim handling and I agree with our investigator that AXA 
hasnt handled this claim as well as it should have. There has been delays caused by AXA 
and considering the damage to Mr Hs car it took too long to decline his claim. This caused 
Mr H unnecessary distress and inconvenience as he had to chase up what was happening 
on several occasions. To compensate Mr H for this Im satisfied £200 is a fair and 
reasonable amount. 
In regard to the hire car, Ive considered Mr Hs comments but Im not going to tell AXA to do 
anything else. This is because while I understand AXA has handled the claim poorly, as the 
claim isnt covered by the policy then he wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car. I can also see 
that if AXA had made its decision sooner, Mr H would still have needed to hire a like for like 
car for his holiday due to the length of time the repair to his car took. Im therefore not going 
to tell AXA to do anything else. 
Ive also noted that Mr H has said that in the last few days hes become aware of a claim 
being recorded for this incident by AXA, which has affected his insurance at renewal. As this 
is a new issue which wasnt originally referred here, I cant consider it in this decision. 
Therefore, if Mr H thinks AXA has recorded the claim incorrectly, he would need to raise it 
with AXA first. If he's then unhappy with AXAs decision hed be able to refer it here to be 
investigated if he wished too.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr H £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman