DRN-4122325
The complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Limited would not let him continue making contributions into 
his personal pension past his selected retirement date and says this has caused him 
financial loss as well as distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr T has a personal pension with ReAssure. He originally took out the pension in 1988 with 
another firm, but the business was later taken over by ReAssure. 
In March 2020 ReAssure sent a wake-up letter and options pack ahead of Mr Ts selected 
retirement date of 6 September 2020. ReAssure sent a follow up letter in June. In August 
Mr T called ReAssure asking about policy charges. ReAssure sent a reply with information 
including the relevant charges.
Mr T called ReAssure again on 22 March 2021. He wanted to increase his monthly 
contributions, but ReAssure said he couldnt make further contributions into the policy and 
the contributions had stopped on his selected retirement date. Mr T was unhappy with this 
and made a complaint.
On 26 March 2021 Mr T called again, asking to restart his monthly contributions and make a 
one-off contribution to cover the payments missed since his retirement date. The call handler 
said he could do this and he agreed to make an initial payment of £5,280 followed by £500 
per month, starting from April 2021. He sent a payment of £5,280.
In May 2021 ReAssure sent a letter explaining that Mr T wasnt able to make further 
payments into his existing policy. ReAssure offered to open a top-up policy which would run 
alongside the existing one, enclosing an application form for this, and sent a final response 
to the complaint. ReAssure apologised for the service Mr T had received and paid 
compensation of £125, but said he couldnt pay into the existing policy. ReAssure said it 
would process the top-up policy once Mr T returned the completed application form.
Mr T then referred his complaint to this service. In the meantime, in November 2021 he told 
ReAssure he had sent the single contribution of £5,280 in March 2021, and hadnt received 
its letter dated 18 May 2021. ReAssure asked Mr T to provide a copy of his bank statement 
showing the payment but he didnt wish to do that. 
In December 2021 ReAssure told Mr T it had located the payment and would pay this into 
the top-up policy once it was open, backdating it to the date of receipt. Mr T confirmed he 
had received the application form but didnt want to open a top-up policy; he wanted the 
money paid into the existing policy and wanted to pay £500 every month into that policy.
In January 2022 ReAssure asked Mr T to confirm if he wished to proceed with the top-up 
policy and said if it didnt hear within 15 working days it would refund the payment. Mr T said 
he wanted to add his payment to the existing plan. In March ReAssure asked Mr T to provide 
a copy of his bank statement to process the refund but he said he wanted the single 
contribution added to his existing plan, not refunded.
ReAssure opened a top-up policy and added the payment into this. In October 2022 it  
offered an additional compensation payment of £200 (having already paid £150) but Mr T 
rejected the offer.
When our investigator considered the complaint they said there had been delays and poor 
communication but the offer of a further £200 in addition to the £125 paid already was fair. 
Mr T disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Contributions into the existing pension
The starting point is the terms and conditions. Mr T says the terms allow him to make 
changes to contributions to suit his financial circumstances and hes done that in the past.  I 
agree Mr T had the option to change his contributions to suit his needs, and had the option 
of continuing some or all of the arrangements and to make contributions if he wished to defer 
taking benefits beyond his selected retirement date. But Ive also taken into account relevant 
guidance that when a consumer is approaching retirement, a pension provider needs to 
send to the consumer a wake-up letter at least four months before they reach their selected 
retirement date, and a follow up letter at least six weeks before that date. 
These letters are intended to inform the consumer of their retirement options. ReAssure sent 
these letters to Mr T. They confirm his selected retirement date was 6 September 2020. 
They also say You can usually continue to pay into your ReAssure pension until youre 75. 
Well stop collecting contributions on your selected retirement date, so if you want to make 
payments past then (and youre under age 75) youll need to let us know.
So Im satisfied ReAssure informed Mr T in advance that it would stop collecting  
contributions on 6 September 2020, unless he said in advance that he wanted to make 
payments after that date.
Mr T called ReAssure on 4 August 2020. He says he wanted to increase the monthly 
contributions and make a single payment. We dont have a recording of this call but the call 
notes made at the time show he asked about charges and how making a contribution or 
increasing annual contributions might affect the charges. ReAssure replied to this query.
The notes show the next time Mr T called ReAssure was on 22 March 2021, and this was 
the first time he asked about increasing his contributions and making a payment. In May 
2021, ReAssure explained that he couldnt make contributions into the existing policy but it 
could open a top-up policy which would run alongside and wouldnt incur extra charges.
ReAssure didnt prevent Mr T from continuing to make contributions, but said hed need to 
do this by opening a top-up policy. This allowed him to make further payments. ReAssure 
has explained that the new policy is run in such a way that theres no disadvantage to Mr T 
(such as additional charges). While it did require him to open a separate policy, the 
inconvenience caused by this was limited to completing an application form. 
ReAssure has explained this was necessary because of limits on its systems  as his policy 
was originally administered in the old providers systems. If a customer wishes to continue 
making contributions beyond their selected retirement date, ReAssure arranges this through the top-up policy. This applies to all their customers in the same position. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont think Mr T was treated unfairly. Opening a top up 
plan would have effectively put him in the same position he wanted to be in.
Service and delays 
ReAssure has accepted Mr T was given unclear or inaccurate information on a number of 
occasions. I dont need to set everything out in full, but examples include:
In the call on 22 March 2021, the call handler correctly said Mr T couldnt make 
further contributions into the existing plan but didnt mention that he could continue 
making contributions by opening a top-up policy. 
On 26 March 2021 he was incorrectly told he could make further contributions. Based 
on this, Mr T sent a payment of £5,280.
ReAssure received the payment on 27 March 2021 but then held it for several 
months without getting in touch with Mr T.
On the other hand, in May 2021 ReAssure sent a letter confirming Mr T couldnt make 
contributions into his existing policy but could do so through a top-up policy. It provided an 
application form and all the information he needed to open a new policy.
Mr T says he didnt receive a number of letters, including the follow-up letter dated 29 June 
2020 and the letter dated 18 May 2021. But they were addressed correctly so ReAssure 
wasnt at fault in relation to this.
ReAssure located Mr Ts payment in its account in December 2021. He didnt want a refund 
of the payment as he wanted the money paid it into his existing plan, but ReAssure told him 
repeatedly that wasnt possible. ReAssure then opened a top-up policy and the money was 
paid into this policy, backdated to the date it had received the payment.  ReAssure also 
confirmed the offer of a top-up policy in its final response in May 2021 and Mr T has 
confirmed he did receive that letter. 
Its clear there were errors and ReAssure should have explained more clearly why it couldnt  
accept further contributions into the existing policy. Mr T made several phone calls trying to 
resolve this matter. I appreciate he found this frustrating. But as Ive said, Reassure did 
clarify things and sent letters to Mr T. 
Mr T says he suffered a financial loss, particularly because the stock market has gone up 
since August 2020  not being able to make contributions meant he lost out on this growth. 
While I appreciate he may have lost out due to not making further contributions, I dont agree 
there are losses for which ReAssure is responsible. ReAssure informed Mr T in advance of 
his retirement date that it would stop taking contributions from that date. After he said he 
wished to re-start contributions, ReAssure gave him the option to open a top-up policy. The 
information it provided about this confirmed he would have been able to make regular and 
single contributions and would have been eligible for tax relief. 
I know he didnt want to open a top-up policy and wanted to continue to pay into his existing 
policy. But ReAssure provided information on how to continue to make pension 
contributions, and paying into the top-up policy instead of the existing plan wouldnt have 
caused any detriment. It was for Mr T to decide whether he wanted to do that.
Looking at things overall, I think compensation of £350 is a fair reflection of the distress 
caused to Mr T by the way things were handled. ReAssure has already paid £150 so it 
should now pay the further £200 offered.My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay a further £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay £200 to Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman