DRN-2856683
The complaint
Miss D and Mr N complain about the treatment theyve received from their mortgage lender,
Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages. They say Heliodor has persisted with
debt recovery action and added charges to their mortgage inappropriately, and it hasnt
supported them as it should have done.
What happened
Miss D and Mr N took out this mortgage with Northern Rock in 2007. After Northern Rock
collapsed, Miss Ds and Mr Ns mortgage, along with many others, was transferred to
NRAM. In November 2019, their mortgage was sold to Heliodor.
Miss D and Mr N have complained about both NRAM and Heliodor. Their complaint about
NRAM has been dealt with separately, and this decision is only about Heliodors treatment of
them.
At the time of the transfer to Heliodor, no payments had been made to the mortgage since
December 2018. Miss D had been living at the property and paying the mortgage on her own
for many years, but she wasnt working for a time and she was also unwell, and arrears built
up on the mortgage.
Miss D decided to sell the mortgaged property. She says she discussed her circumstances
with NRAM, and it agreed to put legal action on hold and not add any charges for arrears
administration to the mortgage while the property was being marketed. Miss D complains
that Heliodor wouldnt do the same, and that it didnt have information she had given to
NRAM. She also complains that it sent a field agent to visit Mr N and charged for the visit,
and failed to take account of her medical condition or offer appropriate support.
Heliodor said it hadnt received the information Miss D had provided about her income and
expenditure to NRAM in September 2019. It apologised, and said it hadnt gone ahead with
the first field agent instruction it had made, so no charge had been made for that. But it didnt
think NRAM had told Miss D further action and charges would be put on hold pending the
sale of the property. It asked that Miss D stay in contact with it.
Around a month after sending Miss D this response, in early 2020, Heliodor instructed a field
agent to visit Mr N and added £54 to the mortgage to cover the costs. It also continued to
add a monthly fee of £40 to the mortgage for arrears administration.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out why I thought a refund of some 
arrears administration fees would be a fair and reasonable resolution.
My provisional decision
I said:
Contact with Miss D and Mr N, and debt recovery action
Ive examined the records Heliodor has provided of its and NRAMs contact with Miss D and
Mr N. I find nothing in those records to indicate that NRAM had agreed to hold action and
charges while the property was on the market. It appears that Miss D hadnt decided
whether to sell during her final conversations with NRAM in October 2019, prior to the
transfer to Heliodor, and I can see that NRAM added arrears administration charges to the
account in September and October 2019. The records of Miss Ds conversations with NRAM
say she wanted her complaint about NRAMs decision to decline her payment proposal to be
dealt with before she made a decision about selling the property.
So I share the investigators view that Heliodor didnt renege on an agreement Miss D had in
place with NRAM when it took over the mortgage. And Heliodor hadnt started legal action or
instructed solicitors when Miss D complained, so there was no formal action in train to put on
hold at that point.
Heliodors records say that Miss D had been through her income and expenditure with
NRAM during a call in September 2019, but Heliodor doesnt have the details of that
discussion. I would expect that information to have been transferred to it. However, Heliodor
has accepted something went wrong and has apologised to Miss D, which I think was a
reasonable step for it to have taken.
I can understand that Miss D didnt want to have to repeat herself, and Im mindful of what
she has told us about her health  there will be times when shes unable to have these
discussions. Nonetheless, I find that it was reasonable of Heliodor to attempt to establish
contact with her and Mr N after it took over the mortgage.
By that point, no payments had been made to the mortgage for around a year. On top of
that, Miss D had said two months earlier, in September 2019, that she expected her
circumstances to improve and to be back in work. There doesnt appear to be any dispute
that she had told NRAM she expected to resume making payments to the mortgage in
November 2019, increase the amount she could pay in January 2020, and make the full
monthly mortgage payments plus an amount towards the arrears from March 2020.
Against this background of changing circumstances, I think its understandable that Heliodor
asked for an update on the situation, and it would have been inappropriate for it not to have
done so. Miss D did get in touch with it in December 2019; Heliodor didnt send out a field
agent to her as a result of that call but did later send one to Mr Ns address.
Heliodor also told Miss D that it wouldnt consider suspending legal action while the property
was on the market unless she received an offer from a buyer. I consider that was an
unreasonable approach for it to have taken, and this was contrary to the relevant mortgage
rules set by the regulator. Repossession is a last resort, and Miss D and Mr N should 
under the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB 13.3.2A (5))  have been allowed a
reasonable period to sell. What is reasonable will depend on the particular circumstances.
Nonetheless, I find nothing to suggest that Heliodor has since taken legal action, because
weve been considering this complaint and because of regulatory guidance in light of the
Covid-19 pandemic. And I dont think Heliodor was unreasonable to have continued to look
for solutions to the increasing mortgage arrears. Any payments Miss D and Mr N could make
to the mortgage would have stopped arrears from increasing as quickly, saved them interest
and increased the equity in the property.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Heliodor treated Miss D and Mr N unfairly in seeking
further contact with them, including in instructing a field agent to visit Mr N. The purpose of a
field agents visit is to gather information and help the borrower and lender come to a
sustainable arrangement. While Mr N was no longer living at the mortgaged property, hewas still liable for the mortgage debt. I find Heliodor told Miss D and Mr N what it was
intending to do and what the cost would be.
Charges
The relevant rules of mortgage lending say any administration fees must be a reasonable
estimate of the additional administration required as a result of a mortgage being in arrears.
The charges Heliodor makes when a mortgage is in arrears are set out in its tariff of
charges. Im satisfied that they are clear and the charges Heliodor has added to Miss Ds
and Mr Ns mortgage are in line with the tariff.
However, I have also to consider whether the charges were applied fairly. Initially, following
the transfer of the mortgage to Heliodor, I think they were. As Ive already said, I consider
Heliodor was reasonable in trying to establish contact with Miss D and Mr N. No payment
arrangements were in place, and Miss D had expected her circumstances and ability to pay
the mortgage to change. So Heliodor carried out some arrears administration, and I consider
it was fair for it to have applied some charges to the mortgage for that, as well as the £54
charge it applied for the field agents visit to Mr N.
Heliodors records show it was carrying out administration in connection with the arrears on
the mortgage between November 2019 and March 2020, as I have mentioned above. But it
doesnt appear to have done the same in April and May 2020, which is as far as the records
I have seen go  and which coincides with government measures in respect of working
remotely due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as regulatory guidance in respect of
recovering mortgage debts.
Besides all of that, Miss D wouldnt have been able to sell the house during that period. She
has told us she had had it on the market, but viewings had to be suspended. She has also
said she struggled to get through to Heliodor both on the phone and online, in order to
arrange a payment holiday. Heliodor has said it was receiving a lot of calls from customers
and people had difficulty getting through. Miss D did later manage to sort this out in July
2020 and a payment holiday, initially for three months, was put in place. I understand a
further three-month payment holiday was also arranged later, and expired in early 2021.
In all the circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Heliodor to refund the
arrears administration charges it has applied since April 2020. It is apparent that it didnt
carry out work in connection with the arrears in some of those months, Miss D struggled to
arrange a payment holiday, and for a time she couldnt move forward with the sale of the
house. I dont consider that charges for arrears administration during this period were
applied fairly.
Contact and Miss Ds vulnerability
Its clear from Heliodors records that it knew Miss D suffers from an ongoing health
condition and is vulnerable. That information was passed on to it when it took over the
mortgage. The information it got also showed that Miss D generally communicated with
NRAM by phone, so I dont think Heliodor should necessarily have thought it should have
communicated with her in a different way.
I note that Heliodor did say in its initial correspondence with Miss D that she could write to it,
and she should let it know if there was anything it needed to know about in respect of her
ability to communicate with it. It also said she could consider appointing someone to act on
her behalf if she was finding it too stressful to manage her account herself.
Miss D has since said she would like to be able to communicate with Heliodor by e-mail, butHeliodor has said that isnt a service it offers. It has, however, said Miss D can send
messages through its secure self-serve facility online, and I think thats reasonable.
Conclusion and next steps
Overall, I think Heliodor should have handled some things differently, and it should re-work
Miss Ds and Mr Ns mortgage without the arrears administration charges that have been
applied since April 2020.
Its now for Heliodor and Miss D and Mr N to work together to agree a way to pay the
mortgage. It may well be that the only solution is for the property to be sold, in which case
its reasonable for Heliodor to ask for  and receive  regular updates about progress and to
have Miss Ds and Mr Ns authority to liaise with the selling agents.
In these circumstances, I would expect a lender and borrower to communicate with one
another regularly. Heliodor should also treat Miss D and Mr N fairly and give them time to
sell if appropriate  although that doesnt mean it should suspend further action indefinitely,
which includes ultimately taking possession proceedings.
Finally, Miss D says she overpaid the mortgage while it was with NRAM and she wants to
take a complaint about that forward. I cant consider that here as it hasnt formed part of this
complaint, but it is something she may be able to take up with either NRAM or Heliodor 
they should be able to tell her which of them will deal with the complaint under the terms of
the transfer of the mortgage between them.
In conclusion, I proposed that Heliodor re-work the mortgage as though arrears 
administration charges from 1 April 2020 to the date of my final decision hadnt been added, 
in such a way that any interest applied to those charges is also refunded.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Miss D and Mr N nor Heliodor accepted my provisional decision.
In summary, Miss D said I had missed a lot of key information, including that she had sold 
the mortgaged property and repaid the mortgage around six months ago. The sale had taken 
longer than it should have done because of the Covid-19 pandemic, she had to accept less 
than the asking price, and Heliodor did nothing to help.
Miss D also repeated some of her earlier arguments about the difficulties she had in 
communicating with Heliodor and that it shouldnt have sent a field agent to visit Mr N. She 
said Heliodor should have arranged for a specialist team to work with her, as NRAM had 
promised, so she could use the assisted sale scheme and charges would stop, and she 
considers NRAM responsible for the position she found herself in, with no choice but to sell 
the property. 
Heliodor said, in summary, it had sent letters to Miss D and Mr N in April and May 2020, so 
the fees it had applied in those months were correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise both parties will be disappointed, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.Before I made my provisional decision, neither party had told us that the property has been 
sold and the mortgage repaid, although I note Miss D has said she may have mentioned it to 
another investigator on another case weve dealt with. While that does affect the re-work of 
the mortgage I proposed in my provisional decision, it doesnt change my findings.
I also note what Miss D has said about NRAM being to blame for her ultimately having to sell 
the property. Im aware that our investigator in Miss Ds complaint about NRAM concluded 
that NRAM should have done more to explore her circumstances and payment proposals in 
September 2019  but I can only consider Miss D and Mr Ns complaint about Heliodor here. 
I think Heliodor was wrong to have said it wouldnt suspend legal action while the property 
was on the market  at least for a reasonable period. But, as I said in my provisional 
decision, no legal action was taken in the end. And I remain of the view that Heliodor tried to 
contact both Miss D and Mr N once it took on the mortgage in order to try to find out how the 
mortgage and arrears could be paid, and that it was reasonable in doing so. 
While Miss D had told Heliodor that Mr N was no longer living at the property and hadnt 
contributed to the mortgage for a number of years, it doesnt necessarily follow that Heliodor 
shouldnt have tried to contact Mr N  including instructing a field agent. Mr N was still liable 
for the mortgage, so Heliodor was entitled to make its own enquiries of him. It had cancelled 
the field agent it had instructed to visit Miss D when she complained about it, and confirmed 
she hadnt been charged for the instruction. But it wrote again soon afterwards, to Mr Ns 
address, saying a field agent would be visiting him if he didnt get in touch, and what the cost 
would be. So I think it explained what was happening.
Assisted sale may be an option for borrowers, in particular if they cant afford the costs of 
selling their property themselves, but not every lender offers it or they may only offer it as a 
last resort  and lenders arent required to offer it. Here, Miss D was able to arrange for the 
property to be sold herself, and she had the property on the market soon after Heliodor took 
over the mortgage. I dont consider there was any additional support Heliodor should have 
offered at this stage; in the first instance it wanted to understand Miss Ds and Mr Ns 
circumstances, and I think that was reasonable.
Miss D was also eventually able to arrange a payment holiday, or deferral, after the regulator 
issued guidance for mortgage lenders in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. I noted in my 
provisional decision that she struggled to contact Heliodor in order to arrange this, and this is 
one of the reasons why I considered Heliodor should refund arrears administration fees from 
1 April 2020.
Heliodor has said it sent letters in April and May 2020, so it was entitled to charge for arrears 
administration in those months. It has provided a table which indicates letters were sent on 1 
April, 30 April and 1 May 2020. It hasnt said what those letters said or what they were about, 
or shown that they were sent to Miss D and Mr N. 
Heliodor knew Miss D was in financial difficulty and trying to sell the property, and I think its 
understandable that progress with the sale stalled under lockdown measures which were 
initially put in place in late March 2020. Heliodor also presumably knew that its customers 
were having trouble contacting it to arrange payment holidays. 
Against this background, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
case is for Heliodor to refund the arrears administration charges it applied from April 2020 
onwards. It should re-work Miss Ds and Mr Ns mortgage as though those charges hadnt 
been applied, and  given that the mortgage has been repaid  pay Miss D and Mr N interest 
on the resulting sum, from the date the mortgage was repaid to the date of settlement.Putting things right
I require Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages, to re-work Miss Ds and Mr 
Ns mortgage account as though the arrears administration charges applied from 1 April 
2020 onwards hadnt been added.
This means that, as well as the charges themselves being refunded, any interest applied to
them should also be refunded. Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages, 
should then pay Miss D and Mr N the resulting sum, plus 8% simple interest from the date 
the mortgage was repaid to the date of settlement.
If Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages, considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss D 
and Mr N how much it has taken off. It should also give Miss D and Mr N a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
I make no other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages, should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman