DRN-3140169
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the charges BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as BMW 
Financial Services applied when she returned a car after she voluntarily terminated a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement in September 2015 and she ended the 
agreement early March 2019. She says shes unhappy with the end of contract charges that 
were applied when she returned the car. Mrs S told us:
A third party collected the car in March 2019, inspected it and provided BMW with a 
report. BMW then wrote to her with details of the inspection and advised her she 
needed to pay £420 for vehicle damage and a further £358.91 due to excess 
mileage;
she accepted the charges for excess mileage and paid these promptly, but shes 
unhappy with the charges that have been levied for vehicle damage and she says 
she wasnt given an opportunity to challenge this.
BMW rejected this complaint. It said under the terms of Mrs S agreement, she needed to 
return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And it explained that it had 
reviewed the photographs and the inspection report provided by its collection agent and it 
was satisfied that the identified damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear 
and tear.
BMW also explained that the third party that inspected the car, wouldnt have been 
authorised to advise whether BMW would make a charge following its inspection. Its role 
was to record any damage to the vehicle and notify BMW. It was for BMW to determine what 
damage was chargeable on the basis of Mrs S finance agreement.
Mrs S disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service. Shes represented by Mr S.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by BMW were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the photographs submitted by BMW to support its position and he 
thought the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, 
was chargeable.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the charges relating to 
vehicle damage were not confirmed when the vehicle was collected; they werent told about 
the charges until after the car had been taken away.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs S must keep the vehicle in good 
repair and condition. So, Im satisfied that Mrs S was responsible for returning the car in 
good condition, but the question is whether all the charges applied by BMW are fair and 
reasonable.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for BMW to charge Mrs S.
BMWs inspection report lists several areas where damage to the vehicle is reported. Some 
of these items havent been charged to Mrs S because they fall within the BVRLA guidelines. 
But there are five areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear:
1. Front left wheel  scratched rim over 100mm £51.00
2. Rear left wheel  scratched rim over 100mm £51.00
3. Rear bumper  scratch greater than 25mm £106.00
4. Front right door  scratch greater than 25mm £106.00
5. Front right wing  scratch greater than 25mm £106.00
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels. It 
says:
Dents and holes on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable
Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs that BMW provided, and Im satisfied that all 
both alloys are damaged as detailed in the inspection report and that the damage is outside 
fair wear and tear. The two alloys have scuffs exceeding the acceptable level. So, I think the 
charges in respect of the alloy wheels have been applied fairly.
The BVRLA guidance also sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to paintwork, 
vehicle body, bumpers and trim. It says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out
Ive looked carefully at the photographs and report provided by BMW, and again, Im 
satisfied that the recorded damage is as detailed in the report and is outside fair wear and 
tear. And I think the charges in respect of this have been applied fairly.
Ive noted Mr S comments about the collection agent not providing confirmation of the 
charges prior to collecting the vehicle. But I have to tell Mr S that this wasnt the collection 
agents role. Their role was to collect the vehicle and document all damage. It was for BMW 
to determine the level of charges and to provide Mrs S with an invoice once it had assessed 
the independent report.Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges BMW asked Mrs S to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that BMW has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman