DRN-3882910
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Vodafone Limited carried out a hard search on his credit file 
without his permission. The search was in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement Mr E took 
out to pay for a phone. 
What happened
Mr E went to a Vodafone store in September 2022 to upgrade his phone. Vodafone entered 
into a fixed sum loan agreement with him to fund the purchase. He says a few days later he 
noticed Vodafone had carried out a hard credit search before granting him the loan. Mr E 
says Vodafone did this without warning him, so he returned to the store to complain. He says 
hes been a longstanding customer of Vodafone and it hadnt done this previously. Mr E says 
he was going through a mortgage application at the time, and he was unhappy the search 
had affected his credit score. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr E requested Vodafone remove the search from his credit file 
and pay him compensation. 
Vodafone looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it was required to complete 
credit checks to determine whether to grant the credit agreement. It said it would always ask 
for the customers consent and personal information before doing so. It gave Mr E a copy of 
its terms and conditions relating to credit file checks. Its notes say if Mr E returned the phone 
and cancelled the agreement and it was noted hed been misinformed, it could look into 
things again. 
Mr E wasnt happy with the response, so brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. In 
summary, she said she wasnt present at the point of sale so didnt know what was 
discussed. She says the evidence supplied by Mr E and Vodafone was conflicting. She said 
Mr E didnt want to come out of the agreement and return the phone. She also considered 
that Mr E hadnt supplied evidence of the knock-on impact of the hard search on his credit 
file (other than to show his credit score reduced around the same time). So she didnt 
recommend a compensation award. 
Mr E didnt agree. In summary he said hed be happy to participate in a full enquiry by 
Vodafone on whether it followed the correct process in store. He said he took out various 
products that day and the only one with an issue is in relation to the phone bought using 
Vodafones fixed sum loan. He says he wasnt concerned whether the hard search was 
justified  his issue was that he wasnt informed of it. 
Moreover, Mr E says the Vodafone store completed the paperwork in his absence as there 
were IT issues during the day. He says he could demonstrate he was in the store from about 
midday and was back home before 3pm. He says he could demonstrate the agreement was 
produced after 3pm and that he didnt sign it. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
I wrote to Mr E to ask him if he had any further evidence to support his case  such as the 
evidence he didnt sign the agreement in line with his response to our investigators 
assessment. I also asked if he had anything to show the hard search had caused him 
detriment  such as evidence from a broker or mortgage lender. 
Mr E responded to say he left the store not expecting any issues and he didnt gather 
evidence to support his case. He did however provide a copy of two documents that were 
signed on the day and highlighted that the signature on the loan agreement didnt match one 
he agreed hed signed. Mr E said he was unable to demonstrate his mortgage was declined 
solely due to Vodafones hard credit search. He was unhappy that his comments about 
Vodafone not following the correct procedure wasnt given enough weight. And he felt that 
the Financial Ombudsman was defending Vodafone. Mr E reiterated the matter had caused 
distress and inconvenience and that hed not made up his complaint for financial gain. 
I agreed to issue a decision based on the evidence to hand. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr E 
and Vodafone that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
In this case, Vodafone recorded a hard search in relation to a regulated fixed sum loan 
agreement it entered into with Mr E. Our service is able to consider complaints relating to 
these sorts of agreements.  
Our statutory duty is to resolve certain disputes quickly and with minimum formality. Unlike a 
court, were unable to compel witnesses or ask for sworn evidence. 
As I explained to Mr E, on the one hand he told us the Vodafone store had IT issues on the 
day he took out the agreement, and that he didnt sign it. He told us it was signed after hed 
left the store, and that he wasnt warned a hard credit search would be carried out. He also 
highlighted the signature on the fixed sum loan agreement didnt match other documents he 
agrees he signed on the day. 
On the other hand, Vodafone said its staff have a script to go through that notifies customers 
a credit search would be carried out. It has supplied us details showing it emailed Mr E a 
contract summary at just after 3pm on the day he bought the phone. Its pointed towards 
terms and conditions that says credit checks will be carried out to determine the customers 
eligibility to take out a credit agreement. And its provided a copy of the agreement it says 
Mr E signed. 
Its curious the signature on the credit agreement is the only signature Mr E says he didnt 
sign. And I find Mr E has been consistent and credible in bringing his case to the 
ombudsman. I think hes brought some compelling arguments. 
Unfortunately, Mr E hasnt, however, been able to supply the evidence he wasnt at the store 
when the fixed sum loan agreement was signed. And like I said above, I cant obtain sworn 
evidence from the salesperson. So it leaves us with one partys word against the other. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its not clear why the store would have sought to not tell Mr E about a hard search being 
carried out. Its a normal step to take for credit applications. But I do appreciate Mr E has 
said this was the first time Vodafone had sold him a phone to be paid using a fixed sum loan. 
And it looks like he took out a range of products on the day. Perhaps the salesperson forgot 
to read the relevant script. Ill never know for certain. Ive gone on to think about the terms 
and conditions Vodafone referred to. 
It would be unusual for a store to sign an agreement on a customers behalf after theyd left. 
Particularly if Vodafone was going to email the customer about it straight away. But Mr E has 
said it did this because the store had IT problems on the day. Vodafone hasnt said thats 
what happened. Of course, all these things are possible. But I think if I was going to make 
the finding that, on balance, Vodafone didnt warn Mr E about the search, or that it signed 
the agreement on his behalf, possibly without his permission, Id like to have more certainty 
to reach those findings. Based on what Ive seen, I dont consider I can make the finding that 
the most likely thing to have happened is that Vodafone firstly didnt warn Mr E about the 
credit search in its script, and secondly it also signed the agreement on his behalf. 
Moreover, even if I was to make the finding that Vodafone had done something wrong, Im 
mindful Ive not seen what the knock-on impact of the hard search was on Mr E. He hasnt 
been able to supply us further evidence of the detriment thats been caused. I can see his 
score went down around the time, but its not clear why. So Im not in a position to direct 
Vodafone to reimburse Mr E something hes lost out. 
Ive also thought about whether there are grounds to direct Vodafone to compensate Mr E 
for the distress and inconvenience he says hes been caused. Like I also said to Mr E, I think 
consumers will always be put to some level of inconvenience when having to raise a 
complaint. But in order for me to direct Vodafone to pay Mr E compensation in relation to the 
impact on him personally, as Ive said above, Id like to have more certainty that Vodafone 
had done something wrong. 
Finally, Im also conscious that while I cant see any guarantees were given, it looks like 
Vodafone would have considered looking into things if Mr E returned the handset and 
cancelled the agreement if the store noted the account to say hed been misadvised. While I 
understand Mr E didnt want to do this because of the hassle, it looks like there was a 
potential solution here that also may have resolved things for him. 
I want to thank Mr E for taking the time to bring his complaint. And while I appreciate why he 
has complained, Im not going to direct Vodafone to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman