DRN-2957043
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain about the way Society of Lloyds handled of a claim under their 
home insurance policy.  
What happened
For ease of reference, when I mention below actions taken or information provided by 
Society of Lloyds (SOL), that may include actions taken or information provided by their 
agents.
The background to this complaint is complex, lengthy and detailed. Its not my intention to go 
into that in great detail here, because the situation is well-known to both parties.
Mrs K and Mr K have a mid-net worth home insurance policy with SOL.
They made a claim after a fire damaged a newly built annex to their home in early July 2019. 
As I understand it, the claim is at present on-going.
Mrs K and Mr K have made a number of complaints to SOL during the life of the claim. 
These mainly revolve around alleged incompetence in the handling of the claim, which Mrs K 
and Mr K say led to chronic under-estimation of the costs involved and avoidable delays.
SOL have admitted some fault in their handling of the claim and offered £1,000 in 
compensation.
Mrs K and Mr K werent happy with SOLs response to their initial complaint and brought the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into it. With SOLs agreement, shes also considered some further 
complaint points that Mrs K and Mr K brought forward during her investigation. 
Her view was that the complaint should be upheld. She thought SOL should pay an 
additional £2,000 in compensation for Mrs K and Mr Ks trouble and upset. And she thought 
SOL should:
provide a guarantee for the repaired roof to the annex, equivalent to the one Mrs K 
and Mr K had in place before the fire;
consider any evidence Mrs K and Mr K produce during the repair works (which are 
yet to commence) of escalating building material costs;
cover Mrs K and Mr Ks storage costs for goods which would have been in the annex 
had the fire not occurred, up until the point they are able to move those goods back 
into the reinstated annex.
Mrs K and Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They believe 
the compensation suggested is significantly below what they have a right to expect in all the 
circumstances.
Its worth mentioning that SOL are also unhappy with the proposed outcome. They believe 
that £2,000 compensation in total is enough given the faults they accept in their handling of 
the claim. They say that should include the £1,000 theyve already offered Mrs K and Mr K.
They also say that any escalation in the cost of building materials has been accounted for in 
the resolution theyve proposed. And that its not for them to guarantee work carried out on 
the roof by any contractor appointed by Mrs K and Mr K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear, first of all, that whilst SOL have agreed that we can include some 
additional complaint points in our investigation as its gone on (which they arent obliged to 
do under the Financial Conduct Authority rules which govern the way we investigate 
complaints), they are considering a separate complaint from Mrs K and Mr K about the 
amount theyve offered to cover loss of rent for the annex (which was to be let as a holiday 
home) and about the terms and price they offered on renewal of the policy.
So, I wont be considering those complaint points in this decision. If Mrs K and Mr K are 
unhappy with SOLs response to that entirely separate complaint, they would be entitled to 
make a further complaint to us about those matters specifically. 
This has been a difficult complaint for us to investigate because the claim has been on-going 
throughout and the ground has constantly shifted in terms of what SOL have been willing to 
offer Mrs K and Mr K in settlement. Its also fair to say that Mrs K and Mr K have raised new 
issues as the investigation has proceeded and as the settlement offered to them has 
changed. 
Of course, thats not a problem. Were here to try to resolve complaints like these, no matter 
how complex and difficult they become. But I mention it only because I think it requires us to 
take a pragmatic approach to the issues raised. In particular, its not for us to act as 
alternative claims handlers and or instruct SOL about their on-going handling of the claim. 
In other words, we can say what we think should happen right now, to put things right for 
Mrs K and Mr K given what theyve experienced so far, but its not for us to anticipate what 
might happen in the future, as the claim is finally settled or as and when the reinstatement 
work is carried out. If Mrs K and Mr K believe that theyre treated unfairly by SOL in future, 
they are entitled to make a new complaint at that point.
This is important to say, because  as I understand it  the claim is very close to being 
settled. And it appears that SOL are resolving things in a way thats acceptable to Mrs K and 
Mr K. 
For example, there has been an on-going discussion (dispute might be a more accurate 
term) between Mrs K and Mr K and SOL about whether the roof in the annex should be 
replaced entirely or could be repaired. SOL tell us theyve now agreed to replace the annex 
roof rather than repair it, which is in line with Mrs K and Mr Ks wishes.
So, its likely, I think, that the claim will eventually be settled as Mrs K and Mr K wish (as I 
say, I am not commenting here on the payment offered by SOL for loss of rent, which may 
still be an issue, but is the subject of a separate complaint). 
This does mean that some of the recommendations made by our investigator when she expressed her view on the complaint may be redundant  but Ill come to that later. 
It also means that the crux of the complaint, from our point of view, becomes the delay  and 
whether it was avoidable and/or SOLs fault. In other words, the claim may be settled fairly 
and appropriately, but could it have been settled much sooner on that same basis?
There is one exception to that, which Ill cover now. SOL have admitted that they were slow 
at first to take into account Mrs K and Mr Ks health problems (both have respiratory issues, 
as does their son who also lives at the property). 
So, the degree of urgency which might have been appropriate in the early stages of the 
handling of the claim perhaps wasnt in evidence. In particular, this led to some delays in 
getting the smoke-damaged annex properly sealed off from the main part of the residence.
I agree with SOL that they could have recognised Mrs K and Mr Ks vulnerabilities sooner 
and they could have listened better to what Mrs K and Mr K were saying about how they 
were affected by the fire. I have, of course, taken this into account when thinking about the 
amount of compensation appropriate in this case.
Turning to the delays in settling the claim, its not my intention to attempt to forensically 
identify day-by-day or hour-by-hour who was responsible for what delay  and why. Thats 
not necessary in my view, even if it were possible given the evidence we have to hand.
However, I am of course aware that more than two years have gone by since the fire and the 
subsequent claim. And the reinstatement works have still not begun. 
On the face of it, thats a long time to wait for a claim to be settled satisfactorily. Mrs K and 
Mr K have emphasised their health problems throughout. And they have made SOL aware of 
the stress they were caused by the on-going situation.
I wont go into detail here, because this decision will be published and I am very wary of 
giving so much information that readers might be able to identify Mrs K and Mr K. However, I 
will say that their circumstances are unusually and extremely difficult. 
In brief, I can see why the last two years have been even more stressful and upsetting for 
Mrs K and Mr K than they ordinarily might be for others. And I can understand Mrs K and 
Mr Ks frustration that things have not been settled to their satisfaction much sooner. I cant 
begin to imagine how difficult and stressful things have been for Mrs K and Mr K in that 
period.
That said, I have to try to identify how much of that stress and upset is a direct result of the 
fire and the inevitable consequences of that awful event. And, on the other hand, how much 
might be down to SOLs (or their agents) actions or omissions. 
In other words, what part of the delay in resolving this claim might have been avoided if SOL 
had acted differently? To that end, Ive tried to identify the main causes of the delays below  
and to make an assessment about whether any responsibility for those delays lies with SOL.
The early handling of the claim
Ive mentioned above the failures SOL have admitted in recognising the degree of Mrs K and 
Mr Ks vulnerability early on in the claim-handling, so I wont go into that again.
The fire was a major event, with far-reaching and devastating consequences, so I wouldnt 
expect SOLs appointed loss adjuster to have made an assessment and settled the claim within a few weeks. In fact, five weeks after the fire, an offer was made to Mrs K and Mr K to 
either have the reinstatement work carried out by SOLs approved contractor or to take a 
cash settlement. On the face of it, thats not an unreasonable timescale.
However, the claim wasnt settled  nor was work commenced - on the back of that offer. 
The immediate reason for this was that Mrs K and Mr K objected to the contractor  who 
they said wasnt up to the job of reinstating the annex to the same quality as the original 
builder  and had reservations about the proposed schedule of works. This appeared to be 
lacking in detail and, according to Mrs K and Mr K, led to an under-estimation of the amount 
and nature (and cost) of the work involved.
I dont think Im in any position to question SOLs choice of contractor. And indeed, if they 
didnt like the contractor, Mrs K and Mr K had the option of a cash settlement. So, if this were 
the only reason the claim was delayed at this point, I might be inclined not to put any of the 
blame on SOL.
However, it appears Mrs K and Mr K were right to question the proposed schedule of works. 
For example, it has become apparent since then that the schedule hadnt properly 
accounted for potential damage to the underfloor heating and/or for the means and costs of 
replacing doors and windows. There have been other issues, but I wont go into those detail 
here.
To cut a long story short, the eventual settlement now being offered to Mrs K and Mr K is 
around £200,000. The original estimate was for £60,000. Some of that increase may be due 
to increased costs of building materials over the period in question, but the very large 
disparity does indicate that the original schedule of works  and the cash settlement offer 
which would have followed it  was some way short of what was actually needed.
After a few weeks of further discussion, and with Mrs K and Mr Ks agreement and approval, 
SOL appointed a surveyor to oversee the claim. If they had done that earlier, some time may 
have been saved. Essentially, we were now two months into the claim before the surveyor 
inspected the property. You might argue that was two months wasted with only an abortive 
attempt to assess the required work and an offer to Mrs and Mr K which wasnt appropriate 
or fair.
I dont think its fair to hold SOL responsible for the whole of that two months. The complexity 
of the claim  which ultimately led them to the decision to appoint the surveyor  wouldnt 
have been apparent until the loss adjuster had paid their first visit to the property and/or until 
Mrs K and Mr K had had an opportunity to provide detailed information. 
However, I do think things might have been progressed to that point  the appointment of the 
surveyor  somewhat more quickly, bearing in mind the nature of the claim and the 
vulnerability of the claimants. 
Delays in the strip out
After the surveyors inspection  in September 2019 (two months into the claim)  there were 
further discussions which led to the appointment of a structural engineer to provide a report 
primarily about the state of the timbers in the roof. There has been a long-standing dispute 
between SOL and Mrs K and Mr K about whether some of those timbers could be replaced / 
repaired or whether the roof as a whole needed replacing. Ill return to this later, because it is 
fundamental to my considerations. 
The important point for now is that the surveyor was progressing the claim at a reasonable 
pace - and trying to resolve some of the issues about the extent of the work required. And very soon after that, the surveyor suggested obtaining quotes from contractors purely for the 
strip out work  with a further process later to select a contractor for the reinstatement work 
once the strip out had allowed a proper and more complete assessment of the damage to 
the structure and fittings (e.g. the underground heating).
This was, in my view, the right thing to do  and an example of the surveyor, with the 
insurers approval, thinking outside the box in order to get the claim moving. It is arguable 
that the decision to split the work into two phases in that way could have occurred to 
someone sooner. Indeed, it might have been proposed very early on. 
However, I think it would be harsh to blame SOL for not taking this approach sooner (or at 
least significantly sooner). What is apparent from the exchanges weve seen between the 
various parties is that they were all keen to move things forward for Mrs K and Mr K. And 
they were willing to consider steps outside their usual process to progress the claim. When 
its necessary to take exceptional measures, that will inevitably take some time and will need 
approval. So, I dont think there were any avoidable delays for which SOL were responsible 
around this time. 
The strip out was completed in November 2019 and theres no evidence at all of any delays 
in appointing the contractors or getting them on to the site in reasonable time once the 
decision had been made to split the work into two phases.
Appointment of contractors
Mrs K and Mr K didnt like the approved contractor proposed by SOL. That was their view 
and they were entitled to hold it. However, it did have knock-on consequences for the time 
taken to properly resolve the claim.
In short, Mrs K and Mr K neither wanted the contractor proposed nor the cash settlement 
which was on offer at the time. SOL might have dug in their heels at that point and insisted 
the matter get resolved one way or the other  in line with the policy which sets out the 
options for settlement of claims. That might have been unfair given that, as I say above, the 
required work hadnt yet been properly scoped and costed.
But again, the evidence we have on file shows that SOL were very keen to resolve matters 
to Mrs K and Mr Ks satisfaction. And with that in mind, they decided to put out tenders for 
the work. And their invitations to tender were sent to builders which included those approved 
by Mrs K and Mr K.
Once the decision  which, as I say, was in my view the right one  to separate out the work 
into two phases was made, this meant there would be two tender processes. In fact, SOL 
also ran a tender to select a structural engineer acceptable to Mrs K and Mr K.
Tendering the work like that inevitably adds delay into the process (compared to simply 
selecting a contractor from a list of approved firms). I think this was done with the best of 
intentions  and any other option may not have satisfied Mrs K and Mr K. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to then argue that SOL had caused avoidable delays through 
going out to tender. Those delays were as a result of a well-intentioned attempt to satisfy 
Mrs K and Mr K and to comply with their understandable wish to ensure the chosen 
contractor was up to the job.
Many parties involved in decision-making
SOL does its business in such a way that this claim involved three separate entities involved in the provision of the policy  all of whom had a perfectly legitimate interest in the outcome 
of the claim. As well as SOL, there is the actual underwriter  and they were selling a 
product through an intermediary company. The loss adjuster remained involved throughout. 
So did the surveyor appointed by SOL to oversee the claim. And Mrs K and Mr K were 
involved  as well as their broker.
This meant that reaching an agreement on the way forward and/or getting approval for any 
suggested proposals was complicated. I cant see that any party ignored messages or was 
dilatory in replying to them. But there were inevitably times when it took days or even weeks 
to reach a decision when it might otherwise have been a much shorter process.
I say this not to criticise anyone or to comment on the business model, but simply to clarify 
that decision-making sometimes wasnt immediate. I think that is down to SOL. But, to be fair 
to them, these delays were pretty insignificant in the grander scheme of things. Theyre not, 
in other words, a major reason why the settlement of this claim has taken two years and 
counting. As I say, all parties were very keen to move things along and all responded 
reasonably quickly when they had to be involved in decision-making or approval.
On-going addition of complaint points and/or claim points
Mrs K and Mr K have made several complaints to SOL during the relevant period. Given 
their frustration about the time taken to resolve their claim, that isnt entirely unsurprising. 
Theyve also added to their complaints as theyve been handled. 
This has, to an extent, complicated the actual handling of the claim. SOL have expended 
energy answering organically-growing complaints  and then feeding back the findings to 
those involved in handling the claim. That has almost inevitably caused some minor delays  
although again, nothing too significant in the wider context.
Mrs K and Mr K also say SOL have been slow and obstructive in handling elements of their 
claim  for example, those relating to the contents damaged or destroyed by the fire or the 
air purifier they say they hired for use in the annex.
I dont believe SOL have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs K and Mr K in this 
respect. They are entitled to ask for evidence of loss. And I can see, for example, that they 
had to request an invoice for the air purifier  the first copy of which provided by Mrs K had 
the relevant dates obscured by a knife placed across the document. 
Im also aware that some elements of the claim werent put forward until some time after the 
event. Mrs K and Mr K have, for example, asked SOL to cover the cost of damaged or 
destroyed paints, oils and a step ladder which were in the annex at the time of the fire. I cant 
see any evidence that Mrs K and Mr K fully raised or evidenced those items until November 
2019 at the earliest, some months after the initial claim.
Impact of COVID and lockdown
Theres a three month period after March 2020 when nothing substantive is done to progress 
the claim, coinciding with the first national lockdown due to COVID.
At that point, all parties were agreed that the next step was to have a structural engineer visit 
the property and provide a report. SOL say they were concerned about sending an engineer 
to the property given the health vulnerabilities of Mrs K and Mr K and their family. I dont 
think thats unreasonable, on the face of it.
Mrs K tells us she thought such precautions were unnecessary given that the engineer(s) wouldnt have to enter the main residence but would be outside in the fire-damaged annex, 
which was now separated from the rest of the house. 
Whilst that may be correct, I think some hindsight may be at work. I dont think it would be 
fair to criticise SOL for being cautious at that time, especially since government advice was 
changing almost daily and the situation was unprecedented. This is to say nothing of 
whether the surveyor would have been available, working and/or willing to attend.
In my view, there are three months lost here in handling the claim which are no-ones fault. 
And Ive taken that into account when considering what compensation might be appropriate 
for Mrs K and Mr Ks trouble and upset.
Delays in the structural engineers report
A structural engineer inspected the annex in mid-December 2019. Their report was required 
in order to move the claim forward. It wasnt actually produced until early February 2020. 
Thats almost two months after the inspection. 
Whilst SOL arent directly responsible for the delay  and whilst that period does include the 
festive season - its not entirely clear why SOL (or their agents) werent pressing for the 
report to be produced more speedily, given the circumstances surrounding the claim.
Disagreement about the work needed on the roof
In my view, the biggest contributory factor to the delays in resolving this claim revolves 
around the dispute about whether the damage to beams in the roof could reasonably and 
effectively be repaired (as SOL would suggest) or whether the roof needed to be replaced 
because it was irretrievably contaminated with pollutants (as Mrs K and Mr K would 
suggest).
This bone of contention has prevented any agreement being reached about what works 
were necessary and/or what the cost of those works was likely to be. If there had been 
agreement on this point, I cant see any reason why the reinstatement work could have been 
tendered in December 2019 after the strip out was completed in November  leaving a short 
time for a surveyors inspection and drafting of a schedule of works in-between.
Since then, theres been a structural engineers report  which concluded that the relevant 
beams could in fact be repaired or replaced without any need to remove and replace the 
whole roof. And, when Mrs K and Mr K objected to that outcome, there was some prolonged 
discussion about appointing a further structural engineer (chosen by Mrs K and Mr K).
Instead  and this was undoubtedly the right choice given the nature of Mrs K and Mr Ks 
objections at the time - a specialist in fire-damage and contamination was then appointed to 
inspect the property, carry out tests and provide a report.
That expert also concluded that the plan to take out and repair or replace the charred 
elements of the building (including those of the roof beams that had been affected)  
alongside specialist cleaning  would ensure that the annex was not contaminated. 
In other words, the roof did not need to be replaced as whole in order to give Mrs K and Mr K 
a contaminant-free annex.
Im not an alternative expert on fire-damage and contamination. Its not for me to say 
whether the experts conclusions are in fact justified. What I can say is that it wasnt 
unreasonable for SOL to rely on that independent expert advice when deciding how to resolve the claim.
I know other discussions were going on at the same time. And I know this is a simplification 
 intended only to bring some clarity. But in my view, it wasnt unreasonable for SOL to take 
the structural engineer at their word when they said the roof could be repaired. 
Nor was it unreasonable or unfair for them to trust the report provided by the fire-
contamination expert  who also helpfully responded to a number of queries raised by Mrs K 
about the original report.
As I understand it, SOL have now agreed  as they put it, as a business decision  to 
replace the whole of the annex roof. I dont think they were obliged to do that, on the basis of 
the expert evidence. In fact, I suspect they have conceded the point simply in order to draw 
this matter to a conclusion  and in light of Mrs K and Mr Ks situation and vulnerabilities.
You could argue that if SOL had conceded that particular argument and agreed the roof 
needing fully replacing in late 2019 or early 2020  as they have done now  then the claim 
would have been settled much sooner.
I think that would be entirely unfair to SOL however. The fact that theyve compromised now, 
in the interests of bringing the matter to a satisfactory conclusion, doesnt mean they werent 
ever justified in their stance. 
In fact, all of the expert evidence available suggests they were right. So, I dont think they 
can be blamed for any of the delays attendant on the discussion and debate about the 
replacement of the roof. 
Summary on delays
SOL have admitted their early handling of the claim was poor. Certainly, they seem to have 
under-estimated the work required. That caused delays in progressing the claim given that 
Mrs K and Mr K were rightly inclined to question SOLs initial findings and proposals.
SOL are also in my view responsible for delays in the provision of the structural engineers 
report around the turn of 2019 and 2020.
I think it would be unfair to hold SOL to account for the delays due to the COVID lockdown.
 And I think the main delays after that hiatus are primarily due to the need to get expert 
evidence on the conflicting views about the contamination of the timber in the annex roof. 
I cant in all fairness conclude that those delays were SOLs responsibility because I believe 
they were right to seek those expert opinions and because the experts all agreed the line 
originally taken by SOL.
Putting things right
Our investigator said SOL should provide a guarantee for the roof, given that the repairs they 
were planning would invalidate the pre-existing manufacturers guarantee. That is now 
redundant since SOL have agreed to pay for replacement of the whole of the annex roof. 
Mrs K and Mr K will be able to agree a guarantee with the new roofs manufacturer. 
If, however, Mrs K and Mr K can later provide proof that this was impossible, Id expect SOL 
to look again at the issue. As I said at the start, we cant anticipate all future possibilities. Theres no reason to suspect 
that the guarantee would be an issue now. If it does prove to be an issue, Mrs K and Mr K 
can raise that with SOL at the time - and if they arent happy with SOLs response, theyd be 
entitled to bring a complaint to us.
Our investigator also said that SOL should consider any further information from Mrs K and 
Mr K about potential rising costs due to increases in the price of building materials. That 
seems to me to be reasonable. 
I know SOL have included an inflationary figure in the settlement offered to Mrs K and Mr K. 
Im told this amounts to 6% plus the £3,000 contingency in their original estimate for the 
works. 
And I know SOL were hoping for the claim to be settled with some finality, which is perfectly 
reasonable. But it would be unfair to say that Mrs and Mr K couldnt ask SOL to look at the 
settlement again if the cost of building materials were to increase significantly over and 
above the level already allowed for in the settlement. I dont expect that to be the case, but it 
is a very volatile market in recent times.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs K has asked why we havent instructed SOL to 
pay 8% simple interest on top of any settlement payment, given that theyve been deprived 
of that money for two years. 
I dont think an interest award would be appropriate in this case. Mrs K and Mr K wouldnt 
have invested that money (and got an 8% return) if theyd had it earlier. Nor have they been 
deprived of the pleasure of anything else  other than the repair to the annex  they might 
have spent the money on. 
And any increase in the costs of repairing the annex over the last two years have been 
accounted for in the settlement being offered to Mrs K and Mr K. SOL need to replace Mrs K 
and Mr Ks annex essentially  at current prices. They arent obliged to add 8% on top of 
that.
Our investigator also said SOL should cover Mrs K and Mr Ks storage costs until they are 
back in the annex. I think thats also reasonable, especially given that those costs are 
minimal in the grander scheme of this claim. That said, I understand SOLs concerns that 
they shouldnt be paying these costs indefinitely.
Again, its not for me to try to predict the future  much less indeed, all possible future 
eventualities  but it wouldnt be unreasonable for SOL to keep these costs under review. 
If they do decide to terminate the payments at some point in future (I would think beyond 
mid-2022 at the earliest), Mrs K and Mr K will be entitled to make a complaint  and to bring 
it to us if they arent satisfied with SOLs answer.
Finally, Ill turn to the matter of compensation for Mrs K and Mr Ks trouble and upset.
This has been a very stressful and frustrating time for Mrs K and Mr K. It would have been 
very stressful and frustrating if SOL had handled the claim perfectly. SOL arent to blame for 
the fire. And theyre not responsible for Mrs K and Mr Ks health problems.
They are however responsible for the poor handling of the claim and the delays Mrs K and 
Mr K have experienced as a result of that poor handling. This isnt to say SOL should compensate Mrs K and Mr K for two years of delays. Ive tried 
to delineate above the delays I feel SOL are responsible for, as against the time this 
complex claim would inevitably have taken. 
And I bear in mind that much of the elapsed time since the claim was made has been the 
result of a dispute about the repair or replacement of the roof. I dont think SOL can 
reasonably be held solely to account for that.
In that context, I believe the £3,000 compensation in total (the £1,000 already awarded by 
SOL, plus a further £2,000 suggested by our investigator) is appropriate given the level of 
trouble and upset experienced by Mrs K and Mr K which is the result of mistakes made by 
SOL, including their failure to properly seal off the annex from the main residence 
immediately the claim was made.
As I say, and its important to be clear about this  over the last few years, Mrs K and Mr K 
have experienced much more trouble and upset than £3,000 could ever compensate them 
for. But I can only ask SOL to pay for the part of that trouble and upset their errors or 
omissions caused. And SOL arent responsible for the fire or for Mrs K and Mr Ks ill health.
I know Mrs K and Mr K will be disappointed by this outcome, but I have to take into account 
that SOL arent responsible for the onset of the situation, or for all of the delays in the 
settlement of the claim. 
Ive also, of course, taken account of the fact that Mrs K and Mr K havent actually been 
deprived of the use and enjoyment of the annex for the period in question. It was to be let 
out to holiday makers  and SOL are considering that loss of rent as part of the claim.
Mrs K has told us in the past that she wouldnt accept ten times the £2,000 compensation 
suggested by our investigator. Shes also told us that her legal advisers have said she 
should seek up to £250,000 in compensation. 
It is of course open to Mrs K and Mr K to not accept my decision. That would leave them 
entirely free to pursue the matter in the courts if they wished to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint.  
Society of Lloyd's must:
Pay Mrs K and Mr K a further £2,000 in compensation for their trouble and upset;
Consider any further information Mrs K and Mr K may provide  even after the 
settlement of the claim  which might suggest any increase in the cost of building 
materials has made the settlement insufficient to cover the legitimate costs of 
reinstating the annex;
Pay Mrs K and Mr Ks storage costs until either the reinstatement work is completed, 
or it should reasonably have been completed  and in any case at least until mid-
2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 Neil Marshall
Ombudsman