DRN-3710998
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
The background to this case is well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat it in full 
here. Ill summarise the facts briefly. 
In April 2021, Mr S fell victim to a scam. He was contacted on social media by a business on 
that he thought would assist him with paying off debts he owed. It showed him evidence that 
it had successfully reduced the debts of other clients and persuaded Mr S it could assist him 
in the same way. Unfortunately, that business wasnt legitimate but a scam.
Mr S was persuaded to transfer over £3,000 to an account controlled by the scammer. When 
their promises didnt materialise, he realised he must have fallen victim to a scam and so he 
notified Monzo. It didnt agree to reimburse him. It said that Mr S didnt take enough steps to 
check who he was paying and ensure it was a genuine offer. It also said that hed seen a 
warning as part of the payment process and ignored what it said.
Mr S wasnt happy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. She considered the complaint under the 
terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which Monzo has agreed to 
adhere to. Under that Code, the starting point is that Monzo ought to reimburse a customer 
who has fallen victim to a scam like this one. However, it doesnt have to do so in full if it can 
show that one of the exceptions to reimbursement set out in the code is applicable in the 
circumstances of the case.
The Investigator agreed that Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis to believe that he was 
dealing with a legitimate business. However, she wasnt persuaded that Monzo had 
displayed an effective warning. Under the terms of the CRM Code, she concluded it needed 
to refund 50% of the money Mr S lost to the scam
Monzo didnt agree with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I accept that, when Mr S made these payments, he sincerely believed that it was a genuine 
opportunity that would allow him to reduce his outgoings. However, I have to consider 
whether that belief was a reasonable one and Im not persuaded it was.
There were no formalities to this arrangement  for example, there was no set of terms and 
conditions provided to Mr S, which is something youd expect from a legitimately operating 
business. From the evidence Ive seen, there was no attempt by the scammer to explain how 
they managed to reduce their clients bills. It seems to me that Mr S made these payments in 
hope, rather than expectation. I think he really ought to have proceeded with far greater 
caution here and carried out further research before agreeing to make these payments. 
Overall, Im persuaded that he didnt have a reasonable basis of belief here.
Monzo has also cited the warning that was displayed to Mr S during the payment process. 
I agree with the Investigator that the warning didnt meet the definition of an Effective 
Warning as described in the CRM Code. It was insufficiently specific and attempted to warn 
against several different scam types. As a result, it wouldnt have been particularly impactful 
in terms of protecting Mr S from this particular scam. Monzo has pointed out the Code only 
expects warnings to be tailored on the basis of scam type where possible.  However, the 
warning that was displayed doesnt appear to have been tailored based on payment type, 
rather it was a broad warning designed to cover multiple scam types.
In summary, and in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr S ought to 
have had concerns about the legitimacy of the offer hed found on social media and that  
ought to have led to him carrying out further checks. In not doing so, I dont find he had a 
reasonable basis for believing this offer was genuine.  However, I also dont think Monzo has 
been able to demonstrate that it provided an effective warning to him. I therefore consider, 
in line with the provisions of the CRM code, liability should be shared equally between 
Monzo and Mr S.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.
Monzo Bank Limited should reimburse Mr S 50% of the money he lost to the scam. It should 
also add 8% simple interest to that sum calculated to run from the date it declined his claim 
under the CRM until the date it pays the settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman