DRN-2577731
The complaint
Mrs B and Mrs J are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined their 
application to open an account without providing justification for doing so. Theyre also 
unhappy with the service they received when applying. 
What happened
Mrs B has told us that she called the account opening team at NatWest who said they 
werent able to help and told her to go into branch. But when she visited a branch, she was 
told they were no longer opening accounts as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The branch 
raised a complaint on her behalf. 
 
Mrs B says she then applied online but received a rejection letter on 14 October 2020. She 
was unhappy with the explanation provided. She had told us that shes disappointed 
because she had been a customer for 50 years and never received correspondence about 
her ability to manage her account. 
NatWest spoke to Mrs B about her complaint over the telephone in October 2020 and 
responded on 3 November 2020. They partly upheld the complaint as she had been given 
incorrect information about going into branch. But they didnt agree they had acted unfairly 
by declining her application and said they werent obliged to provide a reason as to why the 
application was declined. 
However, Mrs B responded on 8 November 2020 and said they hadnt provided any 
evidence to show they had completed a full investigation. She felt that she had managed her 
accounts well and found the comments contrary and insulting. NatWest responded on 13 
November and said they felt they had investigated the complaint thoroughly. 
Mrs B and Mrs J remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. In the view, the investigator 
explained that he felt that the apology and £75 compensation paid to Mrs B was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. He didnt ask them to do anything further. Mrs B and 
Mrs J didnt accept the view. Therefore, the complaint passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have accepted that Mrs B was wrongly told to go into branch to open an account 
when they werent providing this service. I agree that Mrs B was misinformed and was 
therefore inconvenienced when she took the time to visit a branch.  
Ive also considered the letter sent by NatWest on 14 October 2020 which informed Mrs B 
that they couldnt approve her application. I can see they said they considered a range of 
information including data from credit reference agencies, her application and how she 
managed her account. NatWest said that after considering this information, specifically 
account performance, they couldnt approve the account. 
Mrs B has explained she was particularly distressed by NatWests comments regarding her 
account performance. In their response on 3 November 2020, NatWest explained that the 
account opening team had said they werent obliged to provide a reason. They reiterated 
that there were extensive criteria which needed to be met and apologised for the 
inconvenience caused. Although I can understand how Mrs B feels about the wording in the 
letter, NatWest clarified that they werent obliged to give a reason in response to her 
complaint and that they had considered a range of factors.
  
However, NatWest have provided us with an explanation and evidence which shows why the 
application was declined. Ive considered this carefully and having reviewed it, Im satisfied 
NatWest would treat any customer in the same situation as Mrs B and Mrs J in the same 
way. Therefore, Im not persuaded theyve acted unfairly.  
Unfortunately, its not possible for me to share this information. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mrs B and Mrs J who feel NatWest have not provided evidence or justified 
why theyve declined the application. In response to the view, Mrs B also explained her 
understanding of the reasons about why a bank wouldnt open an account. She says she 
cannot guess what other criteria she has been unable to satisfy, but if theyd published their 
requirements via their website then she wouldnt have attempted to open an account with 
them. 
However, if NatWest were to provide information about their lending criteria then it could 
affect how they run as a business. This type of information is described as commercially 
sensitive and NatWest arent obliged to disclose it. Therefore, I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong here. 
NatWest have also provided a contact number and have suggested that Mrs B may find it 
easier to make an application over the telephone. In response to the view, Mrs B asked why 
NatWests customer service team didnt take the matter forward in this way when she made 
a complaint. However, in their letter of 14 October 2020, NatWest said they might be able to 
consider another application if the circumstances changed. Therefore, Im not persuaded 
theyve acted unreasonably by later saying Mrs B could call them. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc have apologised and credited £75 to Mrs B as 
compensation. This is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I wont be asking 
them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman