DRN-4240895
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) incorrectly told him he could be removed 
from a joint account held with his ex-wife. Mr H says the outstanding overdraft balance on 
the joint account is affecting the amount of money he can borrow for a mortgage and he 
wants Lloyds to write this off and remove his name from the account.
What happened
Mr H and his ex-wife hold a joint account with an arranged overdraft with Lloyds. Mr H says 
he contacted Lloyds by phone to query if he could be removed from the account if he paid 
half the outstanding balance of the overdraft which amounted to around £450. Mr H says he 
was told to visit a Lloyds branch to complete the relevant forms. 
When Mr H visited the branch he was told by the branch manager that it wasnt possible to 
carry out his request without the joint account holder present and while the account was in 
arrears. Mr H then phoned Lloyds whilst in the branch and was told again that he could be 
removed from the account in branch.
Mr H complained. Lloyds upheld Mr Hs complaint and apologised that he had been 
misadvised over the phone and paid Mr H £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Lloyds explained that it wasnt able to remove either party from the joint account without the 
balance being cleared and without both parties signing a form.
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr H doesnt think 
the compensation is enough and didnt think Lloyds had resolved the issue regarding the 
removal of his name from the joint account which he no longer uses.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that the 
£50 compensation Lloyds offered for providing incorrect information was a fair way to settle 
the complaint and didnt agree that Lloyds should write off the remaining overdraft balance 
on the account as the debt is the responsibility of both account holders. They also didnt 
think there was any evidence to show that Lloyds actions had caused his mortgage offer to 
decrease.  
Mr H disagrees and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain my role is to look at the problems Mr H has experienced and see if 
Lloyds has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr H back in the 
position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened and I may award 
compensation that is fair and reasonable. 
And in this case its not disputed that Lloyds provided incorrect information to Mr H regarding 
having his name removed from the joint account he holds with his ex-wife. To put things right 
Lloyds compensated Mr H £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr H doesnt believe this is enough as it hasnt dealt with the crux of the issue  that his 
name is still on the account and he is still liable for the overdraft debt. Mr H wants Lloyds to 
write off the debt and remove his name from the account.
Lloyds have told us that a joint account can be transferred to a sole account provided the 
overdraft is cleared, both parties consent and there are no account disputes. I accept how 
frustrated Mr H is by this as he no longer uses the account and he has some concerns that if 
he pays off the overdraft his ex-wife could run up the overdraft again. But ultimately the 
account is jointly held which means both parties are equally responsible for the management 
of the account and liable for any outstanding debt, whichever party spent the money.
Nevertheless, I can see that things have moved on and Lloyds have placed a Notice of 
Dispute indicator on the account which would ordinarily mean both account holders would 
now need to sign to process any transaction on the account. But because Lloyds can see 
there has been no activity on the account for a number of months it has suggested that to 
assist Mr H, he can make an appointment at a branch, pay off the overdraft and the 
necessary actions will be taken and the account will be closed. Which although I think it has 
taken too long to get to this place - given that what Mr H ultimately wants is to have all 
financial ties severed with his ex-wife - I think is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H is also unhappy as he believes the outstanding overdraft balance has also led to a 
reduction in his mortgage offer. Mr H has provided a copy of his mortgage application as 
evidence of this. But there are a number of factors which determine how much a bank will 
lend and having looked at Mr Hs mortgage application I can see he has lending in other 
places in excess of what is owed on the overdraft. So I dont think it can be concluded it was 
his overdraft alone that led to the reduction. 
And even if it is the outstanding overdraft being reported on his credit file which has led to a 
reduction of borrowing on offer  I cant say Lloyds have made a mistake here as this is an 
accurate reflection of the accounts Mr H holds.
So it follows that I think what Lloyds has already agreed to do assist Mr H is a fair way to 
settle his complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Lloyds Bank PLC have agreed to do is a fair way 
to settle Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman