DRN-4269104
The complaint
Mr G complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) failed to do enough to protect him 
when he fell victim to a crypto investment scam.
What happened
Mr G was contacted by a woman, who Ill refer to as C on an online dating platform. After a 
few weeks of contact and building what Mr G believed to be a genuine romantic relationship, 
C shared that she was a financial adviser and was making significant profits trading in Forex. 
Mr G was persuaded to start investing. C advised Mr G to set up an account with a crypto 
exchange, which Ill refer to as B, and transfer his funds from there to an investment trading 
platform. Transfers to B were made via another company, which Ill refer to as S, who 
acted as a payment processor for B. 
Mr G initially invested £100, which he paid using a credit card he held with another bank. He 
then started making transfers direct from his accounts held with CBS. Between 
29 March 2022 and 8 April 2022 Mr G transferred £91,700 from his MoneyManager and ISA 
accounts held with CBS to B:
Date Account Transaction type Amount
29 March 2022 MoneyManager Faster Payment to B £1,000
30 March 2022 MoneyManager Faster Payment to B £5,200
4 April 2022 ISA Faster Payment to B £20,000
5 April 2022 ISA Faster Payment to B £20,000
6 April 2022 ISA Faster Payment to B £13,000
7 April 2022 ISA Faster Payment to B £20,000
8 April 2022 ISA Faster Payment to B £12,500
Total £91,700
Mr G saw good returns on his initial investments and was able to withdraw £708.93 from the 
trading account on 31 March 2023, which reassured him the investments were genuine.
Before processing Mr Gs transaction on 4 April 2022, CBS contacted him to ask what the 
payment was for. Mr G confirmed that he intended to invest in Forex, that hed done it before 
and had made profits. He also confirmed that he was not being forced to make the payments 
by anyone else. Based on Mr Gs answers CBS processed his payment instruction. CBS had 
no further contact with Mr G before processing his other payment instructions.
Mr G saw his investments continuing to make profits, but when he tried to make a withdrawal 
from the trading account, he was advised that he needed to pay 40% tax, and that it could 
not be covered from the funds in the account. At this stage Mr G realised hed been the 
victim of a scam. Mr G was able to recover £12,498 from his crypto wallet account, as he 
had not yet transferred it to the trading account (I have assumed this amount was £2 less 
than his payment in due to processing fees charged by B). He was not able to withdraw any 
further money from the trading account. Meaning his total loss to the scam was £78,491.07, 
taking into account the £708.93 hed successfully withdrawn. Mr G later complained to CBS 
that it hadnt done enough to protect him from falling victim to the scam.
CBS considered what had happened but said it would not reimburse Mr G for the money he 
had lost. It said it had contacted Mr G before he made the first £20,000 payment and it had 
warned him about scams and that he could lose money. It also noted that the payments all 
went to a crypto wallet account that Mr G owned and controlled.
Mr G was unhappy with CBSs response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman, with the help of a professional representative (Ill refer to as R). Our 
Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While he agreed CBSs intervention could have 
gone further, he wasnt persuaded it would have made a difference to Mr Gs decision to 
invest. Our Investigator thought the fact that Mr G had built what he thought was a romantic 
relationship with C would have led him to trust what she had told him and so he would most 
likely have continued to invest regardless of CBSs intervention.
R disagreed on Mr Gs behalf and asked for this complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. It said CBSs intervention did not go far enough to understand the risks of 
Mr Gs proposed payments. It should have asked detailed open questions to understand 
what the fraud risk was. Had it done so it would have established that Mr G was making 
payments to a crypto exchange and that hed been introduced to the investment by someone 
hed only recently met on a dating website. At this point the scam would have been exposed 
and Mr Gs loss avoided.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 July 2023 explaining why I was minded to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. I have set out my provisional findings below, but in summary, I explained 
that I considered that had CBS intervened as Id have expected it to before processing 
Mr Gs £5,200 payment the scam could have been uncovered and his losses from that point 
could have been avoided:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our Investigator, I think CBSs intervention when Mr G attempted his first payment of 
£20,000 didnt go far enough in understanding the reason for Mr Gs payment or the 
potential risks involved with it. But unlike our Investigator, I consider that had CBS 
intervened as I would have expected it to, I think its more likely than not the scam would 
have been uncovered and Mr Gs losses would most likely have been prevented.
It is accepted that Mr G authorised the payments from his CBS accounts into his crypto 
wallet, which were then transferred into the control of the scammers. So, although he 
didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr G is presumed liable for his loss in 
the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a valid 
payment instruction has been received CBSs obligation is to follow the instructions that 
he provides.
However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a 
bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.This service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry 
practice in many previous decisions published on our website. So, I wont repeat them 
here.
While CBSs first obligation is to follow Mr Gs payment instructions, if an instruction is
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id reasonably expect it to 
intervene and ask questions about the reasons for making the payment before processing 
it. Id also expect it to provide appropriate warnings about common scams to help its 
customers make an informed decision whether to continue with the payment or not. There 
might also be cases where it would be reasonable for a bank to refuse to follow a 
payment instruction if there were sufficient grounds to believe it was being made because 
of a fraud or scam.
I should note that this duty applies whether the loss occurred from CBSs account, or at
some later point in the payment journey. So, while I understand that CBS has suggested 
it is not responsible for Mr Gs loss as the funds were transferred to a crypto wallet in his 
own name, this does not absolve it of its responsibility to intervene if it had grounds to 
believe its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Mr Gs losses, though not 
arising from the initial transfer, ought to have been within the contemplation of, and 
reasonably foreseeable to, CBS. So, Im satisfied it can be held responsible for the loss 
Mr G suffered.
CBS has demonstrated that it did have systems in place to identify unusual transactions 
or other indicators that its customers may be at risk of fraud. Indeed, it recognised 
unusual account activity and stepped in to question Mr Gs transaction on 4 April 2022. 
The issue for me to decide is whether CBSs intervention was good enough.
Did CBS do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
While its good to see CBS had taken some steps to identify a transaction that was out of
character for Mr G  the payment of £20,000 on 4 April 2022 - I dont think its intervention
came soon enough, nor did its questioning go far enough.
Between 29 and 30 March 2022 Mr G had paid £6,200 to a new payee, which happened 
to be a crypto exchange. From the limited bank statements weve been provided with, I 
cant see that this was in keeping with Mr Gs usual account usage. It appears that Mr G 
used his MoneyManager account to receive his wages and to make two regular monthly 
direct debits. Theres no evidence of him making large payments from that account prior 
to 29 March 2023. 
Similarly, his ISA account appears to have been used purely for savings prior to April 
2023. While I can accept that a single large payment to a new payee may not appear, on 
its own, particularly unusual or suspicious, I think the second payment of £5,200 was 
sufficiently large (especially when combined with the payment from the day before) and 
out of character for Mr G to give CBS cause for concern that he may be at risk of financial 
harm. Yet Ive seen no evidence that CBS intervened in any way before processing this 
payment on 30 March 2022.
CBS contacted Mr G before processing his payment instruction on 4 April 2022. By this
stage there were clear warning signs that Mr G was falling victim to a scam and yet CBS
questioning didnt uncover the basic facts that would have highlighted this.
Having listened to the call, I note that Mr G sounded somewhat hesitant or nervous when 
he said that he was putting [money] into foreign exchange. Yet the adviser accepted Mr 
Gs answer without any follow up questions about his intended investment. CBS ought to have asked Mr G probing questions about his proposed investment - such as how hed 
heard about it, what his expected returns would be or whether he was being advised 
about the proposed investment. The purpose of these probing questions ought to have 
been to seek to break through the spell cast by a potential scammer.
Had Mr G been asked follow-up questions as Id have expected, I think its likely he would
have revealed that hed recently been introduced to the investment by a friend/ partner. I
have no reason to think that Mr G would not have answered questions openly and 
honestly, especially given he had revealed he was investing in Forex and theres no 
evidence he was given a cover story. Given the prevalence of investment scams linked to 
romance scams, I think reasonable probing could also have uncovered that Mr G had 
only been in contact with C for a few months and they had never met face to face.
Had Mr G been asked where his payment was going it would have been uncovered that 
he was purchasing crypto that would then be used to invest in Forex. This ought to have 
given rise to further questions about why Mr G needed to transfer his money into crypto 
before investing in Forex. Further reasonable probing would also have uncovered that Mr 
Gs experience of investment was only in the days leading up to this significant payment, 
and so he wasnt an experienced investor. His returns from the investment (£708.93 on
31 March 2023) had also only been made in the recent days. CBS ought to have been
aware that its not unusual in scams such as this for a consumer to receive returns early 
in the scam, as this helps to build trust and encourages them to make more payments. 
So, the fact that Mr G had invested before and had received some small returns, should 
not have been enough to reassure CBS that Mr G wasnt being scammed.
While the adviser also gave Mr G a generic warning about fraud and scams, and that his
money could be at risk, she didnt offer a tailored warning regarding the specific risks 
around crypto investment scams. I dont think the generic warning was specific enough to 
have resonated with Mr G that he may have been falling victim to a scam.
Overall, Im not persuaded CBSs level of questioning went far enough here. While I 
accept that the payment purpose given by Mr G was plausible, CBS ought to have been 
aware of the scam risks surrounding Forex investments and payments to crypto 
exchanges. As such I think it should have done more to protect Mr G. It was the expert, 
but it failed to seek sufficient information to understand the nature of Mr Gs payments. 
Had it intervened appropriately, I think it would have recognised that the payments Mr G 
was attempting to make bore hallmarks of a crypto investment/romance scam. In the 
absence of any evidence to suggest otherwise, I think Mr G would most likely have 
heeded the warning from his bank advising him his payments were likely the result of a 
scam. I think Mr Gs losses from that date onwards could therefore have been prevented.
Should Mr G bear some responsibility for his loss?
I have thought carefully about whether Mr G should bear some responsibility for his loss 
by way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). But I 
dont think he should.
Unfortunately, Mr G fell victim to a cruel and sophisticated scam, where social 
engineering techniques were used to manipulate him. In the circumstances I dont think 
Mr Gs actions, or inactions, fell far below the standard of care expected of a reasonable 
person. Overall, I think a reasonable person could similarly have been persuaded to 
invest in what, on the face of it, appeared to be a good investment opportunity and that 
was seemingly providing returns.
Ultimately, CBS was best placed to warn Mr G of the risks associated with his proposedpayment, but it failed to do so.
Overall, I think CBS should have intervened before processing Mr Gs payment of £5,200.
Had it done so, I think its more likely than not Mr G would have decided not to go ahead 
with the payment and his losses from that point could have been prevented.
To put things right I am currently minded to tell CBS to refund the £77,491.07 Mr G lost to
the scam from 30 March 2022 onwards. It should add 8% simple interest, per year, from 
the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
R responded on Mr Gs behalf, confirming his acceptance of my provisional decision. CBS 
did not understand why I had reached a different view to that of our Investigator and asked 
that I consider some further points. In summary it said: 
It noted Mr G had said he suffered from crippling anxiety and freezes up when on 
the phone. It suggested that this may have been the reason for him sounding 
hesitant or nervous. 
It had to be realistic about the level of probing questions it asked in any case. The 
adviser made an appropriate judgement call when she was reassured by Mr Gs 
statement that he was an experienced investor and had received returns. 
It could not reasonably have known that Mr Gs payment were going to a crypto  
provider, and it was unclear if Mr G was aware his funds would be converted into a 
digital currency. 
Even if it had done more to intervene, Mr G believed he was in a genuine and 
trusting relationship and no amount of probing or warnings would have broken the 
spell he was under. 
Mr G should bear some responsibility for the losses he suffered. The dating site Mr G 
used has lots of negative reviews which specifically refer to matches convincing 
users to invest in crypto. Mr G should have been more cautious before deciding to 
invest his entire life savings into investments recommended by someone hed met 
less than a month before.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
Although neither party has responded to this aspect of my provisional decision, I remain of 
the view that Mr Gs £5,200 payment on 30 March 2022 should have triggered. As such, I 
have focused on what would most likely have happened had CBS intervened as Id have 
expected it to. 
I accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying if a consumer is at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud, while enabling legitimate payments to be made with minimal 
disruption. But when a bank identifies a payment that is suspicious or out of character, it 
should ask enough questions to understand the purpose of the payment and if its customer 
is at risk of financial harm due to fraud if they were to carry out the payment. 
My concern in this case is that when CBS did intervene regarding one of Mr Gs later 
payments, it didnt ask sufficient probing questions to understand the purpose of the 
payment, and so CBS failed to utilise the opportunity it had to uncover the facts that pointed 
to this being a scam. For example, CBS has said that its adviser did not know that the payment was going to crypto, because the payment appeared to be going to S. But crucially 
Mr G believed he was paying B direct, and the funds instantly credited his account with B. 
Had the adviser asked Mr G where his payment was going, I think its most likely he would 
have said B, at which point CBS would have known he was purchasing crypto. This would 
then likely have set it on the path to discovering that the circumstances of Mr Gs payment 
bore the hallmarks of a scam. 
While it is not up to the Financial Ombudsman to dictate which questions CBS should ask, I 
think it couldve, for example, asked how Mr G had found out about the investment 
opportunity in the first place, and whether he was being advised or assisted by a third party.
If CBS had asked such further questions and more of the surrounding context to the 
payment, I consider its likely that Mr G would have revealed that the investment had been 
recommended by a friend/partner, that his previous payment had been loaded onto an online 
trading account (that is well known by banks to be used by scammers) and that hed 
received profits in the last few days. I think these circumstances should have given CBS 
enough reason to be concerned that Mr G may be falling victim to a scam. Given that Mr Gs 
payments were also going to B, a well-known crypto exchange, I think CBS should have 
provided a tailored scam warning given what it knew at the time about the increasing number 
of scams associated with crypto. I think it may also have been appropriate for CBS to have 
advised Mr G about the risks associated with romance scams, given the investment had 
been recommended by C, who Mr G had not met in person. 
Ive noted CBSs concerns that any intervention from CBS may not have been enough to 
break the scammers spell, as Mr G believed he was in a genuine, trusting relationship. But 
even if CBSs warning was not enough to make Mr G doubt his relationship with C, I think it 
would most likely have been enough to break the spell regarding the investment. Mr G 
appears to have been a cautious inexperienced investor. Hed previously saved money in a 
cash ISA. When presented with the fact that his money would have been at risk if he went 
ahead with the payment, I think its more likely than not Mr G would have decided this was 
too great a risk to take and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the £5,200 payment, or any of 
the payments that followed. 
Finally, Ive thought again about whether Mr G should bear some responsibility for his loss, 
and again I dont think he should. I appreciate there has been a rise in the number of 
scammers exploiting online dating sites, and as a result there has been a significant rise in 
the number of people falling victim to the same type of scam as Mr G. But I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect an individual to seek out reviews of the online dating site before 
deciding whether to make an investment. Its undisputed that Mr G believed he had made a 
genuine connection with an individual he met through the dating website. At this point the 
scammer exploited Mr Gs vulnerability in the circumstances and groomed him so that the 
prospect of investing together seemed reasonable to him. 
I appreciate that Mr G didnt do much, if any, independent research into the investment 
opportunity before making payments to it. But, having conducted my own research, I have 
not found any clear or compelling evidence at the time that would have revealed to Mr G that 
the investment opportunity was in fact a scam. So, Im not persuaded Mr Gs lack of due 
diligence led to his losses. But I nevertheless consider that CBS, as the expert in this 
situation, should have deduced from the circumstances that he was in fact falling victim to a 
scam, and it should therefore have taken steps to warn him of this.      
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Coventry Building Society to: Reimburse Mr G £77,491.07; and 
Add 8% simple interest to that sum from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman