DRN-3535991
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined their claim for accidental damage to a bath under their home insurance policy. 
Ill refer to Mrs H throughout my decision as the primary complainant for ease of reading. 
What happened
Mrs H uses a plastic stool in her bath to help with her mobility issues. One of the legs broke 
on the stool. She says this caused damaged to the bath in the form of a chip that cant be 
repaired. 
Lloyds arranged for the damaged bath to be inspected. It didnt think the damage was 
caused by a one-off event. It thought it was more likely to have been caused by wear and 
tear, which was excluded under Mrs Hs policy. Because of this it declined her claim.
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service and a final decision was issued in January 2022. 
Our ombudsman didnt uphold her complaint. But she did say if one of the plumbers who 
inspected Mrs Hs bath was able to send a report, Lloyds should reconsider its decision to 
decline the claim. 
Lloyds has since reconsidered Mrs Hs claim based on a letter from her plumber. It 
maintained its decline decision. But because of a delay in responding it paid £100 
compensation to Mrs H. 
Mrs H didnt think this was fair and again referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He didnt think the letter from Mrs Hs plumber 
showed that Lloyds should change its decline decision. He also thought its compensation 
payment was fair for the delayed response. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs H s complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mrs H previously complained about an escape of water that caused damage to her bathroom 
floor. This was subject to a final decision by another ombudsman at our service and doesnt 
form part of my considerations here. My role here is to consider whether Lloyds treated Mrs 
H fairly when maintaining its decline decision about accidental damage to her bath. This 
followed its review of the new evidence provided by her plumber. Lloyds had originally 
thought the damage was the result of wear and tear, which it says isnt something covered 
by its policy. 
I have read the letter from Mrs Hs plumber dated in February 2022. This says:
In my opinion as a plumber the hole in the bath was not caused by wear and tear but was I 
[sic] fact caused by a one-off event/accidental damage. 
the hole was caused by a stool needing to be used in the bath it is clear this damage would 
have been unintentional as Mrs [H] needs to use the stool to access the bath due to her 
mobility issues. Lloyde [sic] insurance repoted [sic] the bath material being cast iron this 
incorrect [sic] and is fact [sic] stainless Steel. 
this is relevant as Steel is a less solid material than cast iron. 
I therefore confirm the hole in the bathwss [sic] a result of accidental damage with the use of 
the stool which caused the leak. In my opinion disagree with Lloyds report on this basis.   
In response to the plumbers letter Lloyds says there is no explanation of how the plastic 
stool could cause the damage as a one-off event/accident. It says it doesnt think the letter is 
reason to overturn the findings of its surveyor who inspected the bath. 
Lloyds says its opinion remains that the bath had deteriorated over a period of time due to 
wear and tear. Likely due to the use of the small plastic stool that the bath is not designed 
for. It says the damage in the photos supports the bath having been worn down gradually.  
I note Lloyds refers to the chip in the bath being smooth/worn around the edges. It says 
there is no sign of a sudden impact such as a jagged rough area and cracks. 
Ive examined the photos provided of the damaged bath. I dont dispute Mrs Hs recollection 
of how the damage occurred. But I think the photos support Lloydss view that the damage is 
something that has developed over time. I acknowledge the plumbers reference to the bath 
being made of steel not cast iron. But I think Lloydss view that either of these materials are 
unlikely to be damaged in a one-off event by a plastic stool is persuasive.
Mrs Hs policy terms, under the section entitled, Accidental damage cover say:
Examples of accidental damage are smashing a window, cracking a bathroom sink or 
putting your foot through the ceiling whilst in the loft. These have to be sudden, unintentional 
and unexpected one off incidents.
It does not mean damage caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance, mechanical 
faults, or damage which is deliberate or occurs gradually over a period of time.
Based on this I dont think Mrs Hs policy provides cover for the damage claimed. 
I can see that Mrs H sent Lloyds her plumbers letter in February 2022. It didnt respond to 
her until six weeks later to maintain its decline decision. I think its reasonable to expect 
Lloyds to provide a response sooner than it did. It doesnt dispute this point. I can also see 
that Mrs H had to chase for a response which was inconvenient for her. In the circumstances 
described I think its fair that Lloyds paid £100 compensation to acknowledge the impact of 
its delayed response.
Having considered all of this I dont think Lloyds treated Mrs H unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms and declining her claim for the damage to her bath for the reasons it gave. I 
dont think the time it took to respond to her further evidence was reasonable. But I think paying £100 compensation to acknowledge this was fair. So, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to 
do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman