DRN-1268725
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a secured 
loan. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them the 
PPI.
What happened
In 1994 Mr and Mrs G took out a secured loan for £3,000 from BoS and at that time they 
were also sold a regular premium PPI policy. The policy cost £4.38 a month and protected 
their loan repayments if Mr G was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This PPI sale took place a very long time ago, so its not that surprising that the paperwork 
completed then hasnt been retained by either Mr and Mrs G or BoS. Businesses arent 
required to keep such information for this length of time. Mr and Mrs G say the loan was 
taken out in a branch, but they have no recollection of PPI being discussed with them at the 
time and didnt realise theyd taken out this cover. 
In these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based 
on the very limited information now available, including what I know about similar sales by 
BoS at around this time.
BoS says this was an advised sale and as the PPI was attached to a secured loan I think 
this is most likely to have been the case. And Ive no particularly strong reason to think that 
BoS departed from its normal practice in such sales and didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs G 
that the PPI was optional. I fully accept that Mr and Mrs G dont now remember the PPI 
being discussed with them, but memories of such conversations do tend to fade with time.
It would have been a serious failing on the part of BoS to have opened this PPI policy for 
Mr and Mrs G without having first obtained their agreement to take it. And I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that this is what BoS is likely to have done here. Nor have I 
seen any wider problems with BoS PPI sales process at around this time.So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that BoS didnt make Mr and Mrs G aware 
that the PPI was optional and obtain their agreement to take it. I think its more likely that it 
followed its standard sales process and that they chose to take out the policy at the time. But 
I can understand why they wouldnt recall doing so after so many years.
As this was an advised sale, BoS needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs G. I dont know how it did this. But from what I know about Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr G appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. 
 
Mr G says he was eligible for generous sick pay. But this policy could potentially pay 
out for up to sixty months if Mr G was unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness, which is much longer than his sick pay would have lasted. It would also 
have given up to twelve months protection if Mr G had become unemployed. And it 
doesnt seem that Mr and Mrs G had any other way of making their loan repayments 
if Mr G couldnt work, other than relying on Mrs Gs part-time salary. So I think that 
Mr and Mrs G would have valued the extra security that this policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs G. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by them if it no longer met 
their needs.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs G enough clear information about the policy for them to 
decide if they wanted it. I think its possible that the information it gave them could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs G, I dont think that better information would have changed their minds about 
buying it. I think theyd still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at an 
affordable price.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs G have lost out by anything that BoS may have done wrong 
when it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs G have said about why they still think the PPI 
was mis-sold. But this doesnt change my mind about not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman