DRN-2910992
The complaint
Miss K complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement financed by PCF Bank Limited (PCF.) 
What happened
In June 2020 Miss K acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. Miss K says 
there was some damage to the paintwork when she viewed the car, and the dealership told 
her this would be repaired. Miss K says when she collected the car it looked fine, but after a 
car wash the damage to the paintwork could be seen, so she thinks it was temporarily fixed 
before she collected it. 
Miss K told us that shortly after acquiring the car she noticed the passenger door didnt 
unlock, and she had to fill the coolant tank regularly. Miss K took the car to a local garage in 
August 2020 because she was topping up the coolant daily and paid around £600 for a 
replacement water pump. 
In December 2020, Miss K complained to the dealership and PCF about the damage to the 
paintwork, issues with the suspension and the coolant leak. She said she didnt complain to 
them sooner, because she didnt know she could. 
PCF arranged for an inspection of Miss Ks car and sent her a final response to her 
complaint in February 2021. They said that because the water pump had been replaced 
before shed contacted them, they hadnt had a chance to inspect this, and so wouldnt be 
responsible for the cost of this repair. They said that the damage to the paintwork was in line 
with the age of the car, and there was no evidence of an agreement between Miss K and the 
dealership to repair this before the car was acquired. They also said the suspension needed 
repairs as a result of normal wear and tear. So, they thought the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Miss K and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Miss K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Miss K, he thought the damage to the paintwork was in line with the age of the car, 
the suspension was due to normal wear and tear, and that the coolant leak was unlikely to 
have been present or developing at the point of sale. So, he thought the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Miss K, and that PCF didnt need to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Miss K disagrees. She says she had to get the coolant leak fixed as she needed the car, and 
the paint damage wasnt in line with the price she paid for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement  so we 
can consider a complaint relating to it. PCF as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include, amongst other, things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the 
cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £15,000. It was seven years old 
and had travelled around 73,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a used 
car like Miss Ks, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a 
new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is 
reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. 
At the time that PCF arranged an inspection of Miss Ks car, it had travelled around 79,000 
miles. So, Miss K had driven it around 6,000 miles since acquiring it. The inspection details 
that parts of the suspension do need to be replaced, but it says this is due to normal wear of 
the parts. 
The parts of the suspension on a vehicle are subject to wear over time. I think, at seven 
years old and having covered around 79,000 miles, a reasonable person might expect some 
wear to the vehicle and that some repairs might be needed after a reasonable amount of 
time. With this in mind, along with the mileage that Miss K has driven in the vehicle, Im not 
persuaded that the fault with the suspension was present at the point of sale, so it doesnt 
make the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality at the time that Miss K acquired it. 
Ive seen photos of the damage to the paintwork that Miss K has asked PCF to repair. The 
paintwork has been damaged by stone chips, and some scratches on the sides of the car.
Miss K says these were evident when she first viewed the car but had been temporarily fixed 
when she acquired it. Its difficult to say what was discussed between Mrs K and the 
dealership prior to the car being acquired. But I havent seen any evidence of a repair which 
has then failed. I also think it would be reasonable to expect Miss K to have contacted the 
dealership if a repair theyd agreed to carry out had failed, but theres no evidence that she 
did this. 
Im not persuaded that there was an agreement to rectify all paintwork damage to the vehicle 
prior to the sale. I think a reasonable person would expect some cosmetic damage on a car 
of this age and mileage, and so Im not persuaded that the damage to the paintwork made 
the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K. 
Miss K experienced problems with the coolant levels in the vehicle, and when she took this 
to a local garage, they told her she was unable to drive the car until it was repaired, as this 
could damage the engine. Miss K needed the vehicle to get around, so she paid for the 
water pump to be replaced to resolve this fault. 
PCF say that because Miss K didnt report the problem to them, they couldnt inspect the 
vehicle, so they werent liable for the cost of this repair. The inspection that PCF carried out concludes that had the water pump needed to be 
replaced when Miss K acquired the car, shed only have been able to drive it about 1,000 
miles before having to carry out this work. As Miss K had driven further than this, the 
engineer didnt think the fault was present or developing at the point of sale. The inspection 
report also highlights that water pumps often suffer from deterioration. 
With this in mind, Im persuaded by the what the report says, and I dont think its likely this 
fault was present at the point of sale. 
All things considered, I find that the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied 
to Miss K. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman