DRN-3644191
The complaint
Miss R says MBNA Limited (MBNA) incorrectly recorded a default on her credit file when 
her credit card account with them was included in a Debt Management Plan (DMP).   
What happened
Miss R held a credit card account with MBNA with a credit limit of £10,000.
In or around February 2022, Miss R contacted MBNA. She said she was experiencing 
financial difficulties and was struggling to maintain her contractual minimum monthly 
payments. 
She subsequently told MBNA she was talking to a debt management company (DMC). So, 
MBNA agreed to provide 30 days breathing space while she explored her options. They also 
agreed to temporarily waive interest charges and confirmed this in a letter to her.
Having discussed her situation with the DMC, a DMP was proposed. The DMC provided 
details of this to MBNA proposing a monthly payment to reduce and repay the amount Miss 
R owed. MBNA accepted the proposal, but a payment was rejected as the DMC hadnt 
quoted the correct reference. This was subsequently resolved, brought up to date and Miss 
R wasnt disadvantaged as a result.
Late in March 2022, MBNA wrote to Miss R. Given Miss Rs situation, they proposed to close 
her account. This meant she wouldnt incur any further charges and interest. MBNA said 
closure of the account meant they were required to send a default notice. They said Miss R 
could avoid closure of the account and a default if the full missed amount was repaid by the 
date shown within the default notice. 
While payments continued to be received by MBNA under the DMP, the amount required to 
avoid the account closure wasnt received. So, MBNA sent a default notice to Miss R in April 
2022 followed by a Credit Agreement Termination letter in May 2022. Miss Rs account was 
closed, and the outstanding debt transferred to MBNAs recoveries team. They also 
recorded a default on Miss Rs credit file.
Upon discovering the default on her credit file, Miss R didnt think this was right and 
complained to MBNA. Miss R said other credit card companies had recorded a special 
arrangement. She wanted MBNA to remove the default from her credit file and record a 
special arrangement like other businesses had. She said they were receiving the monthly 
amount agreed in the DMP.
In their response to Miss Rs complaint, MBNA didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. 
They said Miss R had demonstrated that her financial difficulties were going to be long term. 
So, theyd closed her account and confirmed this in a letter to her. Theyd also sent her a 
default notice and credit agreement termination letter.
Unhappy with MBNAs response, Miss R referred her complaint to this service. She said 
while MBNA have probably registered a default correctly, she thought they had a choice to 
record a special arrangement instead as other creditors had. She wanted MBNA to remove 
the default and record a special arrangement instead.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think MBNA had done 
anything wrong when they recorded a default on Miss Rs credit file. Miss R didnt agree. 
She said her account statements showed shed paid more than required under the DMP. 
And as theres no evidence that shed paid less than the minimum required, she thought a 
default wasnt appropriate here.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Rs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Miss Rs personal financial situation will be very concerning for her. And I think it 
was right that she contacted MBNA promptly to discuss her circumstances and agree a way 
forward.
MBNAs files and notes show they discussed Miss Rs situation at length and the various 
options available to her. During those discussions, MBNA highlighted organisations and 
businesses from which she could seek independent debt advice. This is what I would expect 
in these circumstances as it would ensure Miss R had access to appropriate support.
While Miss R considered her situation and options, MBNA agreed to provide 30 days 
breathing space waiving interest during that time. Again, I think this was appropriate and 
what I would expect them to do. So, I cant reasonably say MBNA did anything wrong here.
When a consumer cant make the contractual payments toward their debts and needs help 
dealing with the businesses they owe money to, a debt management organisation may offer 
to help. They can carry out debt counselling, debt adjusting, or both. Debt management 
organisations may be free of charge to use.
Having discussed her situation with a DMC, Miss R decided to enter a DMP. This was 
presented to MBNA who, in the knowledge of Miss Rs financial situation, accepted the 
proposed repayments under the debt management plan. However, the payments were at a 
level less than those required under the original credit card agreement. 
MBNAs website explains how credit card minimum payments are calculated. It says, The 
minimum payment we ask for is charged on a monthly basis and will be the higher of £25 or 
the total of:
Any interest charged, plus
Any default charge payable, plus
A percentage of the total balance you owe (including interest and charges as shown 
in line with your terms and conditions.
MBNA have confirmed that the minimum monthly payment Miss R was contractually 
required to pay was more than that offered under the DMC. So, while theyd agreed to 
accept the DMP proposed, this meant any shortfall would accrue as arrears.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. 
From the information Ive seen, it appears the arrears on Miss Rs account met this 
requirement. Although she maintained payments under the DMP, these were at a level lower 
than required under the credit card agreement. And as any shortfall constituted arrears, I 
cant reasonably say MBNA did anything wrong when they issued a default notice and 
recorded this on Miss Rs credit file.MBNA said a default would be recorded when they wrote to Miss R about her account 
closure and the default notice. So, it appears the consequences were made clear here.
Miss R says the payments shes made under the DMP were for more than the minimum 
required. While she may have paid more than originally agreed under the DMP, these 
payments were still less than those contractually required under the original credit card 
agreement.
Miss R says that other creditors havent recorded a default on her credit file; only that theres 
a special arrangement. Im unable to comment on what other businesses have done as they 
arent party to this complaint.
Once the DMP was agreed, MBNA chose to close Miss Rs account and transfer the 
remaining debt to their recoveries department. This is MBNAs process, and this service isnt 
able to comment on or change that. I would say this isnt unusual given Miss Rs account 
was no longer able to operate as a live and active account within the terms of the original 
agreement.
Miss R has also referred to subsequent issues she says shes had obtaining information 
from MBNA. As this doesnt form part of Miss Rs original complaint to MBNA, Im unable to 
consider that. Miss R believes these information requests would support her original 
complaint. I realise Miss R will be disappointed and I want to reassure her Ive considered 
everything shes told this service. But I cant reasonably find that MBNA did anything wrong 
here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman