DRN-2560417
The complaint
Ms A complains about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms A took out a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV to cover a holiday to the USA. 
That holiday took place in March 2019, but Ms A became unwell during it and was taken to 
hospital where she had an abscess drained. The hospital billed Ms A $3,350 and $1,503.56 
for her treatment. And in April 2019 she made a claim on her travel insurance policy. 
URV accepted Ms As claim and passed it on to its cost containment team in May 2019. It 
asked the hospital for specific documentation relating to the coding of Ms As treatment in 
June 2019 and also sent Ms A a letter of reassurance which explained the bills were being 
dealt with by its cost containment team; she would not be liable for the costs the hospital had 
claimed; and, she should send URV any correspondence she may go on to receive from the 
hospital, or those acting on its behalf. 
In July 2019 the hospital passed Ms As outstanding bills on to a debt collection agency, so 
URV contacted that agency to explain it was awaiting coding information. The coding 
information was received by URV in September 2019, and in October 2019 URV paid 
$413.33 and $603.71 towards the hospitals bills. But Ms A received debt collection letters in 
October 2019 and November 2019 for the outstanding amounts. So she complained.
In its final response to that complaint, URV said it had already accepted liability for Ms As 
claim and she wouldnt be held liable for any outstanding costs. It said that its cost 
containment team was involved in ongoing communication with the USA about the 
outstanding bills, and it asked Ms A to send in the debt collection letters shed received. URV 
also apologised for an internal delay it had identified (it had referred the matter to its cost 
containment team about a month later than it said it could have done) and offered Ms A 
£100 in compensation.
But Mrs A remained unhappy with URVs position and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but he didnt think URV had acted 
unreasonably and said:
It wasnt unusual for an insurer to try and carry out cost containment.
URV had accepted liability for Mrs As claim, and it should be given the opportunity to 
hold meaningful negotiations with the hospital in the USA.
URVs offer of compensation was fair. 
Whilst he expected URV to take steps to resolve the outstanding bills, or take part in 
meaningful negotiations to try and resolve them, if it didnt Ms A may have cause for 
further complaint. 
URV agreed with our investigators opinion. But Mrs A didnt and said its findings gave her 
no closure on the matter. So as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to 
decide. 
I issued a provisional decision which set out that I didnt think URV had yet had enough 
opportunity to handle the negotiation, or ascertainment, of Ms As medical bills more 
appropriately. 
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision. And it read as follows:
The relevant rules and regulatory framework
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses which URV must follow. Those principles include:
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R, which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA and entitled The Responsibilities of Providers 
and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD), includes the Regulators 
guidance on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules mean for providers 
and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the 
impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service 
being provided.
I have also taken into account what was considered good industry practice at the time of 
Ms As claim. That was, for underwriters of travel insurance and their agents to engage
diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical bills, by actively
seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively engaging in
negotiation.
The terms of Ms As policy say URV can:
take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made under the 
policy.
So URV can take over the conduct of a claim against its policyholders. But it has a
responsibility to act in good faith when it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim. 
That means having regard to Ms As interests as well as its own, which forms part of
URVs regulatory responsibilities as set out above.
Ms As claimURV partially settled Ms As hospital bills six months after shed been treated there. It paid 
what it assessed to be reasonable based on the cost rate as determined by the US 
Congress, plus a percentage uplift.
I havent been provided with information about the guidelines URV relied on to assess the 
payment it made, nor evidence to show that it was being charged more than insurers in the 
USA would have been charged for similar treatment. But I do, however, appreciate why URV 
would not want to pay exaggerated costs. 
The amounts that URV assessed to be reasonable and paid the hospital were much less 
than what the hospital charged for Ms A treatment. So I think its reasonable to say that 
URV would have been aware it was unlikely the hospital would have considered its 
payments as settlement of the bills. And, as has been evidenced in this case, the hospital 
did not consider them settled  it instructed debt collectors to chase Ms A for the outstanding 
amounts. 
Normally, in situations like this where an outstanding amount is in dispute, I would expect 
URV to be carrying out cost containment negotiations. I havent seen any evidence of such 
negotiations in this case so far. But Im not persuaded that URV has been given the 
opportunity to enter into such negotiations yet, and will explain why.
When URV wrote to Ms A in June 2019, it assured her that she would not have to pay 
anything towards the costs of the treatment that was being claimed by the hospital. 
However, it set out that Ms A may continue to receive correspondence from the hospital, or 
those acting on its behalf. And it asked her to forward on any such correspondence for URV 
to deal with.
However, Ms A did not, as far as I am aware, engage with that request and forward the debt 
collection letters she received in October and November 2019 on to URV. Instead she chose 
to raise a complaint about what had happened, and told URV that she wanted this service to 
deal with the matter of the outstanding bills given her concerns about what had happened.  
I can understand why Ms A was, and continues to remain, concerned about the outstanding 
debt. And I have thought about whether it would be fair of me to direct URV to pay the 
outstanding bills as a way of bringing this matter to a close for her. But, as yet, Im not 
persuaded that I can fairly conclude URV has been given the opportunity to handle the 
negotiation or ascertainment of the debt more appropriately. 
As I set out above, Ms As policy does allow URV to take over and deal with the 
defence/settlement of any claim. And although I have not seen any evidence to suggest that 
URV has begun negotiations, it may have grounds to obtain a reduction in the amount that 
has been charged for Ms As treatment. 
URV is aware that Ms A is being chased for the outstanding amounts now. So I would 
expect it to begin cost containment negotiations in a fair and reasonable way  it does, after 
all, have a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and to act with due care and 
diligence, paying due regard to Ms As interests and treating her fairly.
I do want to emphasise that URVs duties in relation to its handing of Ms As claim wont end 
with this decision, because the matter of the outstanding bills remains live. And again, I think 
it reasonable to assume that the hospital will likely continue to seek payment of its bills. So it 
will remain URVs responsibility to take active steps to resolve this matter expediently, and in 
the interests of all concerned, I urge URV to take its continuing duties to Ms A very seriously.Separate to its negotiation of the outstanding bills, URV has acknowledged it caused an 
internal delay of about a month in passing Ms As claim over to its cost containment team. It 
has already offered Ms A £100 and an apology to recognise that, which I understand Ms A is 
yet to accept.
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss 
mistake has had on someone. It would appear that Ms A was not aware she was being 
chased for outstanding costs until October 2019  some five months after URVs internal 
delay had occurred. Prior to that she had been reassured that she wouldnt have to pay for 
her hospital treatment, and had been asked to forward on any letters that she may in relation 
to it.
The outstanding bills have clearly caused Ms A concern. But Im not persuaded that I can 
fairly conclude that URVs early delay caused that concern. I think the concern that Ms S is 
now understandably facing is because of the debt collection letters she has been receiving. 
And I dont think that URV have yet had enough opportunity to negotiate the disputed 
amounts that those letters relate to. 
As our investigator has explained, the manner in which URV handles Ms As claim hereafter 
may give her grounds for a further complaint to this service.
In particular, if after the date of my decision URV does not take active steps to ascertain the 
amount of the debts and discharge any outstanding bills in a fair and reasonable manner, 
any unreasonable conduct on its behalf in the future is very likely to result in further worry for 
Ms A, and in a further complaint to this service. (Any such further complaint would have to 
be based upon URVs conduct of the claim after the date of my decision, as opposed to 
during the period that I have considered.) 
The intention behind my decision is to give URV a chance to prosecute its settlement or 
defence of the debts diligently. If there are failings in it doing that, URV may be at 
heightened risk (amongst other things) of receiving a direction to pay the bills in full. If that 
were to happen, that would, of course, be a matter for a different ombudsman to decide in all 
the circumstances.
URV accepted my provisional decision, but Ms A did not. In summary Ms A said she had 
communicated with URV and it should have done more to keep her updated with what was 
happening. She said the situation had been a stressful time for her, and she explained that 
she was unsure whether the outstanding debt would impact any future visits to, or hospital 
treatment in, the US. Ms A also reiterate her concerns about the provisional decision not 
resolving matters and said she had not received the compensation URV had offered her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A says she sent URV copies of her debt collection letters, but URV says it didnt receive 
such correspondence. I appreciate Ms As frustration in relation to this, and it was not my 
intention to cause her any upset as a result of my provisional decision. But even if I were to 
find that URV had received copies of the debt collection letters, Id still not be persuaded that 
it would be fair of me to direct it to settle the disputed medical bills in full at this point.
As detailed above, URV was not in a position to pay its attempted settlement of Ms As 
medical bills until October 2019, and by November 2019 Ms A had asked this service to look 
into what had happened. At the point URV made its attempt to settle the bills it would have been aware that the 
amount it had paid was far less than the amount that had been charged. So I think it should 
have reasonably been aware the US would dispute matters. But URV has exercised its right 
to accept liability for Mrs As claim in line with the terms of her policy, and should be allowed 
the opportunity to hold meaningful negotiations in relation to the outstanding debts. And so, 
for the reasons given above and within my provisional decision, I cant fairly conclude that 
URV has, yet, had enough time to negotiate the outstanding costs in this complaint. 
It is clear that Ms A feels very strongly about whats happened and she is, understandably, 
concerned about the potential impact on future travel to, or medical care within, the US. As 
both parties will be aware, I did consider directing URV to pay Ms As bills in full to bring this 
matter to a close. But because Im not persuaded URV has yet had enough of an opportunity 
to cost contain, in all the circumstances I dont currently think such a direction would be fair.
This finding does not mean URVs duties in relation to Ms As claim now end. As I set out 
previously, the matter of the outstanding bills remains live and I think it reasonable to 
assume the hospital will continue to seek payment of them. 
URV are aware that it will remain responsible for taking active steps to resolve this matter 
pragmatically. And again, in the interests of all concerned, I urge it to take its continuing 
duties to Ms A very seriously. I hope Ms A is able to take some reassurance from this.
For the avoidance of doubt, the way in which URV handles this claim moving forward may 
give Ms A grounds for a further complaint to this service. If, for example, URV doesnt take 
active steps to ascertain the amount of the debts (i.e. to have the amount legally due 
decided or agreed) and discharge any outstanding bills in a fair and reasonable manner after 
this decision, then any unreasonable conduct on its behalf in the future is very likely to result 
in further worry for Ms A. And, potentially, a further complaint to this service. 
Of course, such a complaint would need to be based on URVs conduct of the claim after the 
date of this decision, as opposed to during the period that I have considered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman