DRN-4422553
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined her travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
The following is just a brief summary of the key events. All references to Mrs O include her 
representative. 
Mrs O is a beneficiary of a group Personal Accident, Sickness & Business Travel Policy 
which was sold in in December 2021. The policy provided a leisure travel extension of the 
business travel section of the policy. This provides cover for leisure trips undertaken by 
directors and their spouses/partners and children, as long as the trip doesnt exceed 60 days 
in duration. The policy had previously included an exclusion relating to claims caused 
directly or indirectly by Covid-19, but this exclusion was removed prior to this renewal. 
In December 2021 Mrs O was due to travel to a country which Ill refer to as F, with an 
onward connecting flight to a country which Ill refer to as C. Mrs Os flights and 
accommodation were booked separately. 
The trip got cancelled because Fs government closed their borders to people travelling from 
the UK, which prevented Mrs O from completing her journey to C. The airline in question 
refunded the cost of the flights but the accommodation refused a refund and offered 
vouchers which were declined. Mrs O therefore made a claim on the policy for the cost of the 
accommodation.
Aviva declined the claim. In doing so, it said there was no cover in place for Mrs Os 
circumstances as the policy specifically excluded regulations made by government. Aviva 
concluded that as the closure of the border was a government action, the exclusion applied.   
Unhappy with Avivas stance, Mrs O brought her to complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. In summary, he said the policy 
exclusion was applied fairly by Aviva.   
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigator. Mrs O said when the policy was arranged in 
December 2021, she was told by Aviva that there were no restrictions for Covid-19. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably 
reject a claim.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said, but my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised.
I know Mrs O will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below Im satisfied Aviva 
has acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim.
I understand that the policy was taken out through a broker, therefore Aviva arent 
responsible for the sale of the policy. Any concerns regarding the suitability of the policy 
would need to be raised separately with the broker. 
There have been some queries from Aviva as to which party has suffered a financial loss 
due to the trip being cancelled  the policyholder or Mrs O. As Im not upholding this 
complaint, I wont make any findings on this. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out exclusions specifically relating to cancellation 
claims. The exclusion which Aviva has relied on to decline Mrs O claim from this section 
expressly states Mrs O isnt covered for: 
Regulations made by any Government or public authority.
Ill refer to this as the government regulation exclusion. 
Mrs O has said she had a private travel policy which would have provided cover in these 
circumstances, but it was cancelled because Aviva said all exclusions relating to Covid-19 
had been removed from this policy. Mrs O argues that had she not been told this, she 
wouldnt have cancelled her private travel policy. 
Firstly, Ive not seen any evidence that this situation would have been covered by Mrs Os 
personal policy. But in any event, my role here is to consider the policy in question and 
whether Aviva has acted fairly. And I am satisfied that it has.
Mrs O said she was led to believe all Covid-19 exclusions had been removed. I have seen a 
copy of the summary of key changes to the policy, in which Aviva says that in the business 
travel section of the policy, it has removed the exception for claims relating to Covid-19. So, 
Mrs O was correct in thinking that there are no restrictions within the policy specifically 
focussed on Covid-19. But Im satisfied that the government regulation exclusion above, isnt 
specifically related to Covid-19 and covers a wide range of scenarios. While Covid-19 
exclusions may have been removed from this policy, its not to say that all eventualities 
relating to Covid-19 would be covered. Ive not seen any evidence which indicates Aviva 
provided incorrect information to Mrs O on this point. In my experience this is a common 
exclusion found in lots of travel insurance policies, and I cant see that Aviva told Mrs O it 
was being removed, so I dont think its done anything wrong here.  
Im satisfied that the primary reason Mrs Os trip was cancelled was as a result of Fs 
government restriction on travel. 
I have carefully thought about the exclusion Aviva has applied in this case and I think Aviva 
has acted reasonably by relying on the government regulation exclusion to decline Mrs Os 
claim. I say this because, at the time of Mrs Os flights being cancelled, it was a requirement 
of Fs government that the border was closed for all people travelling from the UK. And 
therefore, as Mrs O was travelling from the UK, the restriction applied in her situation. Im 
satisfied that this amounted to a regulation made by Fs government. Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me that Aviva has acted unfairly by applying this exclusion to Mrs Os 
claim.I appreciate Mrs O may have incurred expenses as well as inconvenience as a result not 
being able to go on her trip through no fault of her own. But travel insurance policies dont 
cover every scenario and I dont think there is any fair and reasonable basis to uphold this 
complaint.
Having considered the terms of the policy Mrs O had the benefit of, I dont think Aviva acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman