DRN-3291944
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr T complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has refused their claim for a
cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr T took out single trip travel insurance policy in August 2019 to cover them and
their children for a European holiday for a week, departing on 21 July 2020. This policy was
insured by Ageas. They declared a number of medical conditions for Mrs B and one of their 
children which Ageas agreed to cover.
Around the departure date of the trip, Mrs B and Mr T decided to cancel the booking. They
said this was due to government restrictions relating to the country they were due to visit and 
also that three of the people insured on the policy had medical conditions which meant they
were vulnerable, and the NHS advice was to stay at home. They managed to recover the
costs of their accommodation, but the airline refused to refund the flights, so Mrs B and Mr T
made a claim under their travel insurance policy.
Ageas refused the claim. It said that the policy listed specific reasons for which it would
cover claims for cancelled trips and the reason for cancelling the trip didnt fall within one of
these covered reasons under the policy. It stated that the policy didnt cover claims for
cancellation as a result of advice not to travel provided by the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth
& Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)).
Ageas also referred to an exclusion on the policy which states it will not provide cover for
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs B and Mr T complained to Ageas and brought their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that Ageas
had acted fairly by declining the claim. He recommended Ageas pay the claim.
Mrs B and Mr T agreed with the investigators view, but Ageas didnt. As no agreement could
be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
On 7 January 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs B and Mr Ts complaint.
The policy Mrs B and Mr T held includes terms and conditions relating to the cancellation
cover provided. The relevant parts are as follows:
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you
cancel before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early
during the period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a 
close relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during 
your trip; or
2.you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as 
an expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to 
attend court); or
3.your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was 
booked; or
4.your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary 
at your home; or
6.you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the 
Armed Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government 
employee being ordered to return to duty.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Ageas said that the cancellation section of the policy doesnt provide cover for claims
relating to FCDO advice in the list of covered reasons. Having looked at the terms above, I
accept that such government advice is not listed as a reason for providing cover for a
cancelled trip.
However, it is important to note that Mrs B and Mr T have also referred to medical conditions
suffered by several members of their family, insured on the policy, and the general NHS
advice for them to remain at home as much as possible at this time. They have said this was
the main reason for cancelling their trip.
Ive looked at the information supplied to Ageas, from the initial enquiry through to the
complaint that was made, and I can see that Mrs B and Mr T consistently mentioned the
medical situation as being a reason for not travelling. So, Im therefore persuaded that this
was one of the main reasons which led to the cancellation. On this basis, I dont think Ageas
was correct in considering the claim as arising from a change in FCDO advice.
Mrs B and Mr T have said when they cancelled, the general NHS advice was not to travel as
three of the family were considered clinically vulnerable. Looking at the policy terms, I can
see that cancellation due to receiving medical advice against travel isnt listed as a covered
reason to claim. So, on strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mrs B and Mr Ts claim simply
isnt covered by the terms of their contract for this reason either.
But I must also consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of
the case, taking into account the industry rules Ive already mentioned and the relevant law.
On the first page of the policy wording, under the title Important health requirements for all
insured persons it states the following;
3. You must not travel against medical advice (or would be travelling against medical
advice had you sought medical advice prior to travel) or with the intention of obtaining
medical treatment or consultation abroad.
Mrs B and Mr T have told us that, had they travelled abroad as intended, they would havebeen travelling against medical advice. If that was the case, the exclusion that Ive outlined
above means its unlikely they would have been covered by the policy terms and conditions
at all. And as stated previously, cancellation of a holiday due to receiving medical advice
against travel also isnt covered by the policy.
There may be some occasions where I wouldnt think that applying a strict interpretation of
these policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome, based on the individual
circumstances of a case. Ive thought about this case very carefully, but I dont think there
are any reasonable grounds upon which I can fairly ask Ageas to pay Mrs B and Mr Ts
claim.
Im aware that Mrs B and Mr T have provided consultant letters and other medical records
showing details of the conditions that affected some of those who were due to travel. 
However, this information doesnt show that Mrs B and Mr T had received specific medical
advice against travel as a result of these conditions at the time of the cancellation. Its for a
policyholder to provide reasonable evidence in support of their claim, and Im not satisfied
that there is currently enough medical evidence to support that the family would have been
travelling against medical advice if they hadnt cancelled their holiday.
If Mrs B and Mr T wish to provide further medical evidence to support their claim, theyd
need to send this to Ageas for it to reassess their claim in the first instance before this
service could comment on the matter.
Ageas accepted the provisional decision. Mrs B and Mr T also responded and said they 
disagreed with the provisional outcome reached. Ive summarised their comments below:
Three people in the party were classified as vulnerable and government guidance 
was that they should be particularly stringent in following social distancing measures. 
Sitting in an airplane and going on holiday would not be meeting this criteria.
They dont think it is fair and reasonable to ask them to contact their GP to ask for 
advice during the pandemic.
It is nonsensical for an insurance policy not to cover someone to cancel their holiday 
but, at the same time, not cover them to take the holiday. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr T have provided an extract from government guidance issued for people with 
certain conditions. This document isnt dated but Mrs B and Mr T have said this was 
applicable at the time of their travel. The guidance is split into two parts and Mrs B and Mr T 
say the relevant advice for those affected travellers in their party was to follow social 
distancing measures. Mrs B and Mr T think that by travelling on a plane and going on holiday 
they would be going against the government advice.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs B and Mr T have said and I appreciate their 
strength of feeling on the matter. And I can understand why they chose not to travel at this 
time. But the document supplied is generic advice - it isnt specific to their particular 
circumstances, nor does it specifically mention that you cannot travel. So, I cant fairly say 
that this document shows they were advised on medical grounds not to take their family 
holiday at this time.
 As detailed in the provisional decision, it is for the policyholder to provide reasonable 
evidence to support their claim and, although I can appreciate their comments about not 
wanting to contact their GP during this time, Im not persuaded that the information and 
evidence provided so far is enough to show they would have been travelling against medical 
advice if they hadnt cancelled their holiday. So, I couldnt say that if they had travelled, they 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy. 
Taking this into account, I still dont think there are currently reasonable grounds upon which 
I can ask Ageas to pay Mrs B and Mr Ts claim. As I said previously, if Mrs B and Mr T wish 
to provide further medical evidence to support their claim then this should be sent to Ageas 
for it to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman