DRN-2475240
The complaint
Mrs K is seeking to recover approximately £141,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), 
which she lost from her account as a result of a third-party scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs K unwittingly authorised the payment 
herself  and it could not reasonably have intervened further or done more to recoup the 
money from the receiving bank. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Mrs K has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked 
into sending just under £179,000 to invest through what she believed to be a genuine 
investment broker. After seeing information about investments on TV, she had searched 
online where she found a company and requested that they contact her. Someone called her 
back, and as they seemed professional, slick and genuine, she was persuaded to invest with 
them. They had told her they were a regulated company. However, unbeknownst to Mrs K, 
she had actually been speaking with a scammer who was operating a scam investment 
broker firm. 
Between 18  28 January 2019 Mrs K made the following payments: 
18 January - £39,804.51
24 January - £50,000
25 January - £50,000
28 January - £39,000.45
She also received payments from the scammer between 24 January  14 March, as follows: 
24 January - £5,000
18 February - £6,000
14 March - £15,000
Mrs K accepts she made the payments herself online but feels HSBC should have done 
more to protect her from the scam. In particular, she felt HSBC should have warned her 
about the possibility of a scam before processing the payments, and that they should have 
been able to prevent the fraud from happening. She said HSBC did block the first two 
transactions and spoke to her to verify that she knew and trusted the company  she 
confirmed she did know and trust the company as she had received funds back from them, 
but felt they could have done more to protect her. Mrs K discovered the scam when she had 
problems cashing in the returns which she had been told her investments had earned. So, 
she reported the scam to HSBC who contacted the receiving bank. They were able to 
recover £37,547.88 from the receiving account, which was returned to Mrs K. 
HSBC didnt agree that they could have done anything more to protect Mrs K. They said that 
during the phone calls Mrs K made to them after they blocked the first two payments, they 
had explained the risks of sending money to an overseas account and warned her about the 
risk of fraud and scams. They felt she had been made conscious of the risks involved with 
making the payments, and proceeded anyway. They said that Mrs K had explained she 
knew the beneficiary well and wished to proceed with the payment. They said they had 
contacted the receiving bank promptly when they were made aware of the scam, and did all 
they could to attempt to assist Mrs K in the recovery of her funds. They dont think they did 
anything wrong, so they declined to refund any of Mrs Ks losses. 
Mrs K remained unhappy, so she complained to our service. Our investigator reviewed what 
happened and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They said that HSBC had 
acted correctly as they had correctly recognised the payments as unusual and out of 
character for the account and so blocked the initial payments. HSBC then spoke to Mrs K 
about the payments and asked her probing questions about the nature and purpose of the 
payments. They warned her of the risk of fraud and scams when sending large payments 
like these abroad. Mrs K reassured them that she had researched the company, and trusted 
them. Having listened to the calls, our investigator felt that HSBC had done everything 
required of them to warn Mrs K, and didnt think that this was a case where, contrary to Mrs 
Ks instructions, they should have refused to put the payments through. 
Mrs K didnt agree. In summary, she said that the relevant laws and regulations means that 
HSBC should reimburse her because: 
She felt the argument that she had authorised the payments didnt negate that HSBC 
had breached their duty of care  but any arguments relating to such a breach had 
been marginalized; 
She was not an experienced investor, and she felt the scammers took advantage of 
that in their tactics by putting her under constant pressure to invest more money. Her 
funds were transferred through means of coercion and under false pretenses; 
The payments were clearly unusual and out of character for her account, so HSBC 
should have done more. They should have asked her more questions and done more 
than have phone calls with her about two of the payments. She suggested they could 
have perhaps closed her account. HSBC should have brought their expertise, 
experience, industry knowledge and technologies to the table  and she does not 
think they did; 
If HSBC were aware of the fraudulent nature of the scammers and their accounts, the 
warning was not enough  the bank was much more able to understand the risks of 
the transactions than she was and should have not allowed the payments to be sent. 
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged. So, as no agreement was reached, Mrs Ks 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that I do believe that Mrs K was the victim of a callous and cruel 
scam. I was so sad to read of what she was put through. I can tell from the evidence we 
have, and the conversations Mrs K has had with our service that this has had a profound 
impact on her. So, Id like to start by offering my sympathies for what she has been put 
through. 
My role here is to assess HSBCs actions against what they should have done  and having 
done so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold HSBC liable for Mrs Ks 
loss. So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mrs K, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
HSBC should reimburse her account with the money that was unfortunately lost to the 
scammers. Ill explain why. There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Mrs K was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs K is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm. 
It is not in dispute that the first payment was unusual and out of character for the account, 
such that it should have alerted HSBC that Mrs K could be at risk of financial harm  it was 
for a large amount and to a new payee. Therefore, this payment did flag as unusual and out 
of character with HSBC, who promptly blocked the payment and wrote to Mrs K to ask her to 
get in touch. They then spoke to Mrs K prior to processing the payment. Similarly, the 
second transaction, having increased in size from the first, still looked unusual and out of 
character on Mrs Ks account and so flagged with HSBC who spoke to her again. On Mrs Ks 
point that the third and fourth payments should have flagged too, I think that if HSBC 
concluded that they had done all they needed to in relation to the first two payments, and 
they and Mrs K were happy for them to be processed, there was no reason to consider the 
third and fourth payments as unusual and out of character for her account  they were for 
the same amount or less than the first two international payments.
As HSBC should have, and did, intervene with regard to the first two payments, I must now 
consider the quality of that intervention. Having reviewed the numerous calls between HSBC 
and Mrs K, it is apparent that Mrs K was asked numerous questions, and offered warnings 
and details about fraud and scams, often repeated across the numerous calls. In summary, 
they asked and discussed the following:
what the payment was for; 
where it was going to;
whether she knew the beneficiary;
how long she had known the beneficiary; 
how she came into contact with them;
how she had received the bank details; 
they discussed the possibility of scams  and that sometimes scammers appeared to 
be offering investment opportunities;they inquired as to whether she had conducted research into the company and 
whether there was any security for the return of the funds; 
they warned her that investment companies outside of the UK may not be covered by 
UK regulations; 
they explained that what looked like legitimate investment firms could be run by a 
scammer in a basement; 
they asked whether the investment related to Cryptocurrency, and explained to her 
that these were not regulated or recognised by the banks. She confirmed that the 
investment related to cryptocurrency, and disputed that it was unregulated and not 
recognised by the banks  but HSBC explained this was the case; 
when Mrs K told them that she had already received returns from the investments, 
they warned her that some scammers would send money to incentivise people to 
further invest by gaining their trust, in order to then as them for higher sums of 
money. Mrs K took note of this, and agreed to make further enquiries before the 
payment was sent, but ultimately called back and asked that the payment be put 
through; 
they also gave general advice on types of fraud and scams that customers were 
falling victim to currently; 
Mrs K answered HSBCs questions, and confirmed that she was as confident as she could 
be that this was a genuine investment. She was unhappy that they were scaremongering 
and seemed dissatisfied that she had to answer so many questions when it was up to her 
where she sent her money  because she was concerned that she would miss out on the 
exchange rate on cryptocurrency and this could reduce her returns. She went so far as to 
complain about their actions in blocking the payments. She also notified them that she 
intended to make a further payment, which I think strengthens HSBCs argument for why 
they didnt intervene on the final two payments. She repeatedly confirmed that she wanted 
the payments to go through. 
I do believe that HSBC asked probing and relevant questions when they spoke to Mrs K on 
the numerous occasions. They gave specific and detailed warnings about the type of scam 
that Mrs K fell for, and gave detailed explanations about how these types of scams worked 
and what to check to prevent falling victim to such scams. For example, Mrs K believed she 
was investing in cryptocurrency and knew her return rate was based on the fluctuating value 
of the type of currency  and HSBC explained the risks of this type of investment to her 
clearly. She told them shed had returns already  and she received a detailed explanation to 
explain why this didnt necessarily mean she was dealing with a genuine business. So, 
having listened to the calls, I dont think they reasonably could be expected to go any further 
in their questioning, or cover off any area in their warnings that was not covered in the 
numerous phone calls Mrs K had with them. Further, I dont think Mrs K said anything that 
should have alerted HSBC that Mrs K was the victim of a scam, such that they should have 
stopped her making the payments altogether, contrary to her wishes. She confirmed that she 
had done the relevant checks, that she had dealt with them before, and repeatedly told 
HSBC that she was confident she was dealing with a legitimate company and wished the 
payments to proceed. I dont think any further questioning or warnings would have likely led 
to a different outcome  I think Mrs K was satisfied that she was dealing with a legitimate 
company, and was going to make the payments. This is further supported by the complaint 
she made when they didnt put her payments through initially. 
I understand Mrs K believes HSBC should have gone further and should have known or 
done sufficient checks to learn that the company were not legitimate, but I am afraid I dont 
agree. I would not expect HSBC to know the validity of every company  particularly where 
the payments are going to what is purported to be a legitimate company outside the UK. And 
the FCA hadnt been notified of the scam company, such that they would have registered a warning online about them, which could have alerted HSBC to the scam. I think they fulfilled 
their obligations here by advising Mrs K on the types of checks to do, and the risks involved 
with sending payments to investment firms abroad. 
Ive also considered HSBCs attempts to recover the funds Mrs K sent to the scammers. 
Overseas accounts are not subject to the same rules and regulations as UK based accounts. 
And from what I know of these types of scams, and the attempted recall of international 
payments, the return of any funds was highly unlikely  funds are often removed long before 
the scam is uncovered, and even if any remain the receiving banks arent obligated to return 
the funds. Nonetheless, I have seen that after the discovery of the scam, HSBC did notify 
the beneficiary bank and sent six chasers to them in an attempt to recover the funds. And 
due to their actions, they were able to recover approximately £40,000 from the beneficiary 
account. 
In May 2019 the scammers persuaded Mrs K to drop her scam claim with HSBC, and told 
her theyd refund her in full if she did. HSBC repeatedly warned her against doing this, and 
explained scammers would say this in order to get their accounts unblocked. They said that 
they would not be able to help her further with the recovery of her funds if she did do what 
the scammers had asked of her. But after numerous phone calls, she made up her mind that 
she would drop the claim. Mrs K contacted HSBC again in July 2019 and said she did want 
to continue to pursue the scam claim. But HSBC were unable to recover any more of her 
funds. Having considered HSBC an Mrs Ks actions following the discovery of the scam, I 
am content that HSBC did all it reasonably could be expected to do to attempt to recover 
Mrs Ks funds  and to dissuade her from dropping the scam claim. 
I appreciate that Mrs K feels let down by HSBC. Afterall, her account with them was used to 
send payments to a callous fraudster. I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear 
about the situation Mrs K found herself in, but I dont think her loss was caused by any 
specific failing on behalf of HSBC and so I cant fairly ask them to refund her. The fault here 
lies with the fraudsters themselves  not with HSBC.
So, having considered all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint  I do not think it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for Mrs Ks losses in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman