DRN-2719254
The complaint
Mrs T complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid 
for a single trip travel insurance policy and about its service.   
What happened
Mrs T bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 14 January 2020, to cover a holiday from 20 March to 
31 March 2020. Cancellation cover started on 14 January 2020. 
The premium Mrs T paid for the standard level of travel insurance cover at policy purchase 
was £404.71. But on 20 January 2020 Mrs T contacted the broker to tell it she was awaiting 
surgery and the policy was amended to include the condition. As the wrong discount had 
been applied at policy purchase a refund of £3.49 was given to Mrs T.
That revised Mrs Ts premium payment to £401.22 for the standard level of travel insurance 
cover, which also covered Mrs Ts declared medical conditions. The premium Mrs T paid for 
the standard level of travel insurance cover included a discount of £12.74
Great Lakes notes say that on 16 March 2020 Mrs T contacted the broker to cancel her 
policy and she was told no premium refund would be possible but she could change the trip 
dates to within 13 months of the purchase of the policy and Great Lakes would need to know 
the new holiday dates before the trip began. Mrs T didnt cancel the policy on that date.
On 17 March 2020 Mrs Ts airline cancelled the holiday due to Covid-19 and her daughter, 
who had paid for the holiday, had the holiday costs refunded.  
On 18 March 2020 Mrs T contacted the broker to cancel her travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said under the policy terms Mrs T couldnt have a cash refund of her premiums 
because she cancelled the policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period. It offered and sent 
Mrs T a voucher for £61.56 to use towards any future policy, which it said represents a pro-
rata refund of the premiums. Great Lakes said the pro-rata refund is calculated from the date 
the policy was cancelled and the voucher is valid for 36 months.
Mrs T complained to Great Lakes and then complained to our service, represented by her 
daughter. Ill refer to Mrs Ts daughters comments as Mrs Ts comments.
Mrs T has raised several matters. In summary she said:
she wants the premium refunded to her in full in cash as she is pensioner and could 
not afford to pay that premium again
she is unhappy with the abrupt and unsympathetic way the agent spoke to her as an 
elderly person, vulnerable because of her age, and wants an apology. The calls 
made her feel very anxious and distressed
she only accepted the voucher because the agent told her it was the voucher or 
nothing and she doesnt remember being told about another option. Great Lakes 
June 2020 final response letter gave another option to move the policy dates 
provided the destination and duration of the trip was the same. She said she wasnt 
clear what that meant but in June 2020 she could not have booked another holiday 
and she may not be well enough to travel in the future when Covid-19 restrictions lift
if she had cancelled the holiday for another reason apart from Covid-19 she wouldn't 
have claimed because she thought the policy only provided cover from the date of 
the holiday 
she wants Great Lakes to look at its policy for dealing with older, vulnerable 
consumers and its complaint handling to ensure it fully explains all the options 
available to a consumer
when buying the policy she made numerous calls to the broker to arrange cover for 
her medical conditions under her travel insurance and was given a different quote 
each time she called ranging from £500 to £1,500.
Since Mrs T complained to us Great Lakes has recalculated the value of Mrs Ts voucher 
from £61.56 to £66.87 which Great Lakes says represents a pro-rata refund of the 15 
unused days premium from 17 March 2020 to 31 March 2020.
Before I made a decision I asked Great Lakes to clarify the terms of its offer. Great Lakes 
told us that although the terms and conditions of the voucher stated it wasnt transferable, 
taking into consideration the circumstances, the voucher could be gifted to another party but 
couldnt be sold on. The voucher is valid for 36 months and as the voucher was originally 
processed following the policys cancellation on 28 March 2020 the voucher expires on 
28 March 2023. The voucher be used towards purchasing a single trip and annual policies 
including for travel in the UK. The pro-rata credit calculation took into consideration the 
whole time there was policy cover, there was no split rate between pre-trip and during the 
trip cover. Great Lakes said it couldnt amend trip dates on policies that have expired, so that 
part of the offer was no longer available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs T held have a cooling off period of 14 days 
for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the 
right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).   
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mrs T didnt cancel her travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, 
even if Mrs T had cancelled the policy within 14 days, she wouldnt be entitled to a full refund 
of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of her cancelling the 
upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ts insurance policy with Great Lakes outline her 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mrs Ts cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to her than is 
required by industry rules. But Mrs Ts policy was purchased on 14 January 2020  and 
cancelled on 18 March 2020. This was more than 14 days after she bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover.
This means I dont think Mrs T is entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mrs Ts planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip insurance 
policy  changed due to circumstances outside of her control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Ts contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs Ts contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  cancellation cover under the policy started on 14 January 2020.
Mrs T was not just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also covered 
her for cancellation cover from 14 January 2020. So, the premium Mrs T paid covered the 
risk of her having to cancel her holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured under 
the policy including, for example, her falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mrs T making a successful claim on the policy from 
14 January 2020 until her holiday was cancelled on 17 March 2020. Its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs Ts 
cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered during that time. 
However, after 17 March 2020, the date the holiday was cancelled, due to Covid-19, Great 
Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mrs Ts insurance policy. The holiday had already been 
cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great 
Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other 
insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mrs T was travelling abroad.   
Mrs T told us that she had cancelled the holiday for another reason apart from Covid-19 she 
wouldn't have claimed as she thought the policy only provided cover from the date of the 
holiday. But the policy certificate was clear that cancellation cover started immediately after 
booking the policy. So Great Lakes can reasonably say it was covering the risk of Mrs T 
making a successful claim on the policy from 14 January 2020 and taking that into account 
in its offer. 
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mrs T with a 
pro-rata refund of the premium she paid for her single trip travel insurance policy from 
17 March 2020, the date the holiday was cancelled. 
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mrs Ts 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mrs Ts reasons for doing so, it was her decision to cancel the insurance 
policy. Mrs T entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for 
Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a 
refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a 
future date.    Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mrs T. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher 
being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months from 28 March 2020  and 
is fully transferrable, so it can be used by either Mrs T or by a third party such as family or 
friends. The voucher can be used to buy a future travel insurance policy  either annual or 
single trip. 
I understand why Mrs T may not wish to use a voucher. She said that with her ill health she 
is unlikely to travel in the future. But Great Lakes has confirmed that the voucher can be 
used for holidays in the UK as well as abroad and if Mrs T thinks future travel for her isnt 
feasible that voucher is transferable so she is able to, for example, offer it to family and 
friends if she doesnt want to use it.
I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the 
voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances.
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs T unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mrs Ts unused period of standard travel 
insurance cover. 
The premium Mrs T paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 78 days from 
14 January 2020 to the original policy end date, 31 March 2020. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mrs T equates to the premiums 
equivalent to 15 unused days of cover from 17 March 2020, the date the holiday was 
cancelled, until the planned end date of the trip on 31 March 2020. 
This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from 
the date the holiday was cancelled. 
I understand that the value of the voucher is much less than the full premium Mrs T paid and 
she says its a lot of money to lose in her circumstances. I am sympathetic to Mrs Ts 
situation, but as Ive outlined above there is no requirement under the policy terms or the 
industry rules for Great Lakes to give a Mrs T a cash refund for the all or some of the  
original premium. The offer of a pro-rata credit voucher also goes beyond what Great Lakes 
is required to do.
I think this fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything further. 
Other issues
Mrs T says when she was buying the policy she made numerous calls to the broker to 
arrange cover for her medical conditions and it quoted her wide ranging different prices each 
time. The broker, who is responsible for the sale of the policy, is a separate business from 
Great Lakes. If Mrs T wishes to pursue her concerns about the different quotes she will need 
to make a complaint to the separate business, and ultimately to us if they cant resolve that 
complaint. As a general point, the cost of a policy is based on the specific information a 
consumer provides. So a quote for a policy may change depending on what medical 
condition information is given.
Ive listened to the relevant call where Mrs T said Great Lakes agent was abrupt and 
unsympathetic. Its clear from the call that Mrs T thought the pro-rata credit voucher was 
unfair and understandably she told Great Lakes she was disappointed. But I dont think 
Great Lakes agent was rude or unsympathetic to Mrs T and he clearly explained how the  
pro-rata credit voucher was calculated.
Mrs T doesnt recall Great Lakes giving her the option to move the policy dates. Great Lakes 
notes the option was explained to her in a call she made on the 16 March 2020, two days  
before the policy cancellation call. In the 18 March 2020 call that Ive listened to Mrs T says 
she spoke to Great Lakes a couple of days before. So I think it is more likely than not that  
Mrs T was told about the option to change the policy dates in the earlier call. Great Lakes 
has clarified that the option of changing the policy dates isnt now available as the original 
policy dates expired. I dont think Mrs T was disadvantaged by Great Lakes agent not giving 
that option again in the 18 March call as Mrs T says she couldnt have booked another 
holiday at the time and may not be well enough to travel in the future. 
Great Lakes June 2020 final response letter to Mrs T did say that as an alternative to the 
voucher it was now offering customers the opportunity to move single trip dates to within 
18 months of the original purchase date, compared to 13 months (which it had told Mrs T 
about in March 2020). The letter says this is providing the duration and destination are the 
same (alternatively a premium may be charged) and the original policy dates have not 
already expired. By the date of Great Lakes letter to Mrs T the original policy dates had 
already expired, which was confusing for Mrs T, as that meant the option was already no 
longer available. But I dont think Mrs T was disadvantaged for the reasons Ive given above.
Mrs T wants Great Lakes to review its policy for dealing with older, vulnerable consumers 
and its complaint handling to ensure it fully explains all the options available to a consumer.  
We do not have the statutory power to make a business review or change its policies, we 
make decisions about individual complaints. From the evidence Ive seen Great Lakes dealt 
with Mrs T reasonably and gave her enough information about her available options
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE to the extent Ive outlined 
above as I think the updated settlement offer is fair.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman