DRN-3425593
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are pursuing him for a 
debt which he feels they havent sufficiently proven he owes them.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account that was opened in 2016, defaulted in 2020, 
and was sold to Cabot later that same year.
In 2021, Mr F sent Cabot a series of letters asking them for proof he owed the money.  
Cabot gave Mr F documents such as the notice of default sums and notice of assignment. 
But Mr F said he wanted things like the deed of assignment. He felt that without this, Cabot 
were not entitled to chase him for the debt and so were harassing him. He asks that they 
stop contacting him about the account and remove it from his credit file.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that this was Mr Fs genuine debt, which had been sold to Cabot, and so it was fair for 
Cabot to pursue him for it.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr F would want to make sure he really does owe the money to Cabot 
 he wouldnt want to pay the wrong people.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence here, including the copy of Mr Fs account statement, 
the notice of default sums, the electronic account data, and the notice of assignment  
where the original lender confirmed theyd sold Mr Fs account to Cabot. The references, 
dates, and amounts match up. The account was set up in Mr Fs name at his address, using 
personal data like his date of birth and employment details. Mr Fs email address and mobile 
phone were registered to the account  the same ones he gave us  and Mr F would have 
received a fair bit of correspondence about the card over the years. The card had been open 
for some years with the original creditor and was seemingly run as a normal account before 
it defaulted. Its not clear why Mr F now feels this isnt his debt, as it appears this is an 
account of his that he was aware of for some time. The available evidence all seems to 
support this being Mr Fs debt, and Ive not seen anything which substantiates that the 
account is fraudulent or otherwise not Mr Fs. So I think that this is Mr Fs account, and so 
that its fair for Cabot to contact him about it and to record it on his credit file.
Cabot provided the relevant notice of assignment, which I think was enough to show that 
they now own the account. Its not clear why Mr F would also like the deed of assignment, 
which is a private document between Cabot and the original lender. The deed would contain 
commercially sensitive information, but would not contain anything that Mr F needs to see, 
and Cabot were not required to give that document to him. So I think its reasonable that 
they havent.
Amongst his correspondence, Mr F made some arguments about the enforceability of the 
debt. Whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is something for a court to decide  
I dont have the power to determine that. With that said, I am aware that there are websites 
and forums which make big promises about clearing debts using obscure legal arguments. 
Just in case Mr F has been relying on those, I would warn that if something seems too good 
to be true, it usually is. Id strongly recommend seeking legal advice from a properly qualified 
and verified person before attempting to use those same kinds of arguments in a court.
Ive looked at Cabots communication, and I dont think theyve corresponded with Mr F 
excessively or unreasonably. For example, they said theyre happy to be flexible and work 
out a tailored plan based on what Mr F can actually afford. They said its okay if he cant pay 
right now, and offered breathing space. And they pointed Mr F towards free, independent 
debt advice charities in case he needed their help. I dont think they sent Mr F an excessive 
amount of correspondence, and I can see theyre now communicating with him in writing 
only. So I dont think Cabot have acted unreasonably, and I think its fair for them to ask Mr F 
to repay the debt he owes them.
I hope I can assure Mr F that its quite normal for debts to be sold on like this, and Cabot still 
have to deal with him fairly when asking for payments. As theyve told him, his payments 
should be based on what he can afford. Mr F may want to get back in touch with Cabot to 
see what assistance they can give him in repaying the account. And Mr F can always get 
back in touch with us as a separate case if he subsequently feels that Cabot arent taking 
account of his circumstances when working out a payment plan.
But as things stand, I cant see that Cabot have done anything substantially wrong in this 
case, and I think its reasonable that theyve asked Mr F to repay the debt he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman