DRN-2294363
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that, because of the actions of Topaz Finance Limited (trading as 
Jasper), she lost the opportunity to arrange a loan to pay off mortgage arrears and allow Law 
of Property Act Receivers (LPARs) to be removed from the management of her buy-to-let 
(BTL) property. Mrs L is also unhappy that Jasper is asking for the loan balance to be 
reduced to the amount of the original advance, and about Jaspers customer service.
What happened
This complaint follows on from a previous complaint, which was the subject of an 
ombudsmans final decision on 1 December 2020. The events giving rise to this current 
complaint are as follows.
In 2007 Mrs L took out an interest-only BTL mortgage which is currently owned and 
administered by Jasper. The original loan amount was £425,000 over a term of 25 years. 
Mrs L had previously had arrears on the mortgage and in 2010 just under £17,000 of arrears 
were capitalised and added to the mortgage balance. At that point the amount owing on the 
interest-only part of the mortgage was approximately £432,000.
In 2019 Mrs L once again fell into arrears. Formal Demand for the full outstanding balance 
was issued on 13 June 2019. 
In late 2019 Mrs L explained to Jasper that shed been in dispute with the local authority over 
changes shed made to the property to allow her to accommodate more tenants. Mrs L said 
mediation was due to take place with the local authority and Jasper asked for evidence of 
this. In the absence of evidence that was satisfactory to Jasper, LPARs were appointed to 
manage the property on 3 January 2020.
(At this stage I will mention that in early 2020 Mrs J made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about the appointment of LPARs. On 1 December 2020 an 
ombudsman issued a final decision in which he did not uphold the complaint and found 
Jasper was entitled to appoint LPARs.)
In order to dis-instruct the LPARs, Jasper said that the current arrears must be repaid in full, 
and the loan balance must be reduced from its current level of about £452,300 to the 
interest-only balance of £432,000. (Although Jasper has said the original interest-only 
balance is £425,000, in correspondence Jasper has clarified that the interest-only balance is 
£432,000.)
Mrs L found a lender (which I will call T) that was willing to provide her with a loan to clear 
her arrears, which Mrs L thought were about £7,000. At that stage, Mrs L didnt know that 
Jasper was also expecting the previously capitalised arrears and the LPAR costs to be paid 
as well.
Between 10 and 13 February 2020 there were multiple calls between Mrs L and Jasper. In 
one call on 10 February 2020, Mrs L said she was waiting for a letter saying how much she 
owed so the new loan could be released to her. In another call later that day, Jasper said it 
had now received the final costs from the LPARs and so could draft the letter confirming how 
much was due. Jasper said this letter would be faxed over as soon as it was ready and the 
notes show that this was done. 
The letter showed the breakdown of the amount Jasper required in order to dis-instruct the 
LPARs  a total of £28,585.42 as at 10 February 2020. Jasper explained that this was the 
amount owed at that date and that it may increase due to future LPAR costs.
Jasper also said in the letter that it required details of Mrs Ls income and expenditure, and a 
copy of the buildings insurance for the property. Jasper explained the circumstances in 
which an arrears administration fee would apply and how this might affect Mrs Ls credit file. 
Jasper also said that if Mrs L had any queries about the LPARs, she would need to contact 
the LPARs.
The following day Mrs L spoke to Jasper again to explain that T wasnt happy with the 
wording of the letter. Jasper advised Mrs L to ask T to contact Jasper or to write explaining 
exactly what their concerns were. However, Mrs L asked Jasper to write to her instead of 
asking her to contact T.
On 11 February 2020 Jasper wrote to Mrs L. The letter said:
As discussed during our most recent call on 11 February 2020, I now write to 
confirm the following:
You advised that you took the letter we issued to you dated 10 February 2020 to [T] 
in order to progress your loan application. You confirmed that the person dealing was 
not happy with the wording of our letter and was not prepared to progress your loan 
application further.
Please ask [T] to write to us directly and outline what their concerns are with the 
letter dated 10 February 2020 so that we can review this further.
Should you have any queries please contact us on [number]
Jasper didnt hear from T in response to that letter. On 5 May 2020, at Mrs Ls request, 
Jasper wrote to Mrs L again. The letter was identical to that sent on 11 February 2020, 
except that it referenced Mrs Ls call on 5 May 2020. T did not contact Jasper following the 
letter of 5 May 2020 either, and, as far as I am aware, as at the date of this decision the loan 
with T has not gone ahead.
On 14 February 2020 Mrs L raised a complaint with Jasper. She was unhappy that Jasper 
was asking for the mortgage balance to be reduced back to £432,000. Mrs L also 
complained about the way Jaspers staff had spoken to her and that calls had been 
terminated or not returned.
In its final response letter dated 23 March 2020, Jasper didnt uphold the complaint. It 
explained that, although payments had been maintained towards the mortgage after the 
arrears had been capitalised in 2010, the account had fallen into arrears again from 
December 2018. Jasper explained that Formal Demand had been issued for the full balance 
of the account in June 2019 and that this overrode any previous agreement to repay the 
arrears.
Mrs L brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator 
looked at it. During the course of the investigation, Mrs L raised another complaint  that 
Jaspers actions had meant that her loan with T had not gone through.The investigator didnt uphold any part of the complaint. She was satisfied that Jasper was 
entitled to request that the loan balance be brought down to its original amount. The 
investigator was also not persuaded Jaspers staff had been rude to her, or failed to return 
calls. Finally, the investigator noted that Jasper had explained to Mrs L that if T wasnt happy 
with the wording of its letter, then T should contact Jasper about this, but no contact was 
ever made by T.
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings and has asked for an ombudsman to issue a 
final decision. Mrs L has reiterated her points about Jaspers actions and the effect these 
have had on her. She maintains that Jasper isnt treating her fairly in the amount it wants her 
to pay, and Mrs L holds Jasper responsible for the loan from T not going ahead.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
I intend no discourtesy by this. I am conscious that another ombudsman has already 
considered a complaint by Mrs L about the appointment of the LPARs, and so I will not 
comment on anything that has been the subject of a previous final decision. In this decision I 
will focus on the main issues about which Mrs L is unhappy, which are as follows:
Jaspers demand for the account balance to be returned to £432,000;
whether Jaspers actions resulted in Mrs L not being able to arrange the loan with T;
Mrs Ls dissatisfaction with Jaspers customer service.
The payment demand: In 2010 almost £17,000 was consolidated into the mortgage. The 
original advance is interest-only, but the consolidated arrears have to be repaid on a capital 
and interest repayment basis, in order that they are cleared in full by the end date of the 
mortgage. Where further arrears accrue, the prospect of any additional balance over and 
above the original advance being paid off by the end date of the mortgage becomes less 
likely.
I note that from December 2018 mortgage payments were missed, resulting in further 
arrears (about £8,700 by the date of the complaint in March 2020).  Im satisfied that the 
formal demand issued in June 2019 for repayment of the full account balance brought to an 
end any payment concessions put in place. 
This is a commercial mortgage and so Jasper is entitled to determine the level of risk to 
which it is prepared to be exposed, particularly where the account has fallen into arrears. 
Jasper is allowed as part of its commercial operations to assess the risk of the arrears being 
unpaid by the end of the term and decide how best to manage this. In the circumstances, as part of its legitimate commercial judgement, Im satisfied that Jasper was entitled to request 
that the account balance was reduced to £432,000 before it would dis-instruct the LPARs.
Im also satisfied that Jasper was entitled to request payment of the LPARs costs before it 
would consider dis-instructing them. This was a reasonable request, in order to ensure no 
further debt was owed other than the interest-only portion of the loan.
Jasper did not say that it would dis-instruct the LPARs following Mrs Ls mediation with the 
local authority. 
The loan with T: I can see from the contact notes and correspondence that Mrs L explained 
to Jasper that T wasnt happy with the letter of 10 February 2020. Im satisfied that Jasper 
wrote twice to Mrs L  at her request  explaining that if T wasnt happy with Jaspers letter, 
then T would need to contact Jasper.
But T has never been in contact with Jasper. Thats something Mrs L will need to take up 
with T, as Jasper has no control over whether or not T gets in contact. Im satisfied Jasper 
did all it could to help Mrs L by providing her with the letters she requested. As I understand 
it, Jasper is still unaware of why T didnt like Jaspers letter of 10 February 2020, so there is 
nothing more Jasper can do to rectify the situation.
Customer service: Ive reviewed the contact notes carefully and Im not persuaded that 
Jasper has provided poor customer service. I appreciate that the answers Jasper was giving 
Mrs L were not the ones she wanted to hear, and the notes show that Mrs L would call 
repeatedly to see if another staff member might give her a different answer. Where a call 
becomes unproductive, either because the outcome is no different from previous calls or 
where Mrs L was not prepared to accept what she was being told, I do not criticise Jasper for 
ending the calls. 
Mrs L also says Jasper failed to return calls, but the contact notes do not show any pattern 
of promised calls not being made. 
I have no doubt the events of 2019 and 2020 were very stressful for Mrs L. I fully understand 
that she was trying to resolve matters, not just with Jasper, but with the local authority and T. 
But overall Im satisfied that Jaspers customer service was satisfactory and that the staff 
Mrs L spoke to did their best to help her.
Conclusion
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs L was hoping for, and I am sorry if this decision adds to her 
distress. But after reviewing all the evidence, Im unable to find that Jasper has treated Mrs L 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman