DRN-2169986
The complaint
Mr T complains that Prestige Asset Finance Limited sold items it held under a pawn broking 
agreement without telling him in advance. He wants a refund of the difference in the cost of 
the loan and the proceeds of sale.
 
What happened
Mr T tells us that in late November 2017 he pawned several items of jewellery. He says that 
around the time the pledge was due to be redeemed he notified Prestige that he was in ill 
health. As a result of this he says the date for the pledge to be redeemed was put back. And 
that there were various contacts between himself and Prestige relating to his health 
condition. Mr T feels he wasnt given sufficient opportunity to make arrangements to redeem 
the pledge. And he says that he wasnt told the items would be sold. Or separately advised 
when each item had been sold or the price which had been obtained.
Prestige told us that in November 2017 Mr T entered a fixed sum loan (pawn) agreement.in 
the sum of £8,685. The sum was secured against several items of jewellery and was due to 
be repaid, with interest, by 8 June 2018. It explained that Mr T had advised it that he was 
experiencing health difficulties. And that as a result of this it had put back the date the 
pledge needed to be redeemed. It said it had requested further information from Mr T about 
his condition. And that it had sent the required statutory notice of intention to sell the pawned 
items. It said that when the pledge hadnt been redeemed and no further information 
regarding Mr Ts health condition had been supplied it went ahead with the sale of the 
pawned items. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Prestige had acted within the terms of the agreement. And that Mr T had been told the items 
would be sold. He noted that Mr T wasnt being pursued for the difference between the debt 
and the proceeds of sale.
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im sorry that Mr T has experienced a difficult period in terms of his health and the financial 
difficulties that hes encountered. I can appreciate that he might be concerned if he felt he 
wasnt being kept informed as to the manner in which the pawn agreement was being 
administered. And how this might impact his financial situation.
Mr Ts complaint comprises of various elements, so Ill try to deal with these separately. But 
primarily he feels he wasnt told the items would be sold; or given sufficient opportunity to 
repay the loan; and that he wasnt kept informed about the proceeds of sale.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigators view letter contained a detailed timeline which Ill not repeat in full here as 
the parties have seen it. In summary, it explained that Mr T had notified Prestige of his 
illness. And that Prestige had been agreed to hold the pledge. But that in order to extend 
assistance further it said it would require more information about his finances. As these 
werent provided by the due date, Prestige had gone ahead and arranged for the pawned 
items to be sold. Subsequently, all the items with the exception of a diamond ring were sold 
by October 2019. The ring was later sold, and Mr T was notified of the total proceeds of sale 
in August 2020.
Ive seen a copy of the notice of intended sale letter dated 9 June 2018. This explained the 
options open to Mr T. Which were to redeem the items by repaying the loan and interest. Or, 
to renew the agreement by paying the interest. And the letter made clear that the items 
would be sold if neither of these options were taken up. Its been suggested by Mr T that 
there may have been a part-payment of the loan. But Ive not been supplied with any 
documentary information to confirm this. And the date he suggests his friend helped him by 
making this payment actually precedes the date of the finance agreement.
Mr T contacted Prestige and as a result of this call the date for redeeming the pledge was 
put back one month. There was further correspondence between the parties. The result of 
which was that Prestige explained it would need more information if it was to be able to offer 
further financial assistance. It requested that Mr T supply bank statements and set a date of 
3 August by which time these needed to be supplied.  When these documents werent 
supplied, and the loan remained unpaid, Prestige started the process of selling the pawned 
items. 
Im satisfied that Mr T knew that if he didnt repay the loan or interest that the items would be 
sold. And that the required notices were sent to him. I also find that Prestige acted 
reasonably in putting back the date by which the loan needed to be repaid. And in advising 
Mr T of what information it required in order to provide him with further financial assistance. 
In the absence of this information being supplied I find that it was reasonable for Prestige to 
sell the pawned items.
The terms and conditions of the agreement state that where there are several pawned items 
the date of sale of the final item is to be treated as the overall date of sale in relation to the 
agreement. As Prestige notified Mr T of the proceeds of sale after the final item had been 
sold, I dont think it did anything wrong in not advising him previously of the sale of other 
individual items.
The total realised from the sales wasnt sufficient to repay the loan and accumulated interest. 
So no refund was due.  But Mr T isnt being asked to pay the shortfall. And I find that 
Prestige is acting fairly and in accordance with the terms of the agreement in this respect 
also.
In summary, I dont find that Prestige has done anything wrong here. It offered to assist Mr T 
when he indicated that his health condition meant he was unable to redeem the pledge by the required date. It notified him of the intention to sell the pawned items. And it sent a notice 
of the proceeds of sale once all the items had been sold. When this didnt realise sufficient 
funds to cover the outstanding debt it confirmed to Mr T that it wouldnt be requiring him to 
meet the shortfall. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman