DRN-3331687
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that TSB Bank plc prevented it from 
being able to top-up its Bounce Back Loan.
 
Mrs T, Bs director, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, B was successful in applying for a Bounce Back Loan. A few months later, in 
November, the option to top-up a Bounce Back Loan was introduced. This allowed 
businesses which had originally borrowed less than the maximum amount available to them 
to top up their original loan.
TSB says it emailed all eligible customers about the top-up option on 11 November. But 
Mrs T says B didnt receive an email. And it wasnt until 26 March 2021 that Mrs T called 
TSB about topping up Bs Bounce Back Loan. 
During this call, Mrs T says she was told that shed need to apply via TSBs website. But 
Mrs T also says she wasnt told that shed need an access code, which TSB provided to 
customers, which allowed B to access the application portal. So, when Mrs T realised that 
she was unable to complete Bs application without an access code, she contacted an email 
address listed on TSBs website to ask for help. But she didnt hear anything back.
 
On 1 April, Mrs T called TSB again. She was told the Bounce Back Loan Scheme  including 
the option to top-up an existing loan  had now closed. So, B would no longer be able to 
submit a top-up application.
  
Mrs T complained on behalf of B. She said B had been prevented from accessing support 
that it needed because of TSBs communication errors. In short, she said; the bank hadnt 
emailed B about the option to top-up, it hadnt told her shed need an access code to 
complete Bs top-up application and nor had it responded to her last email requesting help. 
Mrs T also felt the deadline for applications hadnt been clear on TSBs website.
 
TSB issued its final response on 16 April. In it, the bank partially upheld Bs complaint. TSB 
acknowledged that some aspects of its service couldve been better, specifically that Mrs T 
shouldve been given an access code when she called  and that her email had gone 
unanswered. But TSB said it had sent B an email about the top-up option. It said it had 
confirmation that the email had been sent, to Bs correct email address, and that it had been 
opened. TSB also said the that its website contained a link to further information about the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme  including the deadline for applications.  
As resolution to the complaint, TSB paid B £75 in compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience caused. But Mrs T remained unhappy, so she referred Bs complaint to our 
service for an independent review.
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but he didnt think TSB needed to 
take any further action. He said, in summary, that:
While TSB couldnt evidence the specific email that it had sent B about topping up its 
Bounce Back Loan, it was more likely than not that an email was sent. In any case, 
general information was widely available at the time and the bank was under no 
obligation to contact customers about it.
When Mrs T called TSB, the call handler hadnt done anything wrong by only 
answering the questions she asked. And there wasnt an expectation on staff to offer 
up all general information about the Scheme  including the deadline for 
applications. That information was also widely available. 
TSB had caused B some inconvenience by not supplying Mrs T with an access code 
and not responding to her email. But given there was no indication, at any point, that 
a top-up application was progressing  and keeping in mind the general information 
that was available to customers  Mrs T couldve chased things up sooner if she felt 
B was likely to miss out. 
TSB hadnt unfairly declined to accept an application from B to top-up its loan after 
the Scheme had ended, and £75 compensation was enough to recognise the 
inconvenience B had been caused. 
Mrs T didnt accept our investigators view. She said shed asked IT support to check Bs 
mailbox for TSBs email, but it hadnt been found. Further, she set out that  at the time  
she thought guidance to borrowers was to wait for lenders to initiate contact about next steps 
and what options were available.
 
Mrs T also said that TSB shouldve made the Schemes deadline clearer, and that the 
deadline shouldve been explained to her when she called because it was crucial 
information. Mrs T felt TSBs failure to draw attention to the deadline, and its failure to reply 
to her email, had cost B the chance to top-up its loan. So, she asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that TSB couldve provided B with better service here. The bank has 
accepted that it didnt give Mrs T an access code when it should have done, so B could 
begin a top-up application, and its also acknowledged that it didnt respond to Mrs Ts email. 
Mrs T sees TSBs poor service as the reason why B missed out on the opportunity to top up 
its Bounce Back Loan. But I dont see things in quite the same way. While I accept TSBs 
service couldve been better, Im not persuaded it was the only reason B was left unable to 
apply for a top-up to its Bounce Back Loan.
 
TSB says it sent B, and all eligible customers, an email about the top-up option  but the 
bank cant provide a copy. So, in the absence of such evidence, I cant conclusively 
determine that an email was indeed sent. That said, much like our investigator, I dont think 
that whether it was or not makes much difference to the wider circumstances here.
 
I say that because information about the Bounce Back Loan Schemes top-up option was 
widely available at the time, both from TSB itself and other sources. The bank was under no 
obligation to pro-actively contact customers about the top-up option at all. Moreover, TSB has provided me with screenshots which show it did display information about the Schemes 
top-up option on its website. So, on the whole, while I acknowledge Mrs Ts point that she 
thought she needed to wait for lender contact regarding next steps, Im satisfied that there 
was enough accessible information available to her which outlined Bs options under the 
Scheme.
Additionally, thinking about Mrs Ts phone call to the bank, I wouldnt have expected TSBs 
staff to run through all general information about the Scheme as a matter of course. Rather, I 
think it was reasonable of the call handler to have answered the questions they were asked. 
So, with that in mind, I dont think the call handler did something wrong by not specifically 
mentioning the Scheme deadline  or other general information  when Mrs T phoned. 
There were certainly aspects of TSBs service which couldve been better, though. Mrs T 
shouldve been given an access code when she called, so she could begin Bs application 
for a top-up, and her follow-up email went unanswered.
 
TSB has said Mrs Ts email wasnt picked up because the email address listed on its website 
wasnt being monitored. Thats entirely unhelpful, and clearly caused some avoidable 
inconvenience. So, Im satisfied TSB should compensate B for the oversight. 
That said, its clear from Mrs Ts testimony that she urgently wanted the top-up for B. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable to say that if Mrs T was expecting a response to her email, then 
she couldve chased the bank sooner than she did. Particularly given she knew that she 
needed an access code to begin Bs application, and that nothing could progress without 
one.
 
Once Mrs T did decide to chase TSB the Scheme had closed. I dont think the bank acted 
unreasonably in not accepting a late application from B. It wasnt up to the bank to set the 
deadline, and it had no control over when the Scheme ended. Instead, that was down to the 
government-owned British Business Bank. So, TSB werent in a position to accept an 
application after the deadline because it had no means of doing so.
 
I certainly appreciate that this matter would have left Mrs T frustrated and in a difficult 
position. I understand her strength of feeling over the issue and I know this isnt the answer 
Mrs T was hoping for. And I am, of course, sorry to hear about the impact to her business. 
But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the banks actions alone denied B the 
opportunity to apply for a top-up to its Bounce Back Loan.
 
Overall, Im satisfied that the £75 TSB has already paid B is enough to recognise the 
inconvenience caused by the banks administration issues. And it follows that I dont require 
TSB to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman