DRN-2120991
The complaint
Mr L complains about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, and their 
delay in closing his account.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr L e-mailed Cashplus and asked them to close his account. Mr L heard 
nothing back from Cashplus regarding his request, so he e-mailed them again in May. In 
June, Cashplus actioned this request and the account was closed. But Mr L noticed that hed 
been charged a dormancy fee of £3.21 in May and he was unhappy with this. So, he raised 
a complaint.
Mr L complained that Cashplus hadnt closed his account in a fair and reasonable time 
frame. He thought if they had, he wouldnt have been charged a dormancy fee. So, he 
wanted this fee to be refunded. Mr L also wanted to be compensated for the inconvenience 
hed been caused as hed had to chase Cashplus for a response and had now had to go 
through their complaint procedure.
Cashplus didnt agree. They explained there were situations where they needed further 
information from a customer before the account could be closed. And as Mr Ls account was 
in credit, they were unable to close it in February when hed asked. They said they had 
asked Mr L to contact them to discuss this, but hed failed to do so. So, they didnt think they 
were responsible for the delay. Because of this, they didnt offer anything further. Mr L was 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought Cashplus had failed to 
act within the terms and conditions of the account which explained a customer could close 
an account by e-mail. As Mr L had followed this process, she wouldve expected the account 
to be closed sooner. And if it had been, she didnt think the dormancy fee would be charged. 
So, she thought Cashplus should refund Mr L the dormancy fee and pay him £50 to 
recognise the inconvenience hed been caused by the delay. 
Cashplus didnt agree completely. They agreed to refund the fee but didnt think the £50 
compensation was fair as they didnt think Mr L had been inconvenienced. As Cashplus 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive looked at this complaint on his own merits and its own individual 
circumstances. So, Ive not taken into consideration any previous issues Mr L has had with 
Cashplus and any complaints that may have been referred to our service previously.
Its not in dispute that there was a delay in closing Mr Ls account. The dispute in this 
complaint revolves around whether Cashplus were responsible for this delay. And if they 
were, what impact this had on Mr L.
First, I looked at the terms and conditions of the account to understand how an account 
could be closed by Mr L. These terms and conditions explain Mr L had the right to close 
your account at any time. To do this, you can write by letter or e-mail or call customer 
services. Mr L e-mailed the customer service address of Cashplus. So, I think he acted 
within the terms and conditions of his account and his request to close the account was 
valid.
The terms and conditions also explain that Cashplus would wait 10 days for any transactions 
to be processed. And following this, any remaining balance will be returned to the customer 
subject to confirmation of their identity. Finally, they explain As this process may take up to 
30 days, you may prefer to withdraw funds by ATM or making purchases. 
Ive not seen evidence that shows Cashplus attempted to contact Mr L between February, 
when he made his initial request, and May, when he chased Cashplus for a response. So, if 
Cashplus had needed Mr L to provide further information to close the account, I cant see 
they made him aware of this. Also, when Cashplus did close the account in June, I cant see 
that Mr L had provided any further information. So, I think its most likely that Cashplus 
wouldve been able to close the account as soon as Mr Ls request was received. And they 
didnt.
Also, I dont think Cashpluss argument that Mr L needed to withdraw the remaining balance 
is a fair one. The terms and conditions clearly explain any outstanding balance couldve 
been returned to Mr L directly and it was his decision whether he wanted to withdraw this 
balance before the account was closed.
So, I think Cashplus shouldve closed the account sooner and have acted unreasonably by 
not doing so. And if they had, I dont think Mr L wouldve been charged a dormancy fee of 
£3.21. So, I think this fee should be refunded to Mr L.
And I do think Mr L has been inconvenienced by Cashplus failing to close his account. I think 
it wouldve been upsetting for Mr L to see hed been charged an additional fee when hed 
waited nearly three months for the account to be closed. This is irrespective of how the much 
the fee was. And Mr L has had to spent time chasing Cashplus for a response to his closure 
request. For these reasons, I think Cashplus should compensate Mr L £50 to recognise the 
impact Mr L has suffered due to their delays in closing his account.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mr L the dormancy fee of £3.21
Pay Mr L £50 to recognise the inconvenience and upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman