DRN-2865795
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Elderbridge Limited wouldnt let them move their secured loan 
from one property to another. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a mortgage with a first charge mortgage lender not party to this 
complaint, and a second mortgage  a secured loan  with Elderbridge.
Sadly Mr G fell ill, and Mr and Mrs G decided to sell their property and downsize. They 
asked both L and Elderbridge to allow them to port their loans to a new property. Elderbridge 
initially said yes, but when Mr and Mrs G found a new home and formally applied to port, it 
refused to allow the application. 
Mr and Mrs G complain about Elderbridges decision. They say they relied on the initial 
indication that they would be able to port, and this led them to make various decisions. 
These included cashing in part of Mrs Gs pension to give to their daughter, for whom there 
wouldnt be space in the downsized home. This also caused significant stress to both Mr and 
Mrs G, at a time when Mr G was very ill. And since then Mrs Gs income has been impacted 
by Covid-19; had they been able to downsize, their finances would have been able to cope 
better.
Elderbridge says it told Mr and Mrs G that it would consider allowing them to port their loan 
to a new property, but it would need to know various details, including information about the 
new property. Once Mr and Mrs G told it about their plans in more detail, it realised it 
wouldnt be possible to allow them to port. Thats because Mr and Mrs G wanted to sell their 
existing house and downsize to a park home. Elderbridge doesnt lend on park homes, 
because it doesnt consider them to be suitable security. It said that if Mr and Mrs G found 
another property which did meet its lending criteria, it would be willing to assist. And if they 
didnt, it would look to work with them and help them if they remained in their existing 
property and experienced financial difficulty.
Our investigator thought Elderbridge had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs G asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint. They said they needed to downsize to help with their 
finances and to care for Mr G, and they didnt see the difference between a park home and 
any other property. Unless they could move, they were in a very difficult situation with a loan 
they could no longer manage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and Mr Gs health concerns. Im sure 
theyve been going through a very difficult time and their financial position must be very 
worrying for them.
I do understand why they wanted to downsize to make their outgoings more affordable. And 
Mrs G has explained that a park home was all that was affordable to them in the area where 
they live. Unfortunately, Elderbridge doesnt lend on park homes.
A park home isnt a typical property. Its a mobile home or other prefabricated structure 
which isnt permanently fixed to the land it stands on. The buyer owns the structure  but not 
the land. There are particular laws that apply to park homes and park home sites, including 
in some cases limitations on selling the property on. A park home is not residential property 
in the standard legal sense, and cant be subject to a land mortgage charge in the same 
way.
Mortgage lenders dont generally lend mortgages secured on park homes for those reasons. 
There are specialist providers of finance agreements for park home purchases, but the loan 
agreements are not typical mortgages.
In common with most mortgage lenders, then, Elderbridge doesnt lend money secured on a 
park home. Its not good security for the lending, because it doesnt allow the lender to have 
the same protections it has with mainstream fixed property.
When Mr and Mrs G asked it about downsizing, Elderbridge told them it would be able to 
consider porting their mortgage to a new property. When Mr and Mrs G found a new 
property, it asked them for more information about the new property  and it was then it 
learnt it was a park home, and told Mr and Mrs G it wouldnt be able to allow them to port 
after all.
I think that was reasonable. I dont think Elderbridge had guaranteed that it would allow 
Mr and Mrs G to move their loan; it had said it would consider it once they had found a 
property. And so its not responsible for decisions Mr and Mrs G made before they had a 
confirmed agreement to go ahead. Its fair that Elderbridge wouldnt allow them to port their 
mortgage to a park home, since that didnt meet its lending criteria or form good security for 
the loan.
I realise this put Mr and Mrs G in a very difficult position. I hope theyre able to find a more 
suitable property, or come up with another plan that allows them to improve their situation. 
And I remind Elderbridge that Mr G in particular is vulnerable, and it should treat them fairly 
and sympathetically if theyre not able to move. But Im afraid I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman