DRN-3118231
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of the estate of Mrs M, says the advice given to his late wife by Mantle & 
Partners Limited (Mantle) to transfer her Executive Personal Pensions (EPP) into a new 
personal pension plan with Legal & General (L&G) was unsuitable. Hes says this meant she 
lost important features of her pension arrangements and her estate has suffered financial 
detriment as a result.
Mr M has also brought his own complaint. Although it raises similar issues and he and his 
wife received advice about their pensions together, his case will be dealt with separately.
What happened
Mrs M and her husband set-up a company pension scheme 1992 with the help of their 
financial adviser. Both were employees of their business as well as being trustees of the 
pension scheme.
In June 2006, Mrs Ms financial adviser passed away. He and his wife became clients of 
Mantle in September 2006. It conducted a financial review of their circumstances and 
outlook in August 2007. Some months later they sought advice about their pension 
arrangements and in April 2008 Mantle produced a financial planning report.
Mrs M had an EPP with L&G which she started making contributions to in 1994. She also 
had a personal pension plan with Scottish Equitable.
An EPP brought different, and often greater, tax advantages to the consumer and their 
employer in the tax regime prior to April 2006. For example, if the employer made the 
contributions it saved corporation tax on the amount it contributed. And there was the 
potential to obtain TFC in excess of 25% of the pension pot. EPPs now operate under 
broadly the same rules as personal pensions.
At the time of the advice the total transfer value of Mrs Ms pensions was recorded as 
around £64,000. Her planned retirement age was 65. Mantle recommended she should 
transfer her EPP and personal pension into a new plan with L&G. It advised her this would 
meet her objective to rationalise her pension arrangements, reduce fees, give access to a 
wider range of funds and provide the prospect of stronger investment growth.
Mrs M accepted Mantles recommendations and theres documentation showing these were 
given effect shortly afterwards. For example, Ive seen forms signed on behalf of the 
trustees of the L&G EPP in May 2008 surrendering the policy and instructing proceeds be 
paid into the new personal pension.
Very sadly, Mrs M passed away in early 2019. Mr M says that shortly after this on reviewing 
their financial affairs, the disadvantages of having transferred their funds out of their EPPs 
became apparent. He says Mantle failed to make these clear in 2008 when advising him and 
his wife.
For example, Mr M was surprised to find the trust had been closed  which he says was 
never agreed to. He says this meant he was unable to keep his wifes benefits within the 
trust after she passed away. Instead these had to be paid out as a tax-free cash lump-sum. 
After further investigation, Mr M also discovered he and his wife wouldnt have been able to 
invest in commercial property with their L&G pension. He recalls this being one of the 
reasons their EPPs were established in the first place.
Mr M says huis wifes estate has lost out financially by following Mantles advice. He feels 
Mrs M surrendered significant flexibilities and benefits that were part of her EPP.
As his journey with this Service has evolved Mr M has elaborated on the complaint hes 
brought on behalf of the estate of Mrs M. For example, hes raised the loss of potential 
enhanced tax-free cash (TFC) entitlement with their former plans. Hes also said that after its 
advice in 2008, Mantle shouldve recommended he and his wife put in place more up to date 
and appropriate pension arrangements, such as a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
And hes said it neither conducted nor offered a review of their arrangements since 2016.
Mantle says its advice in 2008 was suitable. It says Mrs and Mr M were not worse off as a 
result of that advice. It doesnt think their former EPPs had the facility to invest in 
commercial property. And it says the way in which Mrs Ms benefits became available on 
her passing wouldve been similar under her EPP compared to her personal pension.
Mantle noted that it hadnt been asked to provide Mrs and Mr M with advice about the 
possibility of investing in commercial property, including their own business premise. It 
noted the risk assessment process it had been through with them and said on this basis 
and given their capacity for loss, it wouldnt have recommended such a proposal anyway. 
Mantel says that while vehicles such as SIPPs and small self-administered schemes 
(SSAS) can provide important flexibilities, they also tend to be more costly and have 
increased administrative overheads compared with personal pensions. So, unless Mrs and 
Mr M had been about to make use of such flexibilities, it wouldnt have been sensible to 
establish such a facility in 2008.
The Investigator didnt uphold the complaint brought by the estate of Mrs M. While he 
couldnt find evidence Mantle had properly set out the pros and cons for the closure of her 
EPP in 2008, nor could he find evidence of any financial detriment caused.
Mr M disagreed. He reiterated some of the arguments hed already made. Here are some 
extracts from a later response he made to the Investigator:
I still feel that the dissolving of the [trust] without our knowledge and therefore without our 
agreement and the subsequent loss of the Executive Pensions was not properly explained 
and neither was the effect of the transfer into the new L&G schemes the aim [being] to 
provide greater flexibility and [choice] of investment strategiesWe thought the transfer into 
the new pension arrangements would still have been within the [trust] So, we did not fully 
realisewhat we were giving up. 
the lack of advice and pension reviews that might have modernised what we now know 
as old and outdated plans and arrangements could have been modified and updated to suit 
our current expectations and risk strategyAt the very least I would be expecting some 
compensation for this lack of appropriate information and a general lack of careI would 
suggest that a suitable remedy would be a return to me of those fees that were paid to 
[Mantel] over the years for their incomplete and inadequate advice and guidance.
The complaint brought by the estate of Mrs M has been passed to me for review and final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision will only deal with matters relevant to the complaint Mr M brought to this Service 
on behalf of his late wifes estate in October 2019. This will cover most of the concerns hes 
raised. But I wont be dealing with some of the arguments hes made later in his journey with 
us, for example in relation to his assertion about a lack of service from 2016. Thats because 
he needs give Mantel an opportunity to respond to his concerns before this Service can get 
involved.
The events complained about happened over a decade ago. Memories can and do fade. 
And it can be difficult to exclude the benefit of hindsight. Wheres theres conflicting 
information about the events complained about and gaps in what we know, my role is to 
weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most 
likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed various available documents that are important to my consideration, for 
example the record of the financial review conducted between Mrs M, Mr M and Mantel in 
August 2007. And the suitability report it produced for them dated 21 April 2008.
The suitability report provides an analysis of each of the pensions held by Mrs M and her 
husband in 2008. Theres also a recommendations section. While I agree that the wording 
used by Mantel in some areas couldve been clearer, taken together I think its more likely 
than not Mrs M wouldve understood that the advice she was receiving was to rationalise her 
arrangements by closing her EPP and personal pension and moving her funds into a new 
L&G pension plan.
My conclusion here is strengthened when I think about the terms in which the suitability 
report captured Mrs and Mr Ms objectives for their pension planning: 
You have asked [Mantle] to carry out a review to ascertain if your current [pension] plans 
are suitable for you. Ideally you would like to consolidate your arrangements into one plan 
for ease of administration and planning
However, I agree with the Investigator when he concluded Mantle didnt do enough to 
explain to Mrs and Mr M the full consequences of transferring their EPP benefits to a 
personal pension plan. For example, Ive no reason to doubt Mr M when he says he didnt 
realise this meant the trust in his firms name, necessary for establishing an EPP, had been 
closed. And theres no evidence to suggest they were made aware of wider arguments for 
maintaining or closing such an arrangement.
Mr M, on behalf of the estate of Mrs M, has said there is a loss as a result of the closure of 
his wifes EPP and the trust it was held in. He says they wouldnt have proceeded with 
Mantels recommendations in 2008 had they been aware of the implications. So, like the 
Investigator, Ive examined the main arguments hes made.Because the reasons for taking out an EPP have eroded over time, some consumers 
switched to cheaper and / or simpler alternatives. But wed expect an adviser to consider the 
benefits offered by an existing EPP before recommending someone should switch plans. 
Thats because EPPs sometimes had protected TFC and g uarantees associated with 
annuities, which would be lost on transfer.
So, this was my starting point. Mr M raised the impact of the move from an EPP to a 
personal pension plan on Mrs Ms TFC entitlement. His current financial adviser said:
What Mantles should have done as part of the advice to transfer away from the scheme, 
was try to calculate what level of tax free cash you might have been entitled to if you 
retained that scheme versus the standard 25% under any new schemePutting aside for 
the moment the ability to use the scheme for the purchase of a commercial property, [the 
Ombudsman] should be understanding of the fact that under EPP rules, tax free cash was 
not necessarily restricted to 25% of the fund value. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ms position. And Ive reviewed the suitability report Mantel prepared 
for her. The effect of the transfer from her EPP to a personal pension on her TFC entitlement 
was set out. Mantel concluded there was no impact because she wasnt entitled to more 
than 25% of the then existing value of her EPP.
I think the matter of TFC was set out reasonably clearly in the suitability report. I think its 
more likely than not Mrs M was aware thered be no impact on her TFC entitlement as a 
result of the transfer from her EPP and she accepted the recommendation to proceed in 
knowledge of such.
Ive noted Mr Ms recent observation about advice he received about not purchasing an 
annuity with the death benefits he received from his wifes pension, because it wouldnt 
make financial sense. Nevertheless, regarding the transfer undertaken between Mrs Ms 
EPP and the L&G personal pension, for completeness I thought it important to confirm that 
Ive not seen anything which indicates her EPP benefitted from guarantees associated with 
an annuity.
In bringing this complaint, Mr M told us:
As I recall one of the reasons for setting up the original company pension trust fund was to 
be able to invest in commercial property.
Mr M says that when the opportunity arose in March 2019 to purchase the freehold of the 
shop which houses his business, he found he could no longer go down that route. He had to 
take out a mortgage in order to purchase the freehold of his shop. He says if the EPPs had 
been in place, he couldve utilised the pension funds and therefore saved money.
I accept Mr Ms recollection from 1992 about one of the reasons for establishing the 
company pension scheme being to invest in commercial property. I note that for over a 
quarter of a century there doesnt appear to have been an exploration of that facility with Mrs 
and Mr M.
More specifically, I can't see there was any mention of Mrs Ms desire to invest in 
commercial property during the 2007 fact-find Mantel had with her and Mr M, nor during the 
2008 advice process, which was focussed on their pension arrangements. And I wouldn't 
have expected Mantle to have discussed such a proposition with them based on the 
objectives stated and information available. If property investment was a goal at the time, I 
wouldve expected it to have been included in the report.In any event, it seems had Mrs M remained in her EPP and later sought to have used her 
funds to invest in commercial property, shes likely to have been disappointed. I say this 
because the Investigator found that the provider of her EPP indicated her plan never had the 
facility to invest in commercial property.
So, Mrs and Mr M would more likely than not needed to have converted their EPPs into a 
SIPP or SASS, in order to be able to proceed with any investment/loan arrangement in 
connection with their business premises (subject of course to the relevant regulations, 
entitlements and conditions).
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I cant agree the estate of Mrs M has 
suffered the financial detriment Mr M says is Mantels responsibility, flowing from its advice 
in 2008 to transfer their EPP benefits into a personal pension.
Mr M is unhappy his late wifes benefits had to be paid out to him in cash, rather than 
remaining in a trust as an asset, which he thinks wouldve been the case had their EPPs 
remained in place. He says this has had a financial impact because rather than being added 
to his own EPP, the death benefits have been paid out and have lost their tax-free status. Mr 
M is also concerned about the impact on his own death benefits as a result of the transfer.
ReAssure - on behalf of L&G  confirmed that death benefits from an individuals EPP fund 
must be distributed, for example to the named beneficiary, to be taken as a lump sum or an 
annuity. I note Mr M was informed in the circumstances the death benefits he was to receive 
would normally be available tax-free. And he chose to take a lump sum. He had a choice 
about how to use the money.
Ive not seen any evidence which demonstrates Mr Ms options for taking death benefits 
were diminished as a result of Mantels advice in 2008. It follows that Ive not found any 
financial detriment.
More recently Mr M has raised an argument that Mrs Ms EPP wouldve outperformed the 
L&G personal pension she was transferred to, over the same period. He also feels the 
ongoing costs paid to Mantle were unjustified and the cost of dissolving the trust was 
unnecessary.
As Ive noted, the suitability report which detailed Mantles recommendation to Mrs and Mr M 
listed their objectives as establishing whether their existing plans were suitable and to 
consolidate their pensions into one plan for ease of administration and planning. A risk 
assessment was carried out and they were classified as having a balanced appetite. This 
was said to mean:
You are prepared to accept a risk to get potential returns above inflation over the long-term 
but you want to limit the amount of your money in more risky investments. Balanced 
portfolios invest in a mix of UK and worldwide company shares, typically 50%, and non-
equity investments. Investments in shares through balanced portfolios is a way of benefitting 
from the performance of many different kinds of companies.
Mantel notes that using pension funds to invest in a commercial property carries significant 
risk and this wouldve been especially the case had Mrs and Mr M decided to put their funds 
into their own business. It says such a proposal was beyond their risk appetite and their 
capacity for loss. It says it wouldnt have recommended such a move, but that in any event 
the matter of such investments were never raised in the advice process.
Having reviewed the suitability report, Mantle recommended Mrs and Mr M transfer to a 
lower priced L&G personal pension and invest in an asset mix which reflected their appetite for risk. Aside from the established lack of information it provided concerning any relevant 
wider implications of closing their EPPs, Mantle did outline important pros and cons of 
staying with their original arrangements and switching to a single personal pension, and in 
the context of their stated objectives.
Mrs and Mr M signed to agree they had received Mantels advice along with the relevant 
cost information before proceeding with its recommendations. The suitability report included 
comparative growth projections; and relevant information about the costs associated with 
switching to the new pension.
Im therefore satisfied Mantle provided Mrs and Mr M with all the relevant information for 
them to make an informed decision about the future of their pensions. And that its 
recommendations were broadly suitable.
The passing of Mr Ms wife was clearly a major change in his circumstances. Inevitably, this 
caused him to review his financial situation. I dont know what advice he sought at this time. 
There wouldve been a range of options for how he could best manage his assets and 
estate, including the death benefits from his wifes pension and his own pension provision.
I can see events in 2019, which were obviously unforeseeable in 2008, triggered the need 
for Mr M to reappraise his financial arrangements. But Ive not found a clear and direct line of 
evidence which shows the advice he and his wife received in 2008 was unsuitable or has 
caused the estate of Mrs M financial detriment. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
require Mantel to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding the complaint brought by the estate of Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman