DRN-1163420
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Ms M took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card. 
Both were taken out in-store.
The policy provided protection for Ms M's store card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding monthly account balance and it would pay out until Ms M returned to work or the 
balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Ms M owed on 
the card.
At the time of the sale Ms M was employed, and she initially said she was entitled to 12 
months' sick pay.  She later said it might have been a combination of full-pay and half-pay, 
but her employer's current information indicated that based on her tenure it would've likely 
been four months' full pay followed by four months' half-pay. She said she had no other 
means she could've used to make her repayments, and she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Ms M paid around £177 for PPI in total and the account ended in 2009.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Ms M chose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Ms M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Ms M's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Ms M have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?I can see Ms M has said there was no conversation about PPI being added - she didn't know 
she had it. I've therefore considered this carefully.
Having done so, I think AXA made it clear that Ms M didn't have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
AXA has provided a copy of Ms M's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI. And in Ms M's case she signed this section. If Ms M didn't want to take out PPI she 
could've left this section blank. By having to give her signature on the form and in the way it 
was required, I'm not persuaded she would've done so without knowing what she was 
signing for - notwithstanding the fact that she might not have understood all that she needed 
to know about it.
I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums would've appeared on Ms M's statement for several 
years. So if she didn't recognise what they were, I might've expected her to have queried it 
with AXA at the time.
So, overall I think Ms M chose to take out PPI. 
the information  
AXA says didn't recommend or give advice to Ms M to take out PPI, and I've seen nothing to 
suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Ms M. 
But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could 
make an informed decision.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Ms 
M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale 
took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, I think Ms M chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms M off taking 
out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Ms M PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Ms M has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Ms M what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what she's said about there being no 
conversation about PPI; that she had good sick pay benefits; and she was never off long-
term sick. But these points dont change my decision.I said above that I accept things didn't happen as they should have. But Ms M appears to 
have chosen the cover, so I think she was interested in the nature of the cover provided. And 
while Ms M had some sick pay, the policy would've paid out alongside this, and given the 
benefit level of the policy it had the potential to clear the balance in full. So I still think the 
policy was useful to Ms M, and she would've still taken it out had AXA done anything more.
Lastly - Ms M might not have been off long-term sick before. But the purpose of insurance is 
to protect against the insured risks becoming a reality in the future - just because Mrs J had 
enjoyed good health in the past is not an indicator of the policy's inappropriateness for her.
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman