DRN-1203537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") has unfairly declined to repair 
work carried out by a third-party garage, following a claim on their car insurance.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs B was driving and involved in a collision with another vehicle. She 
had been travelling to visit a close relative as they were very unwell.
Four days after the incident she spoke to UKI, her car insurance provider, to make a claim 
for the damage to her car. During this call she said she was asked whether she wanted to 
use her own garage or one of UKI's. She said given the situation with her relative's ill health, 
she may be far away from her own home for some time. So she chose to use a garage 
(Company A) close to another relative's house.
Company A carried out repairs and the vehicle was collected at the start of December 2018. 
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs B's car stopped working while driving. A roadside assistance 
company (Company B) attended to the vehicle and said the head gasket had failed due to a 
lack of a coolant in the system. And this was likely due to a return pipe being fitted 
incorrectly  which was included within the work carried out by Company A.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Company A which didn't agree to carry out the repairs they 
wanted. And it told them to speak to their insurer. UKI said Mr and Mrs B had chosen to use 
their own garage and not one of its approved repairers. So it said it hadnt guaranteed the 
work carried out. UKI said this was within its policy terms.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy and said UKI should have been treated them as vulnerable 
customers given the situation with their relative. They think UKI should pay them around 
£1,600 for their repair costs, plus costs for upgraded membership with Company B and fuel. 
Mr and Mrs B also asked for compensation for the emotional distress and inconvenience 
they've experienced.
One of our investigators looked into things and didn't uphold the complaint. He said he'd 
listened to phone calls between Mr and Mrs B with UKI and didnt believe it had done 
anything wrong. And the investigator said in light of the health situation with Mrs B's relative, 
in any case he wasn't persuaded she would've chosen a different garage had she known 
Company As work wasnt guaranteed by UKI.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, saying UKI should've found a garage in their area rather than 
allowing her to pick one herself. They also highlighted other insurers who they say include 
this information as part of their standard call scripts. So the complaint has been passed to 
me for an ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
UKI says it won't guarantee works carried out by third party garages  Company A in this 
case. So I've looked at Mr and Mrs B's policy. This says:
"Where we have agreed with you for reasonable and necessary repairs to be carried out at a 
repairer of your choice, you must give us full details of the incident and we must approve the 
detailed repair estimate before the work begins. Unless repairs are carried out by our 
approved repairers they are NOT guaranteed by us even though we may pay for those 
repairs directly." [my emphasis]
I've considered this carefully and I'm satisfied the wording is clear. And given UKI's network 
of garages and repairers are selected by it, I can understand why it wouldn't guarantee the 
work completed by a third party. As a result I'm persuaded UKI's decision to not guarantee 
Company A's work is in line with its policy terms.
Mr and Mrs B haven't disputed they have a copy of the policy. But they've said it wasn't 
available to them at the time they called UKI, so believe its representative should've 
highlighted these specific terms to Mrs B. I appreciate other insurers may do things 
differently, but Im only looking at the merits of this case. And I wouldn't consider these terms 
to be unusual or restrictive. 
Mr and Mrs B clearly feel strongly about this matter. But even if I did agree that UKI had 
failed by not drawing these terms to their attention, I'm not persuaded it is more likely this 
would've changed their mind in choosing Company A.
I say this as Mrs B began the call with UKI by saying she'd approached a few different 
garages and would like to make a claim. UKI's case handler then asked if she's looking to 
use her own garage or if she'd like UKI to instruct one. This seems reasonable to me given 
Mrs B had said she already approached several garages herself. 
Mrs B says the health situation of her relative was very fluid, so she'd like one that was local 
and has one in mind (Company A) that is near another relative's home. Mrs B had its details 
to hand and provided these. UKI's representative said it would need an estimate from 
Company A, and once one of UKIs engineers approved it the claim could progress. This 
suggests to me that it's most likely that Mrs B wanted to use Company A. 
Mrs B has highlighted that she since discovered a number of other garages that were within 
UKI's network and were only several miles away which she could've used instead. And I 
appreciate in hindsight why she may feel this way. I've taken this into account, but it doesn't 
change my mind for the reasons Ive given above.
In this case it appears there's no dispute between parties that the damage and problems 
caused to vehicle was due to the repairs carried out by Company A. So while UKI will not 
pursue Company A on Mr and Mrs B's behalf, I would comment that this doesn't affect their 
rights to seek a remedy elsewhere, such as another alternative dispute service or through 
the courts.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.Jack Baldry
Ombudsman