DRN-2415730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that they instructed Olton Alexander Ltd in a claim to recover 
money for a timeshare theyd bought.  But Olton Alexander didnt progress that claim.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought a timeshare a number of years ago, which they financed with a loan.
In April 2019, they were approached by a company Ill call B.  B offered to help them recover 
what theyd paid, on the basis theyd been mis-sold the timeshare.  Mr and Mrs S accepted 
and paid B an Action Commencement fee of £4,612.  B introduced Mr and Mrs S to Olton 
Alexander who were to pursue the claim on a no win, no fee basis.
Mr and Mrs S tried to contact Olton Alexander many times over the following months to find 
out how the claim was progressing.  They became concerned at the lack of information they 
received and thought little or no work had been done  so they complained to Olton 
Alexander.  But they didnt receive a reply so brought their complaint to us.  Mr and Mrs S 
told us they wanted the action commencement fee refunded.
Our investigator contacted Olton Alexander to get their business file and comments on Mr 
and Mrs Ss complaint.  He didnt receive a business file.  But he was called by a director of 
Olton Alexander, who said that the business was a separate company from B.  And Olton 
Alexander couldnt refund the fee as theyd never received it.
The investigator considered the limited information he had and concluded Olton Alexander 
hadnt acted fairly.  Although he noted Olton Alexander and B had historically had some 
connections, he wasnt persuaded that Olton Alexander had received the fee Mr and Mrs S 
had paid B.  So he didnt think it was fair to say they should repay it.  
But he did conclude think Olton Alexander should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation because, 
although they said theyd done work and the case was ready to proceed, they hadnt 
provided any documentation to support that statement.  In the absence of that evidence, he 
found Mr and Mrs Ss testimony about the amount of work done to be the more persuasive.
Olton Alexander didnt respond to the content of the investigators view but wrote to tell him 
theyd settled Mr and Mrs Ss complaint direct with them.  Mr and Mrs S confirmed Olton 
Alexander had contacted them but didnt accept their offer to resolve the complaint.  So Ive 
been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator identified.  Ill explain why.
Refund of the action commencement fee
Its clear from what Ive read that Mr and Mrs S have found themselves in a difficult situation.  
Im sorry about that.  And I can see why theyre keen to recover the money they paid B.
But Im considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Olton Alexander.  And I cant direct 
Olton Alexander to repay what Mr and Mrs S paid B unless Im satisfied they received the 
money.  Olton Alexander say they didnt - and that Mr and Mrs S would need to recover the 
money from B.
Its accepted that B referred Mr and Mrs S to Olton Alexander.  But that doesnt prove B 
transferred the money Mr and Mrs S paid them.  So, before I made my decision, I asked for 
further enquiries to be made to establish whether there were any more links between the two 
companies, such that it would be fair for me to conclude that money paid to B was received 
by Olton Alexander.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs S, the enquiries havent led me that conclusion.  So, while I 
understand their frustration, it wouldnt be fair for me to decide that Olton Alexander should 
pay them the money they paid to B.
Other issues
Although Im not satisfied it would be fair to require Olton Alexander to repay the action 
commencement fee to Mr and Mrs S, I agree with our investigator that Olton Alexander 
didnt treat them fairly.  And I think they should compensate Mr and Mrs S for that.
When our investigator shared his view, hed not seen Olton Alexanders file.  So he was 
more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss testimony that very little had been done, than by Olton 
Alexanders testimony that the case was ready to proceed.
Since then, Olton Alexander have released their file to Mr and Mrs S, whove shared it with 
us.  Ive seen that it contains a number of documents relating to the timeshare, as well as a 
copy of Bs invoice and Olton Alexanders terms and conditions.  But it doesnt contain any 
records of work Olton Alexander did to further the claim, or contact with Mr and/or Mrs S.  So 
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs S werent updated as they should have been.
Putting things right
Ive explained above why Im not deciding Olton Alexander should repay Mr and Mrs S the 
£4,612 they paid B.  But I am satisfied they suffered some distress and inconvenience as a 
result of Olton Alexander not progressing their claim or keeping them informed.  I think Olton 
Alexander should pay some compensation for that.  I think the right level of compensation is 
£300.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Olton 
Alexander Limited and directing Olton Alexander to pay them £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused Mr and Mrs S.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman