DRN-3513011
The complaint
Miss B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (CapOne) gave her confusing information
about her monthly payments, leading to a Notice of Default.
What happened
Miss B had a credit card from CapOne. In March 2020, the balance was £997.51 and Miss 
B was on a payment plan, paying £10 a month. Miss B was affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic, and her earned income reduced to nothing. In April 2020, CapOne agreed a 
three-month payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme; there were no 
payments required and zero interest and fees. In line with the scheme, there wasnt any 
advice to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). No payments were received after the last 
payment of £10.18 in March 2020.
In October 2020, CapOne agreed a hardship plan for three months  with no payments, 
zero interest and fees, but with notification to the CRAs. In January 2021, CapOne agreed 
a further hardship plan for one month  with no payments required, no interest or fees, but 
with reporting to CRAs. On 25 January 2021, CapOne sent Miss B a Notice of Default 
which required payment of £49.90 by 22 February 2021  or Miss Bs account would be 
defaulted. Miss B paid the amount needed and the default was avoided.
Miss B complained. She said that all along, CapOnes communications were confusing  
she couldnt see why payment of the arrears was needed as shed been told otherwise by 
CapOnes call handlers and in letters from CapOne. She had paid the amount needed to 
avoid the default  but as she was on benefits as her only income, she had gone without 
food and had borrowed money from her mother  which cause a lot of stress and 
embarrassment and her health was also affected.
CapOne said Miss B had missed a number of payments and because of that, a Default 
Notice was sent on 25 January 2021, and this needed a payment of £49.90 by 22 
February 2021 to avoid the default. Theyd reviewed some of the calls between CapOne 
and Miss B and felt that theyd given her the necessary support she needed.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator felt that CapOne acted fairly. Miss B 
had been sent a number of Notice of Sums In Arrears (NOSIA) letters, which showed the 
missed payments and amount of the arrears. And CapOne had agreed to a payment 
holiday in March 2020 and then further payment plans in October 2020, January 2021 and 
again in February 2021. By the time the default notice was sent, Miss B was five months in 
arrears, and so by that time it was reasonable for CapOne to send her a Notice of Default.
Miss B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision which upheld Miss Bs complaint. It said:
The crux of Miss Bs complaint is that she wasnt aware that arrears for the missed 
payments had to be made up in the way that CapOne asked by January 2021  and that 
CapOnes communications about that were confusing. I can see that CapOne have 
followed their processes here  and I dont dispute that. But, strictly following a procedure 
or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of 
their situation. I think thats whats happened here. In summary, where they couldve done 
better is in giving Miss B clearer communications about her account, and whether the 
arrears that she had been building up needed to be paid, and by when and how much. So 
 its the communications where CapOne were at fault.
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
CapOne, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still 
be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 
2020. Payment holidays had to be agreed by lenders. The intention was to provide short 
term support  usually in cases where customers would be returning to work within a short 
period of time. And so  where a customers situation was that they were in longer term 
difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent normally agreed.
Looking at what happened here  CapOne agreed a payment holiday for Miss B in April 
2020 for a period of three months. It was consistent with the FCAs scheme - although 
interest was set at zero. Payments werent required. The terms of the payment holiday 
were set out in CapOnes letter dated 9 April 2020. The letter said ..your account will not 
fall further behind with payments. When the payment holiday was due to end, CapOne 
wrote to Miss B in a letter dated 22 June 2020 to advise her of that. The letter didnt make 
any mention of paying off the arrears of missed payments and simply said your terms 
and conditions will go back to what they were before the payment holiday. Its not clear if 
the missed payments were to be counted as arrears but If CapOne were seeking to say 
that they needed to be paid, I think they shouldve been clearer.
Miss B then contacted CapOne in October 2020  to say that she was still struggling as 
she had no earned income and couldnt afford to pay the payments of £10 a month. Ive 
listened to the call. And because it was clear that Miss B was in long term financial 
difficulty, CapOne couldnt agree a further payment holiday  so agreed to a hardship plan 
for three months. This included no monthly payments, zero interest and fees  but the plan 
was to be notified to the CRAs. I think that was the right solution for Miss B in her situation.
On the call, I heard CapOnes adviser clearly spell out the terms. And he also said that Miss
B was then two payments behind  in arrears. Miss B said that she didnt want the account 
to default  as that would make things difficult for her. CapOnes call handler said that what 
would happen was that the payment arrangement (as the plan was called) would be 
notified to the CRAs, but the account was not in default at the moment  which was 
accurate and the correct information to give to Miss B. He went onto say that by January 
2021  Miss B could be four payments in arrears  and so Miss B may have to pay more 
than £10 per month then.
But  Miss B then said that at the end of the plan, in January 2021  she still wouldnt be 
able to afford any more than £10 a month. And in response, CapOnes advisor said we will 
be in touch in January 2021 to review and we will have that conversation in January 
2021 CapOne wrote to Miss B on 14 October 2020 to confirm the agreement and the 
letter said We'll contact you at the end of the arrangement to look at the options 
available
And so  Miss B was given the clear impression that CapOne would be in touch in January 
2021 to discuss her situation again  towards the end of the payment plan period. And then there couldve been a discussion about her circumstances  and an agreed way forward 
could then have been found.
But unfortunately  that didnt happen. Theres no indication in CapOnes notes of any 
outbound calls. Nor is there a letter evidenced which asks, for example, for Miss B to get in 
touch.
And then  CapOne gave Miss B another payment plan for a month from 16 January 2021 
 and sent her a letter with its details. It looks like CapOne took this decision without 
speaking to Miss B. The plan was on the same terms as in October 2020  no payments 
were required, with zero interest and fees, but with reporting to the CRAs. The letter said 
Your statement will still refer to paying minimum payments. Please continue to pay what 
is affordable to you. In other words  I can see that Miss B wouldve reasonably thought 
that no payments were needed as part of the plan. There wasnt any mention of a 
requirement to make any payments or pay off the arrears.
And then  CapOne sent Miss B a Notice of Default dated 25 January 2021. But I think it 
was reasonable for Miss B to be confused by that  because CapOne hadnt been in 
touch as theyd promised in the conversation on 12 October 2020 and in the letter dated 
14 October 2020. And  Miss B had just been advised that CapOne had agreed a further 
one- month payment plan with no formal payments needed.
I noted that Miss B was sent several Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) letters  which 
recorded the missed payments. But also  these letters said, If you are on a payment plan 
or other arrangement then this notice doesnt change your payment plan or arrangement - 
please just carry on as agreed with us. And on the call on 12 October 2020 the call 
handler said the NOSIAs would be sent every two months but (they) dont affect the 
(payment) arrangement. And so  Miss B was entitled to think they could be ignored.
Miss Bs account was in arrears by five payments by the time of the default notice  and so 
CapOne followed their processes in sending it. For an account that was five months in 
arrears  that was a reasonable decision. But  the combination of mixed and unclear 
communications meant that Miss B wasnt ever clearly advised that she would have to 
repay the arrears, and how much and by when  until the Notice of Default was sent on 25 
January 2021. And by then  Miss B was surprised and upset to receive it and had no 
alternative but to find a way to pay the amount needed to avoid the default - £49.90. Which 
she did  by borrowing money from her mother and going without food. Shes described to 
us how embarrassing that was and how much stress and embarrassment that caused her; 
and how it affected her health. And so, for this  I think its only reasonable that CapOne 
should pay some compensation. And in line with what our service would expect to see - I 
propose this to be £150.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Miss B and CapOne agreed with the provisional decision. Miss B gave her bank 
account details for payment of the compensation of £150.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss B and CapOne agreed with the provisional decision, I wont be departing from 
it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc must:
Pay Miss B £150 for distress and inconvenience. Miss B had asked that this is paid 
into her bank account  we will forward details of it to CapOne.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman