DRN-2667138
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund her for a payment she made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In February 2019, Miss D lost £1,500 to a holiday rental scam. She found out about a year 
later when she tried to contact the propertys real owner.  
Miss D contacted HSBC as soon as she was aware of what had happened to see if it could 
help her. She mentioned that shed read that HSBC had signed up to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is an agreement by certain banks to refund some 
customers in the event that theyre defrauded and when certain conditions are met. She felt 
that this meant HSBC should be paying her the money back. 
HSBC refused to refund Miss D. It said that the CRM wasnt applicable to her case as the 
payment Miss D made was sent before the CRM was implemented in May 2019. Unhappy 
with HSBCs response, Miss D brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator considered Miss Ds complaint  but he didnt recommend that HSBC 
refund the payment. He didnt think there was anything HSBC shouldve done to prevent the 
payment. It had been authorised by Miss D and it wasnt sufficiently unusual or out of 
character that it should have flagged up on HSBCs systems. The investigator was also 
satisfied that HSBC had done what it could to recover the funds from the bank to which they 
were sent  but it being a year later, unfortunately no money remained. 
Miss D didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
I was really sorry to hear about Miss Ds loss. She has unfortunately been the victim of a 
type of fraud that is all too common. But its not necessarily one that banks can always easily 
detect. So, what I need to consider is what more, if anything, HSBC could have done in the 
first place to stop that happening. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (the PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Its agreed by both parties that Miss D authorised the payment, albeit as a result of Miss D 
being tricked by the scammers. As a result, taking into account the PSRs as well as the 
banks terms and conditions, the starting position is that Miss D is liable for the payment.
But I also need to consider the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, I think that 
HSBC should also fairly and reasonably:
-have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
-have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
-in some circumstances, irrespective of how the payment was made, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss D when she authorised the payment from her account. And whether it could, and 
should, have done more before processing it. 
Miss D made the transfer online without the direct involvement of HSBCs staff, so there was 
no one who could have intervened in person. Ive looked at Miss Ds account statements. 
And, unfortunately, I dont think this transaction was sufficiently unusual or out of character 
to the extent that Id have expected HSBCs systems to flag it up as potentially fraudulent.
Miss D had previously made other payments on her account of a similar value  and the 
payment didnt significantly reduce Miss Ds overall balance, given that shed transferred 
money in to make the payment. It also didnt clear her account of all funds, which might have 
put HSBC on notice that something unusual was happening.
I do appreciate that a payment of this size isnt an everyday occurrence for Miss D either. 
And I know that this a lot of money for her to have lost. But there is a fine balancing act that 
banks need to do when deciding what will flag as suspicious. They cant always check 
directly with a customer every payment that may be slightly higher than usual. This could 
end up placing an unsustainable burden on both banks and their customers. And Im afraid 
that in Miss Ds case, this payment just wasnt unusual enough that I think it should have 
flagged up.
Ive also looked into what HSBC did after Miss D reported the scam to it  including whether 
it wouldve been possible for it to recover any of the money. But, unfortunately, by this point 
it had been almost a year since the payment had been made  meaning the odds of any 
money being recovered were slim, particularly as fraudsters normally take the money out the 
same day. HSBC did contact the bank which received the payments to see if any funds 
remained. But sadly no money was left.   
I know that Miss D thinks that HSBC should have refunded the payment under the CRM. But 
the CRM wasnt in place until after the payment was made. And HSBC have done all that I 
would have expected them to do within the rules and regulations in place at the time. So 
thats why, in this case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require that 
HSBC refunds Miss D the money she lost.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. And I wont be requiring that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman