DRN-1352602
 
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made 
on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2017, Mr G phoned his insurer UKI to make a claim on his policy. His wife had been 
driving and was in an accident. During that call, Mr G is unhappy that he wasnt asked about 
CCTV being available or told about the potential importance of it. He says it wasnt until 
some time later that it became clear this would be crucial in determining the liability for the 
accident. And, when he did make enquiries to obtain the CCTV a long time after the 
accident, he was told that the highway's agency only store CCTV for 7 days. 
UKI settled the claim on a 50/50 liability basis. Mr G complained about this to UKI. He says 
UKIs failure at the outset means liability cannot be fully placed on the other driver even 
though this is what should happen. 
UKI agreed it had failed to ask if there was any CCTV available during the first phone call 
with Mr G. So it sent Mr G a cheque for £250 in recognition of this and for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. However, it explained that there were no guarantees the footage 
wouldve shown the accident or proved who was at fault. UKI also asked the solicitor for the 
claim to consider using Mrs Gs friend, who was in the car, as a witness to support their 
position that the other driver was to blame.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. In the correspondence in this matter, as well as 
the concern over costs, Mr G has explained the impact this is having on his wife  he says 
putting 50% of the blame on Mrs G is having a significant psychological effect on her and 
feels this will be an issue for quite some time. And the £250 doesnt cover their losses or 
what theyve been through.
Our investigator looked into this matter. He explained the £250 wasn't designed to 
compensate Mr Gs loses in terms of the 50/50 split and didnt feel it would be fair to require 
it to do this as there wasn't enough evidence to say UKI should record the claim as no fault. 
So he thought, overall, UKI had done enough to put things right.
Mr G didnt agree - he feels strongly that he shouldn't lose money due to being mis-advised. 
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. And I think he set out the position clearly 
about why he didnt feel UKI needed to do anything more to put things right. So theres not 
much I feel I can usefully add to what has already been said.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. UKI has admitted it got things wrong by failing to 
mention CCTV in the first call with Mr G. And I think its right that UKI should put things right. 
The only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things right, including 
the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Mr G says his insurer has settled the matter on a 50/50 basis because they 
didnt have the CCTV footage to show that Mrs G wasnt at fault. And I appreciate what Mr G 
has said about the significant impact this has had on him and Mrs G. 
Having said this, I dont feel that I could safely say that UKI would have been able to settle 
the claim on a no fault basis if theyd mentioned CCTV to Mr G during their first phone call 
with him. I say this because, to uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct the insurer to record the 
claim differently, Id need to be able to say that its more likely the CCTV:
Would have been requested from the Highways agency within 7 days of the accident;
Recorded the place where the accident occurred; and
Shows that Mrs G wasnt at fault.
And I just dont think its possible for me to say that this is more likely to be what wouldve 
happened here if CCTV had been mentioned to Mr G during the first call with the insurer.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned. I can see from 
what has been said by Mr G that his wife has found this very difficult. But I think UKI took this 
matter seriously. It asked the solicitor for the claim to consider the witness in the car with Mrs 
G and paid Mr G compensation of £250 for any distress and inconvenience caused by what 
had happened. Like the investigator, I believe this is a fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of this matter.
I appreciate Mr G  and Mrs G - will be disappointed with this. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman