DRN-3606760
The complaint
Miss P complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for a cash 
withdrawal which she said she didnt make.
What happened
At 8.59 am on 4 February 2022, a £300 cash withdrawal from Miss Ps account was made at 
an ATM machine.  
The same day, Miss P rang Barclays. She said shed seen a withdrawal on her account for 
£300 that morning, but she hadnt made it. She still had her card, and said she hadnt given 
the card or her details to anyone else. Barclays provided a temporary credit while it 
investigated.
On 12 February, Barclays declined Miss Ps fraud claim, and informed Miss P that it would 
re-debit the temporary credit, which it did on 28 February. Miss P complained. 
Barclays didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. Miss P wasnt satisfied and complained to this 
service.
Miss P told our investigator that she still had her card, which she carried with her. She said 
she hadnt given her card to anyone else, or written down her PIN. She asked if the cash 
machine had CCTV. Miss P also provided a letter from her work HR department and a copy 
of her work clocking-in records, which showed that shed clocked in at 9.54am on 4 
February. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. She said that the genuine card and correct 
PIN had been used. She saw that it wasnt likely that any fraudster could have stolen Miss 
Ps card, made one transaction, then returned the card to her. The investigator said the 
evidence indicated it was most likely that Miss P had authorised the transaction herself.
Miss P wasnt satisfied. She said she wanted CCTV checked as she wasnt happy with the 
outcome. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. For a transaction in February 
2022, these are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment 
service provider (here, Barclays) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the 
technical part, and here, Miss Ps genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. 
So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Miss P 
authorised the disputed withdrawal.
The computer records provided by Barclays show that Miss Ps genuine card and correct 
PIN were used. The card has a chip in it, and there has never been a known instance of this 
chip being cloned or copied. And a four digit PIN number has 10,000 possible combinations, 
so its very unlikely that anyone could guess the PIN correctly first time.
Miss P told Barclays that she still had her card. There were also transactions before and 
after the disputed £300 cash withdrawal. Miss P hasnt disputed those.
This means that if a fraudster unknown to Miss P carried out the £300 cash withdrawal, 
theyd have had to steal her card, somehow manage to find out her PIN number, and then 
return the card to her without her knowing. Its most unlikely that any fraudster would have 
had any reason to return the card in this way  or that theyd have been able to.  Its also 
extremely unlikely that any fraudster would steal the card, somehow find out the PIN, and 
then take out £300 but leave around £700 still in the account.  So I dont consider its at all 
likely that a fraudster unknown to Miss P carried out the £300 withdrawal. So Ive gone on to 
consider other options.
Mis P has provided work records to show that she clocked in to work that day at 9.54 am, 
which was 55 minutes after the cash withdrawal was made. I cant tell for certain whether or 
not Miss P could have been at the location for the cash withdrawal and arrived at her 
workplace in that time  it would probably depend on the running of the trains that day. 
But its also possible that Miss P gave someone her card and told them her PIN number, and 
they carried out the cash withdrawal. This would also explain why the person withdrawing 
knew Miss Ps PIN. Miss P has suggested that CCTV would show who carried out the 
withdrawal. CCTV would be unlikely to show this, and in any case its only normally kept for 
a very short time. It wouldnt be available now. And even if it were available, and showed a 
different person at the machine, that couldnt prove whether or not Miss P had passed on her 
card and PIN to that person.
In summary, the evidence indicates that its most unlikely that a fraudster unknown to Miss P 
carried out the £300 cash withdrawal. So I think its most likely either that Miss P did it 
herself, or that she gave her card and PIN number to someone else who carried it out. If it 
was someone else who physically carried this out after Miss P provided the card and PIN, it 
would still count as having been authorised by Miss P. Either way, Miss P is liable under the 
regulations, and I dont require Barclays to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman