DRN-3857538
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited trading as The 
Insurance Emporium (ELICO) have declined to indemnify him in respect of a claim brought 
by a third party who was bitten by his dog. ELICO say the dog is aggressive so the incident 
isnt covered by his policy. Mr C disagrees and wants them to provide an indemnity in 
respect of the claim.
What happened
Mr R has insurance for his dog with ELICO. The policy provides public liability cover in 
respect of claims made against Mr R for death or bodily injury arising from his ownership of 
the dog up to £2,000,000.
In April 2021, while Mr Rs dog was at his parents home, their postman claims that he was 
bitten by the dog. Mr R says that following the incident a Dog Warden visited his home, but 
left satisfied after inspecting the property and meeting his dog.
In July 2021 Mr Rs parents received notification that the postman intended to make a claim 
for damages. Mr R notified ELICO of the claim and sought an indemnity from them. As part 
of their assessment of his claim ELICO requested the dogs clinical records. And having 
reviewed these they declined to provide the requested indemnity. 
ELICO said that the policy didnt provide cover for any pet known to have vicious tendencies 
or behavioural problems. And Mr Rs dogs veterinary records contained entries about his 
aggressive behaviour and a tendency to bite. They said the dog had been described as 
nippy by the vet and Mr R had warned the vet that the dog could be aggressive. And in 
response to this they said Mr R had only said he disagreed that his dog was aggressive. 
So in light of the comments in the dogs clinical history about his vicious tendencies and/or 
behavioural problems, ELICO said they werent required to provide an indemnity to Mr R in 
respect of the claim.     
Mr R wasnt happy that ELICO had refused to provide an indemnity and raised a complaint. 
He said that their decision had been based on entries in his dogs records. Which he didnt 
think was fair, as a vet is not a behavioural expert, and he said many dogs behave badly at 
the vet as it can be an intrusive and sometimes painful interaction. ELICO didnt change their 
stance and said Mr R should regard their letter declining his claim as their final decision on 
the case.
Mr R wasnt happy and complained to our service. Hed obtained a report on his dog from a 
behavioural specialist and he provided a copy to us as part of the evidence he sent us. Our 
investigator sent a copy of the report to ELICO, but they havent commented on it.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that ELICO 
had declined to accept Mr Rs claim as his dogs clinical records described him as being a 
bit nervous and nippy in December 2019. And in April 2021 Mr R is said to have warned the 
vet that his dog could be aggressive, although the note went on to say that hed been 
friendly so far. 
Our investigator accepted that Mr R had produced an experts report saying the dog doesnt 
have any vicious tendencies or behavioural issues. But although he considered the report, 
he was more persuaded by the vets records, which covered a longer period. So he didnt 
think ELICO had acted unreasonably in declining the claim, as the policy clearly doesnt 
cover dogs with vicious tendencies and/or behavioural problems.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy states that it doesnt cover Any pet that is known to have vicious tendencies or 
behavioural problems.  Based on entries in the dogs clinical records ELICO concluded that 
the dog fell within this exclusion and declined to indemnify Mr R in respect of the postmans 
claim.
Looking at the clinical records the issue of the dogs behaviour is first mentioned in October 
2017. Mr R enquired about castration, as there was a new baby at home, and he wanted to 
avoid any issues. He was advised that as the dog had shown nervous behaviour on his last 
visit, castration was contraindicated and could make things worse. He was advised to 
consult a behaviourist.
On 11 December 2019 the dog was seen for a pre castration health check. The records 
state OR can be a bit nervous and nippy but all ok for exam. 
The on 12 April 2021 the records state care as O reports aggressive. And Mr R was given 
diazepam to give the dog before a further appointment to remove his drain and stitches, as 
the vet had been unable to get close today.
When the dog was seen on 22 April 2021 for the stiches and drain removal the records state 
Assured O will be ok with handling on admit, O warned aggressive but been friendly 
nervous with us so far. Slow handling and assertive tone used to accomplish sit and stay 
commands  responded well.
The incident with the postman is said to have occurred on 13 April 2021, so just the day after 
Mr R is said to have warned the vet that his dog could be aggressive. And the dog had been 
seen because he was injured running through barbed wire, so I think its reasonable to 
assume he may have been in pain.
From a review of the dogs clinical records I think it was reasonable for ELICO to conclude 
that he had vicious tendencies or behavioural problems, even if these were only exhibited in 
specific circumstances. And since Mr R warned his vet about the dogs possible behaviour 
its clear that he was aware of it.
Mr Rs dog was seen by an animal behaviourist, at his parents home, where the incident 
with the postman took place, on 30 July 2022. She reports that Mr Rs father met her, and 
she could see the dog watching them from the house. When the door to the house was 
opened the dog ran to her and sniffed her with no aggression or tension. They walked 
around the garden, the dog found a ball and she the Mr Rs father threw it for him. 
When they went into the house, she says the dog settled down and slept as they talked, occasionally getting up and fetching a ball and trying to play. He was a bit persistent with this 
but could be ignored or told to go away. But he was always relaxed and calm, and often 
asleep. 
The behaviourist says the dog was exceptionally calm and quiet for his breed. She says he 
may have regarded the approach of the postman and his raised hand as he tried to hand 
over letters as a threat. She considers the comments about him being aggressive in his 
clinical records, but says that despite the notes about his behaviour, he responded to clear 
commands and firm handling. And vet examinations often cause dogs to be nervous as 
theyre often intimate and intrusive.
She concludes the report by saying vets arent dog behaviourists and their opinions on 
behaviour arent relied on in court. And she regards Mr Rs dog as being exceptionally calm 
for his breed and showing no aggression or threat.
While Ive considered the behaviourists comments, they dont change my opinion on this 
case. She saw the dog on one occasion, at the home of Mr Rs parents, which hes familiar 
with and where he spends a lot of time. Mr Rs father was present throughout her visit and 
its clear the dog was relaxed and comfortable in her presence.
It's not my role to consider what happened on 13 April 2021 during the incident with the 
postman. Im considering whether ELICO acted reasonably in declining to provide Mr R an 
indemnity in respect of the public liability claim brought against him. And I think they did. Mr 
R had warned his vet on several occasions, including on the day before the incident with the 
postman, that his dog could be aggressive. 
While I understand that any animal may find a trip to the vet stressful, the dog had exhibited 
behaviour that Mr R felt he needed to warn the vet about. And I think this outweighs a report 
prepared after one visit with the dog, in circumstances where he clearly felt comfortable.
So I think ELICO acted reasonably in declining to provide an indemnity to Mr R and I wont 
be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about 
The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited trading as The Insurance Emporium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman