DRN-4018844
The complaint
Mr O is a sole trader, trading as E. He complains that without justification, ClearBank Limited 
have been holding on to funds that properly belong to him, and hed like those funds 
returned. 
Mr Os account (the Account) is operated through a platform provided by ClearBanks 
business partner under the brand name Tide. For easy reference, Ill refer to ClearBank 
throughout this decision. But, where relevant, this should be taken as meaning Tide. 
 
What happened
The background to this case is familiar to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly:
Mr O opened the Account with ClearBank in March 2022.  
On 24 January 2023, ClearBank contacted Mr O to say that in light of two high value 
transactions that had been processed recently, they intended to conduct a review 
into the Account. 
As part of the review, ClearBank asked Mr O to provide the bank with information 
about his business and activities on the Account. More specifically, the bank wanted 
to see documentary evidence to support the two transactions which were card 
payments totalling £19,000. Mr O was asked to provide the information within three 
days and that delay might result in the suspension of the Account.
Mr O promptly provided the information and documentation ClearBank had asked for.
On 30 January 2023, after Mr O had been chasing ClearBank for updates, the bank 
contacted Mr O again. This time ClearBank asked for additional information and 
documentation regarding a number of payments that had been made from the 
Account between December 2022 and January 2023. 
But although by return Mr O provided the bank with some of the information it 
required, nonetheless he told the bank, that he didnt have any supporting 
documentation for some of the transactions which were personal in nature and of low 
value. ClearBank told him they would come back to him with an update as soon as 
possible. In the meantime, ClearBank suspended the Account.  
Mr O therefore, complained to ClearBank.  Primarily, he was unhappy that hed been 
unable to access the £19,000 that was paid to him, as well as the length of time the 
bank was taking to conduct its review. 
After completing their review, in March 2023, ClearBank closed the Account. Later, 
they returned to Mr O the credit balance in it. The £19,000 hadnt formed part of that 
balance and so only a nominal amount was returned to Mr O.
ClearBank told Mr O that any payments to him that hadnt been credited to the 
Account, would be refunded to the cards of the payers. They said Mr O might wish to 
discuss this with his clients in order to arrange a different way to receive his funds. 
ClearBank did also acknowledged providing poor service to Mr O. They said they should 
have told him theyd suspended the Account when they did. So, the bank offered Mr O £50 
in compensation. 
Beyond that, however, ClearBank didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They told Mr O, 
that as a financial services provider, they have certain regulatory obligations theyre required 
to observe. To that end, they said they were entitled to review the Account because as in Mr 
Os case on occasions they have to verify information to make sure accounts are safe. And, 
as took place when they were reviewing the Account, establishing the nature and intended 
purpose of certain transactions are part of that process.
Mr Os complaint remained unresolved, however. In particular, because Mr O believed 
ClearBank were holding on to his funds. So, Mr O referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said - in summary:
He wasnt able to conclude ClearBank made an error in the circumstances of this 
case.  More particularly, because ClearBank had been carrying out their regulatory 
obligations, in the course of which it wasnt unreasonable for them not to allow any 
transactions into or from the Account. Furthermore, having regard to clause 10.3 of 
the Accounts terms and conditions, ClearBank were allowed to suspend access to 
the Account.
In respect of Mr Os core complaint, concerning his lack of access to the £19,000, he 
wasnt persuaded the funds were being held by ClearBank. He was satisfied by 
ClearBanks evidence that the money didnt actually reach their account  which 
meant that in turn they couldnt transfer the payment to the Account. 
He observed that using a payment link, Mr Os client sent the £19,000 payment via a 
third-party company, which I refer to as Y. And he was persuaded by ClearBanks 
evidence that on noting the high value nature of the payments, they wanted 
additional information from Mr O before accepting them for processing into the 
Account.  This being the basis for the review.  
Ultimately the review led to ClearBacks decision to close the Account and he didnt 
think ClearBanks actions caused Mr O to lose £19,000. He believed the funds were 
being held by Y and Mr Os client ought to engage with Y to seek their return. In other 
words, the matter would need to be sorted out between Mr Os client and Y. 
Mr O didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. In summary, he said:
He wasnt unhappy about ClearBanks review into the Account, because he had 
nothing to hide as demonstrated by his prompt response to the banks request for information. The payments that were being questioned were from a United Kingdom 
client and were carried out in the normal cause of business.
The Account was suspended without notice after hed supplied information in 
response to the banks follow up request. But that request was for information on 
non-business transactions that took place on the Account. Therefore, the suspension 
was unfair because it had no relevance to the actual review of the circumstances of 
the £19,000 transaction.
The bank had never denied receiving the £19,000. After all it was done on their 
platform and they confirmed it. All the transaction evidence has their name and logo 
plus they have always maintained the money is safe.
Social media reviews about the banks practise confirm this is not an uncommon 
behaviour on its part.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered this case, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator  and for broadly the same reason. Ill explain why. 
ClearBanks right to conduct their review 
ClearBank have explained the basis for conducting the review that they did into the Account. 
Im satisfied they were within their right to do so, not least for the reasons theyve explained. 
I would add also that the bank was entitled to ask for the information it considered 
appropriate for its review and to interrogate any transactions it believed to be necessary as 
part of that process. 
In fairness Mr O has not challenged ClearBanks right to review the Account. And I 
acknowledge, as hes pointed out, that he cooperated with the bank in that regard. 
Nonetheless, it is worth noting that the bank was carrying out its regulatory obligations, and 
in light of the consequences it would face for failing to do so, Im satisfied ClearBank havent 
done anything wrong in relation to the review. 
That being said, I note nonetheless, that ClearBank suspended the Account whilst carrying 
out the review and that Mr O was unhappy about that. I can understand Mr Os reasons for 
being unhappy about certain aspects of the banks behaviour. Especially, the absence of any 
notification of the suspension of the Account. Mr O has told us he only discovered what had 
happened when hed tried unsuccessfully to make a payment for parking his car. 
Ive weighed up the terms and conditions of the Account against Mr Os argument that it was 
unfair in any case to suspend the Account. Clause 10.3 is relevant and says:
10.3  If we need to suspend your access to payment services  We may suspend some or all of the services for your Tide Business Account (and 
notify Tide where applicable) if, for example:  
a.  Tide informs us you have not paid any monies owing to Tide on time;  
b.  we reasonably suspect fraud or unauthorised use;  
c.  we reasonably believe this is necessary to protect your account;  
d.  you've broken any part of these Bank Account Terms in a serious way; 
or e. you're no longer able to access the Tide Portal because Tide has suspended or 
terminated your access in accordance with the Tide Terms.
Unless we're prevented by a legal, regulatory or security reason, Tide will normally 
tell you before or immediately after stopping or suspending payments and, where 
possible, explain why this has happened.
In light therefore of the above clause, I am unable to conclude ClearBank did anything wrong 
when they suspended the Account whilst carrying out their review. In particular, as was the 
position here, their review was triggered by concerns about the £19,000 payment and they 
wanted to look into things further.
That being said there seems no clear reason ClearBank couldnt have told Mr O about their 
proposed action. And I can understand Mr Os frustration to have found out what had 
happened in the way in which he did. In the circumstances the bank did as I would have 
expected which was to acknowledge its error and fairly compensate Mr O for it. I believe it 
did so by offering Mr O £50, albeit I acknowledge Mr O thinks the offer insults him. 
And whilst the bank did take a further step by closing the Account following its review, the 
bank is entitled to exercise its commercial discretion to decide who it wishes to have as its 
customer. It is not my role as ombudsman to interfere with the legitimate exercise of that 
judgement. 
Withholding the £19,000  
 
This is at the heart of Mr Os complaint to which I now turn. 
I take Mr Os point that the £19,000 was transacted on ClearBanks business partners 
platform and that the bank has never disputed this. It is ClearBanks case, however, the 
funds did not reach them. They said they had concerns about the transactions and initiated 
their review in advance of acceptance to make sure theyd be comfortable accepting the 
payments. 
I acknowledge Mr Os point that at no point in the course of the review ClearBank told him 
they hadnt received and werent holding the funds. Although I have no reason to doubt this, 
I also dont have anything to indicate that Mr O was told the bank was in possession of the 
funds.
ClearBank have explained Mr Os clients made the payment through Y, a third-party 
payment processor, and that the funds have remained with them. I have no basis for 
doubting that evidence. It follows therefore that I cannot require the bank to return them.  I appreciate Mr O believes ClearBank has his funds. I thank him for sharing the copy e-mail 
his client sent to ClearBank saying the payments were processed by them and since they 
were not received by Mr O, ClearBank are responsible for refunding them. Important though 
that evidence is of Mr Os clients engagement in trying to recover the funds, it does not 
demonstrate ClearBank are holding them. Moreover, Ive seen no correspondence of a 
similar nature between Mr Os clients and Y as I reasonably would have expected given the 
banks assertion the funds are with them. 
That being said, and regardless of what Mr O has unearthed on social media, the 
fundamental point is that Ive seen no persuasive evidence to lead me to conclude 
ClearBank have held onto funds belonging to Mr O and that I should require the bank to 
return them.  
For completeness I would add that neither have I found that ClearBank have done anything   
wrong that has resulted in Mr Os potential loss of those funds. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman