DRN-3188375
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited havent refunded the premiums 
they paid for their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
On the 20 February 2020 Mr and Mrs P renewed their private medical insurance policy 
with BUPA. Their premium for the year was approximately £13, 600. In February 2020 Mr 
and Mrs P travelled abroad. Ill refer to the country they visited as Country A. They were 
due to return in April 2020. However, in March 2020, the World Health Organisation 
declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and there was widespread disruption to global travel.
Mr and Mrs P say they were stuck abroad as, due to their age and health, they were unable 
to leave Country A. They were able to make arrangements to return to the UK in January 
2021 but changed their minds about returning, due to reports of a new variant of Covid-19 
at that time. They returned to the UK in July 2021.
Mr and Mrs P asked BUPA to refund their private medical insurance premiums as theyd 
not had the benefit of cover. BUPA said, in summary, that wasnt the case and Mr and 
Mrs P had access to a wide range of policy benefits. Since the complaint was referred to 
our service, I understand that Mr and Mrs P have received a refund of one months 
premiums. This was as part of BUPAs wider commitment to their customers to pass back 
any savings they made a result of the impact of Covid-19. Mr and Mrs P also provided 
evidence that theyd had to attend multiple medical appointments in Country A, rather than 
in the UK.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had taken 
into account the unique circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps case. She said that Mr and 
Mrs P had not been able to benefit from the cover and recommended that BUPA refund 
the premiums from April to December 2020 inclusive. This was on the basis that it wasnt 
until March 2020 that the UK government requisitioned private hospitals and Mr and Mrs P 
were due to return to the UK in April 2020. She explained that theyd booked to return to 
the UK in January 2021 but changed their minds due to concerns about further variants of 
Covid-19. So, she thought that was the point at which Mr and Mrs P would have been able 
to reasonably access the BUPA benefits under the policy and it was their choice to remain 
abroad.
BUPA didnt think that this was fair. They said that Mr and Mrs P paid for annual indemnity 
and continuous cover  so any break in payments would impact upon the continuity of 
cover. BUPA explained that consumers pay a premium for annual indemnity and 
continuous medical coverage based on their underwriting date. The continuous cover 
offered by a private medical insurance policy is designed to continue indefinitely for a 
customer and insure against future risks. They also pointed out that the rebate of one 
months premiums, which Mr and Mrs P had already received, reflected the period of time 
which BUPA services were diminished or unavailable to customers. BUPA asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ps complaint but direct BUPA to put things right in a different way. In summary I 
said: 
Mr and Mrs P werent entitled to a refund of premiums based on the policy terms 
and conditions 
If Mr and Mrs P didnt pay premiums for the time they were abroad theyd 
experience a break in cover  they wouldnt be paying BUPA for continuous cover 
or making a payment for BUPA to insure them against future risks. I didnt think this 
would lead to a fair and reasonable outcome as there would be a significant gap in 
cover and the potential for the exclusion of Mr and Mrs Ps pre-existing medical 
conditions 
I didnt think it was fair and reasonable for BUPA to offer Mr and Mrs P free 
continuous cover for a period of several months 
Mr and Mrs P were abroad for several months and werent able to utilise the 
benefits of the policy for a prolonged period. I thought theyd provided credible and 
persuasive evidence about why they were unable to return to the UK for a 
prolonged period of time 
Guidance from the regulator says that insurers should act where products have not 
delivered the intended value for customers. This could include offering alternative 
benefits, reducing premiums or providing partial refunds. BUPA had offered a 
refund of one months premiums to Mr and Mrs P. However, I didnt think this left 
them in a fair and reasonable position in the circumstances of this case
I didnt think the policy had offered Mr and Mrs P any meaningful value as they were 
paying for a product they couldnt use. They werent able to utilise the alternative 
benefits BUPA put in place in response to Covid-19 and needed to access medical 
treatment abroad a number of times whilst they were unable to return to the UK  
Taking into account the unusual and exceptional circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint I thought BUPA should step outside the policy terms and offer Mr and 
Mrs P cover for the treatments which they would have otherwise been covered for 
had they been in the UK
BUPA should assess the treatments and consultations Mr and Mrs P had whilst 
they were abroad once Mr and Mrs P have provided evidence of them and their 
financial loss. They should cover the cost for Mr and Mrs Ps treatment abroad 
between April 2020 and December 2020 (inclusive) in line with the remaining policy 
terms and any relevant limits set out in the policy. As I thought Mr and Mrs P 
remained abroad by choice after January 2021, I didnt think BUPA should cover 
any costs incurred after December 2020. 
BUPA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs P said that they were very 
disappointed with my provisional decision as they felt it was unfair that BUPA are able to 
retain premiums for a service they couldnt provide. They said that obtaining proof of 
payment for their medical expenses is impossible as it was over a year ago and they are 
now back in the UK. They explained they paid some of the expenses in cash and some 
was paid for by their family. Mr and Mrs P said theyd provided a list of treatment and 
BUPA should estimate the cost based on previous claims for similar treatment. So, I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for BUPA to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Ps 
treatment abroad between April and December 2020. 
As Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, I dont think it is fair and reasonable 
that BUPA offers free continuous cover to Mr and Mrs P for a prolonged period of time. And, 
I also dont think that will leave Mr and Mrs P in a fair and reasonable position because there 
would be a significant gap in cover and thats likely to impact on future claims due to their 
pre-existing health conditions. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs P say it will be impossible for them to get evidence of 
the medical treatments they received or proof of payment. However, I think its reasonable 
that they provide evidence of the treatment they received and of their financial loss. Although 
theyve provided a list of the treatments they received, the list isnt very detailed, and I think it 
would be difficult to fairly assess the claim based on that evidence alone. So, I remain 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to provide evidence of their consultations 
and treatments abroad.
Putting things right
BUPA should assess the treatments and consultations Mr and Mrs P had whilst they were 
abroad once Mr and Mrs P have provided evidence of them and their financial loss. They 
should cover the cost for Mr and Mrs Ps treatment abroad between April 2020 and 
December 2020 in line with the remaining policy terms and any relevant limits set out in the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about BUPA Insurance Limited and directing them 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman