DRN-2101432
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim made under her 
car insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2017, Ms Rs car was involved in an accident. A passenger of a third party car 
opened their door onto her car causing damage. The accident was reported to Aviva and 
they accepted the claim. As they were unable to recover their full costs from the other party, 
they decided to settle the claim on a split 50/50 liability basis. 
Ms R complained to Aviva. She felt it was unfair for the claim to be settled on this basis as 
she wasnt at fault for the accident.
Aviva said they had viewed the CCTV footage and they were satisfied she wasnt at fault. 
They sought advice from their solicitors and they intended to issue legal proceedings against 
the passenger in order to recover the remaining costs. However as the identity of the 
passenger couldnt be obtained, it wasnt possible to pursue this course of action. So it was 
decided that the claim should be settled on a split liability basis.
However Aviva accepted the situation was unfair to Ms R so they agreed to record the claim 
as non-fault, waive the excess fee and said her No Claims Discount (NCD) wouldnt be 
affected. They also said internal and external databases would be updated to reflect this, 
including the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
Unhappy with their response and not convinced by Avivas assurances, Ms R referred the 
complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they believed Aviva had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. Ms R 
disagreed, maintained her position and said she was unhappy that her premiums had 
increased since the accident.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Claim liability
At this point, I must highlight that it isnt my role or that of this service to determine liability or 
who is at fault for the accident. Instead, I must consider whether Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably when settling Ms Rs claim. 
The terms of the policy say:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your name or that of the person 
claiming under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings 
for our own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy.
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of 
any claim.
This means Aviva are entitled to take over, defend or settle any claim. This is a common 
term in insurance policies. 
When settling a claim, insurers will record it as a fault (NCD not allowed) or non-fault (NCD 
allowed). However I think its worth explaining that if a claim has been recorded as a fault, it 
doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder was to blame for the accident or the damage 
caused. Instead, it means the insurer has been unable to recover their full costs from the 
other party.
In this case, the third party failed to provide the details for the passenger in their car so Aviva 
was unable to recover their remaining costs or issue legal proceedings against them. They 
couldnt take legal action against the third party for the actions of their passenger. As a 
result, they decided to settle the claim on a split liability and in light of the circumstances I 
believe it was reasonable for them to do so.
As Avivas costs werent fully recovered, they were entitled to record the claim as fault (NCD 
not allowed), reduce the NCD and require the policy excess to be paid by Ms R. However 
they chose not to do so because they were satisfied she wasnt responsible for the accident 
and they didnt think it would be fair to record it against her. Aviva didnt have to do this, as 
explained above, they were entitled to record it as a fault claim. As they chose not to do so I 
cant say they didnt act fairly. Im satisfied they acted in line with the terms and it was 
reasonable for them to settle Ms Rs claim in the way that they did.
I understand Ms R didnt accept Avivas assurances that the claim would be recorded as 
non-fault. But having seen a copy of the entry on the CUE database, Im satisfied theyve 
done so. Meaning when other insurers check the database they will see a claim was made 
but it was recorded as non-fault. 
Increase of premiums
I note Ms R is unhappy because she said since the accident, her insurance premiums have 
increased and she believes this is unfair as she wasnt to blame. 
It isnt my role to determine how much an insurer should charge for the cover it provides, this 
is a commercial decision that our service wouldnt generally interfere with providing it would 
apply to all consumers. When calculating the premium on a yearly basis, insurers assess the 
level of risk and the likelihood of a claim based on a number of factors. For example, the 
type of car, where its kept, the policyholders age and driving history, etc. It isnt solely 
based on past claims but this would be taken into consideration, regardless of who is to 
blame for an accident. The insurance premium may rise even if a third party is held 
completely at fault for a claim. So if there was an increase in Mrs Rs premium, this isnt 
unusual and I cant say Aviva or any other insurer has done anything wrong. Ultimately its 
up to Ms R to decide which insurer she chooses to provide cover for her car. 
SummaryOverall, I believe Aviva has acted fairly and in line with the terms in settling Ms Rs claim. 
Therefore I wont be asking them to do anything further. I understand Ms R will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate the upset and frustration the situation has 
caused however I do hope she accepts my decision and my reasons for doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman