DRN-4443353
The complaint
Mr D complains that Revolut Ltd wont reimburse money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr D fell victim to an impersonation scam. He was contacted by someone claiming to 
represent a bank which he holds an account with (that Ill call C). He was told that his 
account was at risk. After apparently securing his account with C, he was told that an 
account he holds with another firm (that Ill call N) was also at risk. He was transferred to 
someone claiming to represent N.
The caller said that Mr D would need to move money to a new secure account. He initially 
tried to move his money directly from N to C, but was unable to do so because he lacked a 
card reader. As an alternative, he was advised to open an account with Revolut and move 
his money into that account instead. 
Mr D moved £2,000 from his account at N to his new Revolut account. He did this by way of 
a card payment using Apple Pay. He was then instructed to move the same sum from his 
Revolut account to what he believed was a secure account at N. Unfortunately for Mr D, hed 
been speaking to a fraudster and he hadnt sent money to his own account, but one that the 
fraudster presumably controlled. 
Mr D became concerned at being asked not to disclose the situation to friends or family, so 
he contacted his mother (who represents him in this complaint). She thought that hed been 
the victim of a scam and advised him to contact the various firms involved.
Both Revolut and N said that they werent responsible for his loss. Revolut additionally said 
that it had tried to recover his money but had received no response from the firm which 
received it.
Mr D complained. He referenced various codes of practice, including the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), and argued that Revolut 
had not done enough to protect him from financial harm, particularly considering his young 
age.
Mr D referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They didnt think that Revolut could have reasonably suspected that Mr D was 
falling victim to a scam.
Mr Ds representative didnt agree. She thought that Revolut shouldnt have allowed 
someone so young to open a new account and immediately make such a significant 
payment, particularly given the reason for the account opening was making transfers.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr D. Hes been the victim of a cruel scam 
and I can only imagine how upsetting this has been for him. But Im afraid that Im unable to 
hold Revolut responsible for his loss. Ill explain why.
Under the relevant regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr D is responsible 
for payments hes authorised himself. Theres no dispute about that here. Revolut arent 
signatories to the CRM Code, so Im unable to take its provisions into account. Instead, 
taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Revolut should fairly and 
reasonably have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions or other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, Revolut did provide a number of warnings, one of which was based on asking 
Mr D the reason for the payment  which he selected as something else. That warning 
appears to have included some information about this kind of scam, but there was a more 
relevant option moving money to a safe account (though I appreciate Mr D may have 
been instructed to ignore these warnings). So, Ive thought about whether the steps Revolut 
did take were proportionate to the risk the payment presented. 
Im afraid that, even taking into account Mr Ds relatively young age, I think that the warnings 
Revolut did provide were a proportionate response to the risk that the payment presented. I 
dont think it needed to do anything else. Mr D made a single payment of £2,000. Revolut 
knew nothing of how Mr D normally managed his finances and it would not have been able 
to identify any concerning pattern of transactions. While the amount of the payment is clearly 
hugely significant to Mr D, I cant see that it would have stood out  such that the amount 
alone would have caused Revolut so much concern that it ought to have done more than it 
did. And, I cannot put much weight on the reason given by Mr D when he opened the 
account  the subsequent use of his account appears to be entirely consistent with his 
stated intention. 
Overall, I cannot fairly and reasonably say that Revolut should have been sufficiently 
concerned about this payment that it should have done more than it did.
Finally, Ive considered Revoluts attempts to recover Mr Ds money. It doesnt appear to 
have contacted the firm which received Mr Ds money until the day after the scam was 
reported. Id have expected it to act more quickly. However, as the receiving firm didnt 
respond to Revolut, despite several attempts to contact it, I cannot conclude that any delay 
in contacting the receiving firm has caused Mr D loss. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr D and its important to state that he is not to 
blame for what happened. He was the innocent victim of a sophisticated scam  seemingly 
one in which a significant amount of his personal information was known to the fraudsters. 
But I cant take that into account here, I can only consider the role of Revolut. And, I cant 
fairly say that it is responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman