DRN-4244379
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
February 2020. Mr L acquired the car on a lease agreement.
For the period from mid-February 2022 to early February 2023, Mr L had the car insured on 
a comprehensive policy with Admiral. He was the policyholder. The policy also covered his 
wife as a named driver. Any claim for damage (except a glass claim) was subject to an 
excess of £300.00.
Unfortunately, in early December 2022, Mr L reported to Admiral that in about late November 
2022, his wife had damaged the car. Admiral appointed an approved repairer.
By late January 2023, Mr L had complained to Admiral about delay and poor communication.
Mr Ls lease agreement was due to expire in early February 2023. He couldnt send the car  
back in a damaged condition (without incurring  a cost). He was still waiting for a date for the 
repairs. So he contacted the lease company and moved onto a rolling 1-month contract until 
the car was repaired.
As the first MOT test was due, Mr L had to get that done.
By a final response dated 17 March 2023, Admiral said that its repairer had been waiting for 
parts. It said it was sending £100.00 to Mr Ls bank account. Mr L contacted Admiral again.
By a letter dated 22 March 2023, Admiral said it was sending a further £50.00 to Mr Ls bank 
account. Also on 22 March 2023, Mr L brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator only considered points up to 17 March 2023. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought that the total compensation of £150.00 was 
reasonable to recognise the inconvenience. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He had another family car.
He was not planning to get a new car.
The initial delay was the garages backlog in appointments.
When he was given a repair date (of mid- February), he asked about other options 
and was offered nothing.
In about mid-March 2023, Admiral told him he could use a non- approved repairer, 
but it would take time for them to review first. By that time, he had plans with them to 
fix the car.
Admiral provided compensation for the MOT being done.
Hes in the process of handing this car back with no new car lined up. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the vehicle assessment after the accident, I think that the damaged car remained safe 
to drive. But it needed repair including to a door.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules is that  before we can investigate a complaint  the 
consumer must first have made that complaint to the firm and waited for up to eight weeks 
for a final response. 
In Mr Ls case, I can only look into the complaint he made that led to the final response in 
mid-March 2023. I cant deal in this final decision with any complaint about later delay or 
other shortcomings.
I accept that Admiral didnt communicate with Mr L properly, even when it had promised to 
call him back.
When he completed our complaint form in March 2023, Mr L included the following:
I've now paid 2 payments of £355 for the car (£710) that I do not need and now 
incurring this ongoing cost and maintenance of a car 
I can see why Mr L considers it obvious that Admiral shouldve got his car repaired between 
early December 2022 and the deadline of early February 2023.
However, I havent seen enough evidence to say what wouldve been a reasonable time for 
the repair of the damage to the car. And I havent seen enough evidence to say that, when 
he made his complaint, Admiral had already shown that it would exceed a reasonable time 
for the repair.
So, whilst I understand Mr Ls need to extend the lease, I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Admiral to compensate Mr L for the cost of that in February and March 2023. 
I dont under-estimate the impact on Mr L of the shortcomings in Admirals communication. 
That impact included making Mr L feel ignored and that he had to chase for progress and 
updates. 
Nevertheless, I conclude that the payments totalling £150.00 were in line with what I would 
otherwise have directed Admiral to pay. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral 
to pay any more compensation or to waive the excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman