DRN-2246918
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc Bank blocked and then closed his account. He says 
Santander didnt tell him what was happening and that he could access his closing balance. 
He wants Santander to pay him compensation.
Mr M is represented by his father, who I will refer to as Mr M1.
What happened
Mr M had a 123 mini current account and junior savings account with Santander.
In March 2018, Santander decided to review Mr Ms accounts after Mr M1 had attended a 
branch with Mr Ms current account bank card and PIN. During the review Santander 
discovered the balance in the account was far greater than what would be expected, had 
direct debits and large card payments which were out of character for spend on a childs 
account, which suggested that a third party was using Mr Ms account. Whilst it conducted 
the review Santander restricted Mr Ms access to his account. 
On 10 March 2018, Santander wrote to Mr M about the activity on his account and asked 
him to provide some identification. In response Mr M went into a branch where he confirmed 
that his father, Mr M1 was actually the main user of the account. And not him. Later the 
same day, Mr M rang Santander whilst his father was present. During the call Santander 
explained to both Mr M and his father that hed breached the terms of the account in allowing 
his father to use the account as his own. 
Santander competed its review and in May 2018 decided to close Mr Ms current account 
and allow Mr M access to the remaining funds in the account. Santander didnt close Mr Ms 
savings account as it was happy this had been operating properly. Santander attempted to 
call Mr Ms mother, who was a trustee on his savings account, to let her know about the 
account closure, but was unable to speak to her and left a message on her voicemail asking 
her to call back. Mrs M didnt respond to the banks message. And Santander didnt contact 
Mr M again to let him know it had decided to close his current account and he could 
withdraw his balance. 
In October 2018, Mr M contacted Santander to find out what was happening with his 
account. Santander incorrectly told Mr M that there was no update on the review of his 
account and that it would call him back. But this didnt happen.
In July 2019, Mr M1 contacted Santander to complain about the lack of contact and access 
to his sons account. Santander apologised for the lack of communication about the closure 
of his account and not letting Mr M know he couldve accessed the closing balance. The 
bank offered Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Mr M didnt accept the banks offer and brought his complaint to our service. He said £100 
doesnt reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes suffered. He said because he couldnt 
access his account, he had to borrow money from friends which caused him a great deal of 
stress and embarrassment. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms complaint. He said Santander hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had reviewed his account. He wasnt satisfied that Mr M had been directly 
impacted by Santanders mistake as it was Mr M1 who was using the account. So, he 
thought Santanders offer was fair. Mr M disagreed. He said hes lost out financially because 
he would have invested his money elsewhere sooner had Santander let him know he could 
access his closing balance.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Santander has said that Mr Ms access to his accounts was blocked to meet these 
requirements  based on the account activity a third party was using Mr Ms account. So, it 
blocked Mr Ms account whilst it investigated. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Santander was within its rights 
to review Mr Ms account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
Under the terms and conditions Santander were also entitled to close Mr Ms current account 
given the concerns it had about how Mr M was allowing the account to be operated  Mr M 
had misused his account in allowing his father to operate it as his own account, which was in 
breach of the terms.
Banks should however give a customer reasonable notice about its intention to close an 
account. Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account, Santander could close the 
account by giving him 60 days notice. And under certain circumstances Santander can 
close an account immediately. But Santander didnt close Mr Ms account in line with terms. 
The investigator said Santander should have told Mr M his account was being closed in May 
2018 and returned Mr Ms money to him sooner than it did. And I share that assessment. 
Santander accepted that it should have provided Mr M better service when it closed his 
account. It acknowledged that it didnt let him know it had decided to close his account. And 
that he could withdraw his closing balance in May 2018. The bank also accepts that it gave 
Mr M wrong information when he contacted them in October 2018 and incorrectly told him 
his account was still being reviewed. It has apologised and offered Mr M £100 compensation 
for any inconvenience this caused him. 
I know Mr M says that this is not enough to reflect the trouble and upset hes suffered. But I 
dont agree. I can see that Mr M was given wrong information by Santander when he chased 
the bank to find out what was going on. And Santander didnt let him know it was closing his 
account. So, Im satisfied he was caused some trouble and upset. But having looked at all 
the information, its clear that Mr M wasnt actually using his account himself. His father was. 
And the funds in the account belonged to his father and were being used by him. So, Im not 
satisfied that Mr M was impacted to the extent hes described. And Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything more. And I will leave it to Mr M to decide whether he wishes to 
accept that offer.
My final decision
Your text hereUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman