DRN-1936771
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr M holds with Platform Funding Limited. Hes unhappy 
with the volume of phone calls Platform made about his arrears. 
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr M originally held the mortgage jointly with both of his parents, but since they died, its 
been in just his name. Hes been in arrears periodically; he says this is partly due to the time 
he spent nursing his parents before they died and also down to instabilities in his 
employment situation since then. 
Mr M has made overpayments to bring his arrears down, and by early 2020, was close to 
bringing his account fully up to date. But by then, hed complained that Platform made 
multiple calls daily to his mobile phone. 
He says the calls caused him to be sacked by one employer and almost resulted in him 
having a serious traffic accident. On one occasion, he arrived home in a distressed state 
after speaking to Platform to find the police and an ambulance had been sent to his home.
Platform said the calls were necessary to keep in contact with Mr M because there wasnt a 
formal payment arrangement in place and it needed an up-to-date and accurate income and 
expenditure report. 
It said its normal maximum is three calls per day but offered £150 compensation for having 
exceeded that number one day in 2019. It also said that it had called the emergency 
services to Mr Ms home due to comments hed made that suggested he might be vulnerable 
to harm. 
Mr M returned the cheque and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think 
Platform had treated Mr M unfairly. Mr Ms asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr M has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have a different 
remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from 
the fine detail and taking an overview. Having done that, Ive come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same reasons. 
Lenders have to treat consumers in financial difficulties fairly, but they also have a right to 
seek reasonable and sustainable repayment proposals. Striking a balance between the two 
isnt easy, and one persons perception of fairness differs from anothers. 
That duty to treat consumers fairly also means being mindful of their welfare. If Platforms 
judged there to be a risk of harm to Mr M as a result of a particular conversation, then I 
consider its actions in alerting the emergency services to have been well-intentioned, even if 
Mr M regarded their presence at his home as intrusive and unnecessary. 
Its clear from looking at the history of this account that Mr M has made considerable efforts 
to bring his arrears down, but at the same time, he has been resistant to providing Platform 
with up-to-date income and expenditure information and agreeing a formal payment plan. 
Ive no doubt Mr M had his reasons for that, but the practical reality is that hed most likely 
have received far fewer calls from Platform had he been more willing to engage with it and 
commit to an arrangement rather than continue with his ad hoc efforts.
As to the calls themselves, I wont go into detail about the impact they have on Mr M as to do 
so might risk identifying him. But it is evident that there is a potential risk to his ability to work 
safely if he receives a high volume of incoming calls. But its incumbent on Mr M to mitigate 
the risk of distraction; from all incoming calls, not just those from Platform. 
In that context, Platforms suggestion that he switch his phone off when working seems to 
me to be sensible advice. Also, if the time Mr M has available to engage with Platform is 
limited by his working hours, he has the option of authorising someone (perhaps his wife 
who isnt a party to the mortgage) to act as his representative to deal with the business on 
his behalf.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr M to decide if, on further reflection, he 
wishes to accept the offer of £150 that Platform made in its final response in May 2019. If he 
does, he can contact Platform directly so that it can send him a fresh payment. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman