DRN-3021772
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage he has with Godiva Mortgages Limited. He 
says he wasnt aware that his mortgage was transferred to standard variable rate (SVR) 
when his interest rate product ended in 2012. Hes unhappy that he wasnt made aware of 
alternative products he could have taken at that time and as such he believes he has paid 
more interest than he should have. Hes also unhappy that Godiva didnt mention in 2018, 
when dealing with a different matter, that the mortgage was on SVR, but could have had a 
more advantageous interest rate product.
What happened
Mr G took out his mortgage with Godiva in 2010 following advice from an independent 
mortgage broker. An interest rate product was attached to the mortgage with a term running 
to the end of June 2012. This should have been explained to Mr G by his broker and it was 
set out in the mortgage offer he accepted. The mortgage offer said that on 1 July 2012 this 
mortgage will change to Godiva Mortgages Limiteds Standard Variable Rate, currently 
4.74% until the end of the mortgage term. 
In May 2012 Godiva wrote to Mr G to remind him that the interest rate product on his 
mortgage was due to expire soon and on 1 July 2012 the mortgage would move on to SVR. 
It explained that if Mr G didnt want the mortgage to move on to SVR, he could choose a new 
product to attach to the mortgage. If he wanted to, he should either discuss it with his 
independent adviser or call Godiva on the number provided. 
Two weeks before the product was due to end, Godiva wrote to Mr F and told him what his 
monthly payment would be from July 2012. It explained that the change was because his 
mortgage product had come to an end. It said that Mr G should ignore the letter if hed 
already arranged to take a different product. 
Mr G didnt contact Godiva and so the mortgage was moved on to SVR on 1 July 2020. 
Subsequently, Godiva sent Mr G several letters telling him about changes to the interest rate 
and his monthly payments. The letters gave Mr G a telephone number to call if he wanted to 
talk about the options available for the mortgage. 
In 2018 Mr Gs mortgage went into arrears because mortgage payments couldnt be 
collected from his bank. Godiva discussed the situation with Mr G, and he repaid the arrears 
and arranged a new direct debit mandate for future payments to be made. 
In early 2020 Mr G received advice from an independent source. He has told us he had paid 
potentially tens of thousands of pounds in extra interest on the mortgage since it changed to 
SVR in 2012, and this shouldnt have happened. Mr G complained.
Godiva responded to Mr Gs complaint. It said that it had told him at the time the mortgage 
was arranged when the product would end and what would happen when it did. It also 
confirmed that it had sent Mr G two letters in May and June 2012, before the product was 
due to end, which highlighted this was going to happen and made him aware that he could 
apply for another product. However, Mr G didnt contact it. Godiva was satisfied it had done 
what it should have. As for the interactions with Mr G in 2018, it said that while it wrote to 
him on several occasions, he didnt respond initially. It said that given the discussions were 
about arrears, it wouldnt have expected a discussion about adding a product to the 
mortgage. Its focus at the time was to get the mortgage arrears sorted out and the payments 
back on track. Godiva didnt consider it had done anything wrong.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Godivas response and asked this service to consider his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied Godiva had made it clear in the mortgage offer what would 
happen when the mortgage product expired. She also considered the letters Godiva sent to 
Mr G would have made him aware of the upcoming expiry of the product, that he had options 
and a new product could be taken and the mortgage would move on to SVR if he did 
nothing. The investigator pointed out that there was no requirement for Godiva to 
pro-actively seek the best product available for a consumer, without that consumers 
involvement. 
As for the discussions that took place in 2018, given the nature of the problem that required 
the discussions, the investigator didnt consider Godiva had a duty to discuss the interest 
rate on the mortgage. It reasonably dealt only with the pressing matter at the time. She didnt 
think Godiva had treated Mr G unfairly.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions and maintained that Godiva had a duty of 
care to offer him a new interest rate product. This was especially so in 2018 as he was 
suffering financial difficulties and struggling to pay the mortgage at the time. 
The investigator conducted some further investigations into the events in 2018. These 
investigations resulted in detail of the conversations Mr G had with Godiva in 2018 being 
provided. She was satisfied that Mr G didnt make Godiva aware that he was in financial 
difficulties at the time. Indeed, he had told it that he had been unaware of the arrears on the 
mortgage and had paid them in full immediately after finding out about them. As such, she 
wasnt persuaded to alter her conclusions that Godiva should have done more at that time. 
Mr G remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. He said that he was put in 
financial difficulty by Godiva having put his mortgage on SVR and believed it had taken in 
excess of £25,000 from him. He believed that this service had failed to address this, and the 
additional mortgage interest paid, along with interest for the loss of use of the money, should 
be paid to him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that he wasnt aware the mortgage had moved onto SVR in 2012 and that his 
mortgage broker told him that Godiva had a duty to tell him his product was ending and 
arrange another. Godiva has provided copies of letters it sent to Mr G before the product 
expires telling him it was about to expire, and if he didnt arrange an alternative product, the 
mortgage would move to SVR from 1 July 2012. It also told him how he could look into the 
options available to him; either through an independent adviser or by calling Godiva on a 
number provided. I know that this will disappoint Mr G, but I cant agree with him that Godiva had a duty to 
make sure he was on the most advantageous interest rate product. There was no 
requirement in 2012 for Godiva to remind him that the product was coming to an end, as it is 
a borrowers responsibility, especially a commercial borrower as Mr G would be considered, 
to manage their mortgage. The only obligation that was on Godiva was to inform him about 
the change to the amount that would be collected under the direct debit mandate that was in 
place. However, I am satisfied that Godiva went beyond what was required of it and it did 
highlight to Mr G that the product was coming to an end and it did so twice, in plenty of time 
for him to have arranged an alternative product if hed wanted to. 
I would comment that whilst many customers choose a new product for their mortgage to 
benefit from lower payments, some make a conscious choice not to in order to benefit from 
additional flexibility. Godiva couldnt have known that Mr G hadnt chosen to allow his 
mortgage on to SVR and keep it on that rate. I dont consider Godiva did anything wrong at 
in 2012 and, as such, I cant find it responsible if Mr G paid more mortgage interest than he 
would have if hed arranged a new interest rate product at that time.
As for the situation in 2018, I have reviewed the detail of the conversations Mr G had with 
Godiva about his account. I am satisfied Mr G didnt tell Godiva he was in financial 
difficulties, or even implied that was the case. Furthermore, I dont think it should have 
reasonably suspected there were any problems based on Mr Gs explanation and the fact 
that he had the money to repay the arrears immediately available. As such, I dont believe 
Godiva had any reason to look into the affordability of the mortgage or to raise issues about 
Mr Gs management of his mortgage that werent related to the significant matter being dealt 
with at that time. 
Overall, I consider Godiva acted reasonably in relation to the end of Mr Gs mortgage 
product and I dont consider it needed to have raised the issue again with him in 2018.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
17 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman