DRN-3660957
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has dealt with a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr J got in touch with Fairmead in 2018 after discovering crack damage to his home.
Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. They identified a tree 
they thought was causing the subsidence problem and Mr J had it removed.
A contractor was appointed to create a schedule of work to repair the damage. A 
disagreement arose about the extent of work required.
Mr J complained in October 2020. Fairmead provided its final response in December 
2020. It accepted there had been delays and offered him £250 compensation.
The claim continued and Fairmead updated the schedule of work to include, amongst 
other things, drainage repairs. On Mr Js request, it made an offer to cash settle the 
claim. Mr J complained about this in May 2021 as he didnt think the offer was 
enough for him to have the required work carried out privately. In part that was 
because he said Fairmeads schedule of work didnt include everything it should.
Fairmead provided a second final response in July 2021. It said its offer was based 
on the work required and was correct. It maintained it was prepared to carry out the 
work, or it could pay Mr J around £14,000, with the potential for VAT to be added too.
Mr J referred both his complaints to us in January 2022. He had quotes for around 
twice the amount Fairmead had offered, including more work than was in the 
schedule Fairmead had created, such as enhancing the foundation.
Our investigator said the first complaint response had been referred to us too late for 
us to consider it. Mr J had to refer it to us within six months but it had been over 12. 
But we were able to consider the second complaint response, as it had been referred 
to us in time. That meant the scope of our investigation would be the claim events 
from December 2020 to July 2021 only.
During our investigation, Fairmead said the foundation and building had stabilised as 
a result of removing the vegetation. So it didnt think any foundation work was 
required. But it offered to monitor the building for movement for six months to provide 
reassurance the building is stable. It accepted the schedule of work needed updating 
again to reflect the required repairs and suggested visiting Mr J to inspect the 
problems hed identified and update the schedule accordingly.
Our investigator thought Fairmeads offer to revisit and update the schedule, and 
monitor if Mr J wished, was a reasonable one to progress the claim. She said the 
way the claim had been handled during the relevant time had caused delays and 
recommended Fairmead pay £500 compensation for this.
Fairmead didnt respond. Mr J asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He made a 
number of points. In summary, he wasnt confident Fairmead would provide a 
reasonable schedule of work at a reasonable value. Nor did he think it would carry 
out the work promptly. He expressed concern about the way the claim had been 
handled throughout and noted the damage was getting worse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is the claim events that occurred between December 2020 and 
July 2021. We cant consider anything that happened earlier in the claim.
If Mr J has concerns about anything which happened after July 2021, hes entitled to make a 
complaint about that and he may be able to refer it to this service. For example, he 
mentioned problems renewing the policy in 2022. But I wont be considering them within this 
decision as theyre outside the scope of the complaint.
Mr J is concerned the building may not be stable and thinks the foundation needs to be 
enhanced. Fairmead says the building has been stabilised by removing the tree. Ordinarily, 
once the cause of subsidence has been removed, the building will naturally stabilise and 
foundation improvements arent required. I havent seen any expert evidence to suggest that 
wont be the case here.
However, I understand Fairmead has agreed with Mr J that drainage defects have also 
contributed to the movement. Whilst drainage repairs have been included in the schedule of 
work, my understanding is they havent been completed yet. As a result, its possible the 
defects may be contributing to continued movement. But theres no evidence to suggest their 
repair wont bring stability to the property or that the only way to stabilise the property is to 
enhance the foundation.
So, based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded Fairmead needs to improve the 
foundation as part of its schedule of work. Both of the quotes Mr J has provided included this 
work. Accordingly, Im not satisfied it would be fair to ask Fairmead to settle the claim based 
on the quotes.
Fairmead has offered to monitor the property if Mr J would like it to. I know Mr J doesnt want 
to prolong the claim. And Fairmead expects to see little, if any, movement with the tree 
removed. But I think its reasonable to give Mr J this option. Its up to him if he would like to 
take it. So I wont require Fairmead to monitor in case he doesnt want it to.
Fairmead accepts the schedule of work it provided in early 2021 needs to be updated in a 
number of ways. For example, fully rebuilding a wall and additional crack and patio repairs. It 
has suggested the most effective way to do this would be to inspect the damage as it is 
currently, before revising the schedule based on accurate measurements.
I agree it would be beneficial to arrange a visit to ensure the schedule is accurate. Given the 
delays reaching this stage and the numerous attempts to create a schedule so far, its 
important this visit produces a finalised, fully accurate schedule of work.With that in mind, I think the loss adjuster, contractor and Mr J should meet at the visit. The 
loss adjuster and contractor can go through the existing schedule, listen to Mr Js concerns 
about it and decide what to change. Those changes should be made promptly. It has often 
taken weeks or months to make schedule updates. I think it would be reasonable to expect 
the schedule to be updated and shared with Mr J with two weeks of the visit. Alongside the 
schedule, the loss adjuster should also explain the reason for any changes it hasnt agreed 
to make. Then all parties will be clear on the position.
Once the schedule has been updated, the loss adjuster can also provide a revised cash 
settlement to Mr J. He can then consider whether he would like Fairmeads contractor to 
carry out the work or whether he will take the cash settlement to arrange the work himself. If 
Mr J asks Fairmead to arrange for the work to be carried out, it must bear in mind its duty to 
provide a lasting and effective repair. Given the delays so far, it should also take into its 
requirement to handle claim promptly and ensure there are no further delays.
Fairmead has been clear its prepared to carry out the work, or provide a cash settlement to 
the equivalent value to Mr J. Im satisfied thats a reasonable approach to take. If Mr J asks 
Fairmead to carry out the work, he only needs to pay his excess and need not suffer any 
further financial loss. That places him in a fair position. But if he would prefer to arrange the 
work himself, hes entitled to do that. But I dont think it would be fair to make Fairmead 
increase the cash settlement to reflect the costs Mr J is likely to face on the open market. 
Thats because its offer to carry out the work will reasonably indemnify him. So I dont think it 
needs to pay more than the reasonable indemnity cost.
I agree with our investigator that Fairmead has caused avoidable delays. At the beginning of 
the timeframe, it was looking into updating the schedule. Things havent materially changed 
since then. Whilst an update has taken place, its not the finalised and fully accurate 
schedule. I cant see any reason why it should take so long to agree further changes  and 
have them reflected in a revised schedule of work that can be shared with Mr J.
Because of this, Im satisfied Fairmead ought to compensate Mr J for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused by the avoidable delay. Im satisfied £500 is a reasonable 
amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Update and finalise the schedule of work, as set out above.
Monitor the building for movement, if Mr J would like it to.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman