DRN-3093652
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service that he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) surrounding a payment he attempted to make which was blocked, including that 
RBS havent been able to provide him with a satisfactory explanation of why the block 
occurred.
What happened
Mr W attempted to make a purchase over the telephone using his RBS debit card, but the 
attempted transaction was declined. Mr W then attempted to make the purchase using a 
second RBS debit card, but this transaction was blocked also. Mr W then received a text 
message from RBS asking him to confirm whether the attempted transaction was legitimate, 
but because of the nature of Mr Ws mobile phone, he was unable to respond as required to 
authorise the payment, and his RBs accounts remained blocked.
Mr W then contacted his local branch for help but was advised that they were unable to 
assist him over the telephone and that he would have to visit the branch. Mr W then called 
RBSs fraud department to try to resolve the issue but was passed around various 
departments for a considerable time without anyone being able to help him.
Mr W wanted to understand why the attempted transaction had been blocked, and he used 
RBSs webchat facility to question this. Mr W noted that the Webchat agent that he 
communicated with identified themselves as working for an overseas company. Because of 
this, Mr W had concerns about providing his RBS security details to the agent, and so he 
ended the conversation.
Mr W then visited his local branch and asked for help in authorising the transactions. A 
member of staff called RBSs fraud department for Mr W, but Mr W felt that the attempted 
call would take too long, and so he left the branch but left his debit card with the branch staff 
to resolve the issue for him. However, the branch staff were unable to resolve the issue in  
Mr Ws absence, and they explained that they needed Mr W to be present in case the fraud 
department had any questions for him.
Sometime later, Mr W received a new text message from RBS asking him to confirm that the 
transactions were legitimate in a different manner. Mr W was able to follow the steps 
necessary to provide such confirmation and his RBS accounts were subsequently 
unblocked.
Mr W wasnt happy with the service that hed received from RBS, or that no one had been 
willing to explain to him why the attempted transactions had been declined. So, he raised a 
complaint.
RBS looked at Mr Ws complaint. They noted that the transactions had been blocked as a 
precaution by their anti-fraud system and explained that it wasnt their policy to provide 
explanations as to why certain payments were flagged by this system. RBS also felt that, 
generally speaking, they had provided a fair level of service to Mr W in regard to this issue, 
but acknowledged that Mr W had spent an unreasonable amount of time on the telephone 
trying to resolve the matter, and so they apologised to Mr W for this and made a payment to 
Mr W of £50 to compensate him for the trouble and upset the matter had caused.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response that RBS had 
already issued to Mr W, including the payment of £50 compensation, represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr W to have had his attempted 
transaction blocked by RBS and to then have been unable to initially authorise the 
transaction when RBS first sent him a text message to do this.
Mr W has stated that he wants an explanation from RBS as to why the transaction was 
blocked. However, I wouldnt expect RBS to provide such an explanation, and I say this both 
because of the constantly evolving nature of anti-fraud detection systems  and the lack of 
understanding of that system that RBSs customer facing staff would have  and also 
because providing information to customers such as Mr W would like here would potentially 
compromise RBSs fraud detection system and leave it open for manipulation.
It also must be noted that the role of this service isnt to tell a business how it should 
operate, but rather to assess whether the events specific to an individual complaint have led 
to an unfair outcome. This provides a further reasons as to why I wouldnt consider 
instructing RBS to provide the information about why the transactions were blocked to Mr W, 
and this is because RBS are entitled to hold a policy to not provide such information. And its 
for this same reason that I also wouldnt consider instructing RBS not to use a specific 
communication system, which Im aware Mr W is unhappy that RBS used to contact him, 
because again, its for RBS to decide which methods of communication they choose to use.
What I can consider here is whether an unfair outcome has arisen as a result of the events 
surrounding this complaint. But, given that I am satisfied that its reasonable for RBS to use 
a fraud prevention system and that its reasonable that this system flagged Mr Ws attempted 
transaction and prevented the transaction from taking place, my assessment of this 
complaint will focus on whether RBS acted fairly in how they attempted to assist Mr W in 
authorising the transaction and unblocking his accounts.
In the first instance, RBS sent a text message to Mr W that Mr W was unable to take 
advantage of because of the type of mobile phone that he uses. This was unfortunate, but I 
dont feel that RBS should be held accountable for this, and I say this because I feel that the 
majority of mobile phone users would have been able to authorise the payments via that text 
message but that, unluckily, in this instance, Mr W was not.
Mr W then contacted his local branch by telephone and was advised that he couldnt receive 
assistance from the branch remotely and that he would need to visit branch if he wanted 
their assistance. Its notable that the assistance that branch staff attempted to provide to    
Mr W, when he did later go into branch in person, took the form of telephoning RBSs fraud 
department on Mr Ws behalf, and so Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Mr W to have been told that branch staff would only be able to assist him in regard to this matter if he was 
personally present with them. 
Mr W then attempted to telephone RBSs fraud department himself but found himself passed 
between a succession of RBS agents, none of whom were able to help him. RBS have 
acknowledged that the of service that Mr W received in this regard wasnt to the standard 
that they aspire to, and they made a payment of £50 to Mr W to compensate him for this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. However, 
while I acknowledge that Mr W may disagree, the £50 that RBS have already paid to 
compensate him for the inconvenience that he incurred here does feel fair to me, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances. 
As such, I wont be instructing RBS to take any further action in relation this point.
Mr W then attempted to use RBSs webchat service to try to resolve the issue but became 
concerned when he was referred to an overseas service. Mr W has explained that he feels 
because of this that his accounts are controlled by an overseas party which appears to have 
the ability to restrict his accounts on a whim.
I can appreciate, to a degree, why Mr W may believe this. But I dont feel that the fact that 
RBS use customer facing teams that are based overseas necessarily leads to the 
conclusions that Mr W has arrived at here, and I note that RBS are entitled to use overseas 
employees if they so choose. It should also be confirmed that all of RBSs business which 
takes place in the UK, such as the administration of Mr Ws accounts, is subject to UK 
finance regulations, and this i regardless of whether RBSs employees are within the UK 
themselves or not. 
However, its also important to note that the role of this service doesnt extend to the 
assessment of UK finance regulations, and I would encourage Mr W to engage with an 
appropriate regulatory body, such as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), if he continues 
to have concerns about this.
Mr W did then visit his local RBS branch and asked for assistance in unblocking his 
accounts. Branch staff telephoned RBSs fraud department on his behalf, but Mr W was 
unwilling to remain in branch for the time necessary for this call to be successful, and so 
branch staff were unable to successfully unblock Mr Ws accounts.
Mr W has explained that he left the branch because he was concerned about his potential 
exposure to Covid-19, and that he left his debit card with branch staff so that they could 
resolve the matter in his absence. However, while I can understand why Mr W may have felt 
uncomfortable remaining in branch, I dont feel that I can reasonably censure RBSs branch 
staff for not continuing with the call to the fraud department following Mr W leaving branch, 
and this is because it would be expected that the customer themselves would handle a call 
to a fraud department so as to answer any customer specific questions that the fraud 
department may have.
Finally, Mr W received a second text message from RBS which allowed him to authorise the 
transactions in a different manner to the first text message and which Mr W was able to 
complete using his mobile phone. This resulted in Mr Ws accounts being unblocked so that 
the attempted transaction could be completed.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that RBS have treated Mr W unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and I say this because while I acknowledge Mr Ws frustrations, Im 
satisfied that RBSs actions when trying to help Mr W unblock his accounts were reasonable and in line with what this service would expect, and also because it wouldnt be expected 
that RBS would provide the information to Mr W that he was wanting for the reasons 
previously explained. Im also satisfied that the £50 compensation payment provided to Mr 
W by RBS does represent a fair resolution for the upset and inconvenience Mr W incurred 
when trying to resolve the matter on the telephone with RBSs fraud department.
It follows then that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing RBS to take any further action at this time. I resale that this wont be the outcome 
that Mr W was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman