DRN-3495263
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Rowanbank Financial Consultants Limited 
(Rowanbank) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme (OPS), and a personal pension, to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him as it was negligent. He believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Rowanbank approached Mr R in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr R 
says this was initially by a cold call. 
Rowanbank completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that:
He was 60 years old and married and with no dependents.
He owned his own home.
It wasnt recorded that he had any savings or investments.
He had no liabilities.
He had three pension plans. 
A DB scheme, which had a normal retirement age of 64. He had 12 years of service 
in this and it had a transfer value of £151,065.94. 
A personal pension with Clerical Medical which had a value of £90,070.34.
A second smaller DB scheme. 
As it was close to the time Mr R could retire without penalty in the second DB scheme 
Rowanbank advised him to do this. Mr R has not complained about this part of the advice he 
was given. 
Rowanbank also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk. It said this was 
balanced and his capacity for risk was moderate. 
In August 2017, Rowanbank advised Mr R to transfer the pension benefits of his large DB 
scheme, and his personal pension, into a Prudential SIPP. The SIPP invested in one of 
Prudentials managed funds. The total amount transferred was £241,136.28. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To pass his pension to his wife and children as a lump sum should he predecease 
them.
To have some flexibility over his retirement planning, such as taking withdrawals from 
his pension fund when he required them. 
Mr R complained in 2021 to Rowanbank about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
his circumstances, and in particular his attitude and capacity for risk, made the investment 
into a SIPP unsuitable for him. He said the advice to invest in a SIPP was too risky for him.
Rowanbank didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that:
Mr Rs fund had grown in value since the transfer, so he hadnt suffered a loss. 
Mr Rs circumstances and attitude to risk were fully assessed. It was suitable that 
Rowanbank advised him to start a SIPP. 
Mr R was fully advised about the SIPP including the costs of it. He was informed that 
the new pension arrangement was not guaranteed. 
The investments did not have more risk than he wanted to, or was able, to take. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Rowanbank to pay compensation. He said that:
Even though it was reasonable to assume that Mr R could take some risk, the 
transfer was not financially viable. 
Whilst Mr R had some health concerns there wasnt anything that indicated his life 
expectancy would be reduced and he would need to transfer for this reason. 
Mr R wanted more flexibility. But he already had this to some degree with the 
personal pension, and he would incur advice fees going forward. So, there was no 
reason to transfer either his OPS or the personal pension. 
Rowanbank disagreed, saying that:
Although the point of sale documentation didnt fully reflect this, Mr Rs health was 
poor and he wanted to make the transfer for this reason. He wanted to ensure that 
his family were looked after if anything happened to him. 
It reiterated that the transfers had not caused Mr R a loss as his funds had grown in 
value. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Rowanbank's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Rowanbank 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Ive looked at the transfer of the DB scheme benefits first. 
Financial viability of the DB scheme transfer 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 24.03% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 2.4% 
per year for 3 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. And Mr R would need a fund value of 
around £325,000 at retirement to purchase the benefits he was giving up.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr R's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr R was likely, if not almost certain, to 
receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with his tolerance to risk. This is because it was 
very unlikely that he would be able to receive returns of around 25% over three years in any 
mainstream investment. 
Rowanbank has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr R wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, and I do note that 
Rowanbanks models show that if Mr R drew £1,000 a month from the transferred fund it 
was estimated that, assuming a moderate growth rate, his fund would not decrease in value 
(or would decrease by only a small amount). But the cashflow models also showed that if Mr R took the same benefits as he would get 
from the DB scheme then the fund value would be reduced to zero at his age 85. So, there 
was a material risk of the fund being used up. 
And, as Rowanbank will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Rs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Rowanbank has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits would have been important to him, and he might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was 
to advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Rowanbank explored to what 
extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr R 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr R predeceased her. 
I dont think Rowanbank made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr R. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Rowanbank should not 
have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Rowanbank shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
I acknowledge that Mr R had a health condition and so appears to have had concerns about 
his life expectancy. But the advice was given on the basis that Mr R was in generally good 
health, for his age. And if any health problems he may have had were pivotal to the DB 
transfer decision, as Rowanbank now says, I would have expected this to have been 
documented at the time. 
And Mr R not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible that 
he would exceed this, in which case Mr R would need his pension to last longer. If Mr R 
transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on investment returns to ensure 
sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death benefits, whereas 
the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
And added to this Mr Rs existing personal pension would have provided a lump sum. Which 
when added to the spouses pension from the DB scheme, may have met his dependents 
needs in any event. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Rs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Whilst Mr R did 
have a personal pension he was not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had 
an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I 
dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr R  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
And as far as I am aware the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position 
such that Mr R should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. 
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr R required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age. Mr R says that he didnt need to access any cash. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr R had a strong need for a variable income throughout his 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
And Im satisfied Mr R could have met his income needs in retirement through his existing 
pension arrangements at age 65. Mr R wanted £12,000 per year in retirement, according to 
the information gathered by Rowanbank. And under the two DB schemes, Mr R was entitled 
to an annual income of just over £12,000, even if he took some tax-free cash from the 
smaller one. And this is without taking into consideration his state pension entitlement and 
his personal pension that had a fund value of £90,000. 
If it is correct that Mr R did only need £12,000 a year then he could have, for example, used 
his personal pension and drawn an income from his DB scheme later on. Or taken the 
benefits from his DB scheme and used the personal pension to bridge any gaps he had. 
So, I think its reasonable to say that leaving his pensions as they were couldve met his 
stated retirement aims. And he also already had a significant amount of flexibility overall 
given that he had a personal pension. Thinking about all of this, I dont think there was a 
pressing need for Mr R to change his pension arrangements for this reason. Especially given 
the financial loss he would suffer doing this. 
Was the transfer of the personal pension also unsuitable for Mr R
Ive talked about why I think Mr R shouldnt have transferred his DB scheme benefits above. 
And how any need for flexibility he had could be met with both his existing DB scheme and 
personal pension. But Ive also looked at whether there were any specific advantages or 
disadvantages to Mr R in making the transfer to a personal pension. 
As our investigator said, Mr R wasnt currently contributing to the personal pension with 
Clerical Medical. But it would pay a large pension bonus of 0.2% per year. The bonus would 
be lost on transfer.
Both providers offered a range of funds with differing charging structures and expected risks 
and performances. In broad terms I dont think there would be a material difference between how much it would cost Mr R to invest with either business, he could meet his investment 
needs with either of them. So, I dont think there was a real advantage in making the transfer 
due to the different investment opportunities. 
And by transferring Mr R would have to pay for ongoing advice. And Im not persuaded that 
he needed to pay for this advice, as I dont think the transfer was right for him. 
So, overall, I dont think there was a good reason for Mr R to transfer his personal pension 
benefits. And it may have been a more expensive option in the longer term. I dont think the 
personal pension transfer made the whole advice suitable for Mr R
Suitability of investments
Rowanbank recommended that Mr R invest in a managed fund. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme and the personal pension 
werent suitable for Mr R, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr R should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and personal pension and so the investments in the fund wouldnt have 
arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher, or different, death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But 
Rowanbank wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. Particularly in respect of the 
DB scheme transfer as he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By 
transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to potentially gain some 
flexibility, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Rowanbank shouldve advised Mr R to remain in the DB scheme and also to not 
transfer his personal pension into the SIPP.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Rowanbank's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Rowanbanks advice. I say this because Mr R 
was a relatively inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Rs 
retirement provision. So, if Rowanbank had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his health were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser didnt think it was suitable for him 
or in his best interests. If Rowanbank had explained that Mr R could meet all of his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.In light of the above, I think Rowanbank should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R for the DB part of the transfer.  
What should Rowanbank do?
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr R as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if Rowanbank had given him suitable advice. I think Mr R would have remained in the 
DB scheme. I also think he would have retained his existing personal pension arrangements.
To compensate Mr R fairly, Rowanbank must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value 
is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mr R had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Rowanbank must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr R lost as a result of 
transferring out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.Rowanbank may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Rowanbank to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr R back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Rowanbanks error. I think this would have meant he 
remained invested in his Clerical Medical personal pension.
Any loss Mr R has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from Clerical Medical on the basis that it had been invested in the same funds, and 
subtracting the current value of the pension from this notional value. If the answer is 
negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint. 
However, if Clerical Medical isnt able to calculate a notional value, my aim is to put Mr R as 
close to the position he would probably now be in if he had invested similarly. 
Its not possible to say precisely where Mr R wouldve invested. But I think what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr Rs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Rowanbank must compare the total value of the Clerical Medical personal pension 
transferred to Mr Rs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below to determine the fair 
value of Mr Rs Clerical Medical Personal Pension if suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Value of the 
switched 
(personal 
pension)Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Rowanbank totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
Rowanbank receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Rowanbank to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr R's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Rowanbank Financial 
Consultants Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Rowanbank Financial Consultants Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Rowanbank Financial Consultants Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Rowanbank Financial Consultants Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Rowanbank Financial 
Consultants Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr R accepts this decision. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman