DRN-1397933
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G received a renewal quote from Triton at the beginning of January 2019. Their 
policy was due for renewal in mid-February 2019. To ensure their policy remained in force, 
Mr and Mrs G paid 50% of the renewal premium a week or so before the renewal date. The 
amount paid was £209.68.
When the insurance documents arrived, Mr and Mrs G noticed several errors. They called 
Triton to correct the errors and were told it would cost them an additional £200. As the policy 
hadnt reached its renewal date at that stage, Mr and Mrs G asked Triton to lapse the policy 
from the renewal date and return the money they had paid. Mr and Mrs G took out insurance 
with another provider.
They didnt hear anything from Triton and they never received their money back. So, they 
raised a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs G. She asked Triton to refund the deposit of £209.68, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the upset the 
matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs G have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs G paid Triton before their policy renewed to ensure their policy remained active. 
And, once they were aware that the premium would increase based on the correct 
information, they made sure they asked Triton to lapse the policy from the renewal date. So, 
Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have allowed the policy to renew at this point. And they should 
have refunded the deposit Mr and Mrs G paid to them. 
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the deposit paid by Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G have also confirmed that they asked to speak to Triton several times to try and 
get their money back, and they were always told Triton were too busy or they would return their calls. They never did. Because of this, its also reasonable for Triton to pay 
Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience 
and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs G their deposit of £209.68;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs G 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman