DRN-2482870
The complaint
Mr J complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined his claim under his 
landlords insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, and largely not in 
dispute so Ill only summarise them here.
Mr J tells us he submitted an on-line claim to AXA in June 2019 for damage to a 
property he rented out. He says he hadnt heard anything so called AXA in April 
2020. AXA could find no record of the claim made in 2019 so took details over the 
phone. AXA indicated it would consider the claim.
Mr J provided AXA with photographs highlighting what he considered to be malicious 
damage caused by the tenant who had rented the property. Mr J also shared an 
adjudication report from an independent deposit scheme dispute resolution service. 
After considering the claim AXA declined it. It said Mr Js testimony and photographs 
and the deposit scheme adjudication report indicated that much of the damage was 
attributable to wear and tear during the 5 year tenancy. And it said the deposit 
scheme adjudication made an award for other damage to the property so it wouldnt 
consider this damage under the policy.
Mr J complained to AXA as he felt the damage was malicious, or accidental and 
therefore covered by the policy. AXA maintained its position and responded to the 
points Mr J had raised and invited him to submit further evidence. Mr J brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt AXA had acted reasonably in declining the claim and didnt 
consider the damage to be malicious. He noted that a general condition of the policy 
under making a claim said You must as soon as You reasonably can:- Inform the 
police if property is lost or if theft or malicious damage or vandalism is suspected 
and there was no evidence Mr J had reported the damage to the police.
The investigator also considered if the damage might be deemed accidental damage. 
This is defined in the policy as damage caused by violent external means. He was 
more persuaded that the damage was due to wear and tear than accidental. And that 
any damage that might be considered accidental had been compensated for in the 
award by the independent deposit scheme dispute resolution service.  
Mr J remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive considered 
these and have read everything hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar 
detail. So if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel the need to reference it to 
explain my decision. I hope Mr J doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Its not unusual for insurance policies not to define malicious damage, and Mr Js 
doesnt. I agree with our investigator that there is no evidence that the tenants acted 
maliciously, intending to cause harm. That is not to say the tenants werent careless 
or neglectful or caused more wear and tear than Mr J wouldve wished or expected. 
Mr J has mentioned the tenants dried their washing in the property rather than using 
the garden, causing mould, and didnt wash the curtains causing them to need to be 
replaced. And that there are chips to laminate flooring and kitchen surfaces, and 
scratch marks caused by the tenants dog. Whilst all very unpleasant Im not satisfied 
these were deliberate, malicious acts by the tenant or their dog. Other points Mr J 
makes include deterioration of the garage facia and front door and Im more 
persuaded this is due to lack of care and maintenance than malicious or accidental 
damage.
Mr J has also said a radiator was ripped off a wall causing damage, and an archway 
in the house has been badly damaged. But he hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
Ive considered the adjudication report Mr J provided from an independent deposit 
scheme dispute resolution service. The deposit was £1,362.50 and Mr J claimed a 
total of £5,320.80 for cleaning, damage, redecoration and other items. The 
adjudication service awarded Mr J £380, mostly for damage with the balance of 
£982.50 returned to the tenant. The report mentions a considerable amount of wear 
and tear and weathering and maintenance. When considered alongside other 
evidence Mr J has provided Im satisfied that any accidental damage to the property 
has already been compensated for, and that other damage was broadly in line with 
that reasonably expected after a 5 year tenancy.
Ive seen the pictures showing the condition of the property and I dont doubt that it 
isnt in the same condition as when Mr J rented it out 5 years earlier. There are signs 
of damage but on balance Im more persuaded this was caused by general wear and 
tear and a lack of care and maintenance during the 5 year tenancy. And loss or 
damage arising from wear and tear is excluded under the accidental damage 
sections of the policy for both buildings and contents. 
Ive considered everything Mr J has said in response to the investigators view, 
including his dissatisfaction with the decision of the independent deposit scheme 
dispute resolution service which he provided to us. And that he didnt report what he 
considered to be malicious damage to the police as he didnt feel the evidence was strong enough. I also note his professional experience. However, on balance, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied AXA have acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman