DRN-4038217
The complaint
Mr G complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt offer him reasonable compensation 
following its failure to provide him with information about his options when he took some 
pension benefits in 2018.
What happened
Mr G has been assisted in reviewing his pension provision, and in making this complaint, by 
his financial advisor. But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication 
as having been with, and from, Mr G himself.
Since Mr G took his pension benefits, another firm has taken over the ownership of that part 
of Zurichs pension business. Zurich remains responsible for this complaint, and for putting 
things right for Mr G, but it has relied on information provided by the actuaries of the new 
business.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Zurich should do in order 
to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
Mr G held pension savings with Zurich in two different plans  a Group Transfer Plan 
(GTP) and a Zpen policy. In August 2018 Zurich issued retirement options, at 
Mr Gs request, for his GTP benefits. In September 2018 Mr G informed Zurich that 
he wished to claim the maximum pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
generally known as tax free cash) and transfer his remaining pension savings to 
another provider. Mr G says the amount that was transferred was £33,776.
In February 2019 Mr G decided to claim on his Zpen policy. At that time he became 
aware that it would have been possible to transfer his GTP benefits into the Zpen 
policy. And that would have meant his pension benefits were increased. Mr G says 
that his financial advisor obtained quotations from Zurich that showed that if the 
transfer had taken place he would have received an additional PCLS of £8,684 and a 
pension income of £1,303 per annum that included dependants benefits and annual 
inflation linked increases.
Zurich accepted that the information it provided to Mr G about his options when 
taking his GTP benefits had been deficient. So it offered him some compensation. 
Zurich told Mr G that he could either be paid a taxable lump sum of £28,627.03 or a 
taxable annual income of £688.21. But although it says that compensation was 
calculated by the actuaries of the new firm, it has been unable to provide either Mr G, 
or us, with further details to support those offers.
 
With assistance from his financial advisor, Mr G provided Zurich with an alternative 
estimation of his loss. He calculated that, after deducting the additional PCLS from 
the transfer value he received, he would be able to purchase an annuity on the open 
market valued at £417 per annum. So he thought that he had missed out on 
additional income of £886 as a result of Zurichs error. He didnt therefore accept 
Zurichs offer and brought his complaint to this Service.
When I started to review the complaint I noted that neither party had provided any 
reasonable evidence to support the loss calculations they had undertaken. So 
I asked both Mr G and Zurich for additional supporting evidence. Zurich replied that it 
was unable to gather further information from the business that has taken over its 
pension plans. Mr G asked his financial advisor to update the calculations that had 
been performed when he first made his complaint. As a result of changing annuity 
rates, and Mr G becoming two years older, Mr G told us that he now thought the 
additional annuity income Zurich had offered was reasonable. But he noted that he 
had been without that income for two years, so would expect Zurich to make 
backdated payments.
Matters such as these are not easy to decide. Whilst it is clear, and Zurich entirely 
accepts, that Mr G was not given sufficient information when he asked for quotations 
on his GTP plan, it is difficult given the time that has elapsed to fairly calculate the 
loss that has been incurred. Mr G has taken his benefits from the GTP scheme in an 
alternative form, and I dont consider it appropriate, or potentially even possible, for 
those decisions to be unwound.
 
It is disappointing that Zurich hasnt been able to provide further evidence to support 
the estimate it has made of Mr Gs losses. Whilst I entirely accept the explanation it 
has provided, and agree, to some degree, that it is reliant on the actions of a third 
party to provide the necessary information, Zurich is still responsible for dealing with 
this complaint. And as a regulated business I would generally consider that the 
burden of performing, and explaining, complicated calculations such as these should 
be its responsibility rather than that of Mr G or this Service.
Whilst he hasnt provided us with evidence of the annuity rates that are available to 
him, Mr G has at least given us some explanation for his calculations. But those 
explanations have naturally been affected by the passage of time. Since Zurich first 
made its loss calculation, there have been many changes in the underlying 
circumstances. Mr G is now two years older, interest rates have risen, and so there 
have been corresponding changes in the annuity rates that are available to Mr G.
I havent seen evidence of the quotation Mr G says he received from Zurich of the 
alternative benefits that he could have received had his pension savings been 
transferred into the Zpen plan. But unless Zurich provides alternative information in 
response to this provisional decision I have no reason to doubt what he says. Mr G 
says that, had his pension benefits been transferred to the Zpen plan he would have 
received an additional PCLS of £8,684 and a pension income of £1,303 per annum 
that included dependants benefits and annual inflation linked increases.
So those are the pension benefits that I would expect Zurich to put in place, from the 
date that Mr G took his Zpen benefits, in order to correct its error. But of course, Mr G 
has taken the remainder of his GTP benefits in the form of a transfer to another 
provider. So the equivalent value of that transfer should be deducted from the 
compensation that Zurich needs to pay. And ascertaining that equivalent value is 
where the dispute between Mr G and Zurich appears to arise.
I think the additional PCLS is relatively easy to deal with. The funds that Mr G 
transferred to the new provider would give him a taxable income since he had 
already taken the PCLS before the transfer. So an allowance needs to be made for the additional income tax that Mr G will pay as a result of the loss of the further PCLS 
payment. Based on an additional PCLS of £8,684, and an assumption that Mr G is a 
basic rate taxpayer, I calculate that amount to be £2,171, although I invite both 
parties to confirm that calculation as part of their response to this provisional 
decision.
Mr G says that Zurichs quotation showed that he would have received an annuity of 
£1,303 per annum if his GTP benefits had been transferred into the Zpen plan. Zurich 
should provide Mr G with a clear and transparent estimation of what annuity rate 
would be currently available to him on the open market, based on the same 
characteristics as the Zpen annuity he took (eg dependants benefits, guarantee, 
escalation rates etc). That rate can then be used to estimate the capital value of the 
remaining benefits that Mr G transferred (£33,776 less the additional PCLS of 
£8,684) in terms of an annuity income. Zurich should then arrange an annuity for 
Mr G to represent the difference between the annuity that can be purchased now, 
and the estimated income if the benefits had been transferred into the Zpen plan.
 
But that additional annuity would have been paid to Mr G since 2019. So Zurich 
should also make a payment to Mr G to reflect those additional annuity payments he 
would have received since he took his Zpen benefits. But, that income would have 
been taxable, so Zurich can reduce this part of the compensation to notionally reflect 
the tax Mr G would have paid at his marginal rate. I assume that to be 20%, but Mr G 
should confirm that in response to this provisional decision. Zurich should add simple 
interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of the net additional annuity payments 
from the date they would have been paid to the date of settlement.
It is clear that Zurichs failure to provide all the appropriate information to Mr G when 
he took his GTP benefits will have caused significant disruption to his retirement 
planning. So I intend to direct Zurich to pay an additional sum of £300 to Mr G for the 
inconvenience hes been caused.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Since then I have had extensive discussions with both Mr G and Zurich 
that has allowed me to reach a position of consensus on the compensation that should be 
paid. I will set out that compensation below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained earlier, both parties now agree about what needs to be done in order to put 
things right for Mr G. I will set out below in some detail those steps, so that it is clear what is 
required.
But given that agreement I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr Gs complaint should be 
upheld and that Zurich should pay him appropriate compensation including the sum of £300 
that I proposed in my provisional decision for the significant disruption caused to Mr Gs 
retirement planning.Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr G, Zurich should do the following;
Mr G has confirmed he is a basic rate taxpayer. By not transferring his pension 
savings into the Zpen plan he lost the opportunity to take an additional PCLS 
payment of £8,684. So Zurich should pay Mr G £2,171 to reflect the additional 
income tax he will need to pay.
Zurich should calculate the cost of purchasing, on the open market, an annuity to 
reflect the income Mr G could have received from the Zpen policy for his transferred 
benefits. That annuity should be based on the same terms as the Zpen annuity he 
took (eg dependants benefits, guarantee, escalation rates etc).
Zurich should pay Mr G the difference between the annuity cost calculated above 
and the residual amount transferred to the new provider (£25,092). Given the annuity 
if taken would have provided a taxable income I think it reasonable to reduce that 
payment to allow for a notional income tax deduction of 20%.
Mr G has missed out on some potential annuity income. So Zurich should pay a lump 
sum to Mr G to reflect the additional annuity payments (that could have been 
purchased by the compensation calculated above before the deduction of the 
notional tax) he would have received in the period since he took his Zpen benefits. 
The annuity payments should be notionally reduced to reflect the income tax Mr G 
would have paid.
Add interest at a rate of 8% simple to each of the above payments from the date they 
would have been paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires 
Zurich to take off tax from this interest. Zurich must give Mr G a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off this interest payment if he asks for one.
Pay a sum of £300 to Mr G to reflect the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
Zurich should set out its calculations of the above compensation for Mr G in a clear, and 
easily understandable format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman