DRN-1535997
 
The complaint
Miss W says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss W says Sunny failed to check whether the loans were affordable for her. 
She says that if it had, it wouldnt have lent to her.  
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit facility and four short-term loans (Ill refer to them 
all as loans in this decision and have numbered them for ease of reference) Sunny provided 
to Miss W between October 2014 and November 2015. Miss Ws borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 21/10/2014 06/03/2015 Running Credit £250.00
2 07/02/2015 06/03/2015 6 £150.00
3 08/04/2015 26/06/2015 6 £250.00
4 29/06/2015 07/08/2015 6 £250.00
5 19/11/2015 27/05/2016 6 £250.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ws complaint and thought loan five shouldnt have 
been given as there was an indication that Miss W was having problems managing her 
money. 
Sunny disagreed. It said it carried out sufficient and proportionate checks and Miss Ws 
income suggested she could easily afford the borrowing. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss W didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss W had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
Miss Ws complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Sunnys response to the adjudicator in that what Miss W had told it about her 
income and expenditure would suggest the lending was affordable for her. But, as our 
adjudicator explained, if a check had been carried out that had been proportionate to the 
length of time the borrowing relationship had been in place when loan five was applied, then 
I think Sunny would have seen that it should have asked Miss W more questions about her 
financial circumstances and sought more evidence for the answers she may have given.
I say this because I think that Sunny would have seen Miss W was using other short-term 
credit providers and was still due to make further repayments on that borrowing at the time Miss W applied for loan five. By using other providers as well as Sunny this suggests to me 
that Miss W was struggling to manage her finances and was juggling her money to make 
ends meet. 
And I notice that when Miss W repaid loan three, which she repaid early, she returned only 
three days later to take another loan, loan four, and for the same amount. By repaying a loan 
well before the term agreed at the outset, while saving the customer interest, this can equally 
be an indication that they are not managing their personal finances effectively.
If Sunny had taken the above into account, I think it would have questioned whether it was 
fair to carry on lending to Miss W when she applied for loan five. The borrowing relationship 
had been in place for more than 12 months, so Miss W had been indebted to Sunny all of 
that time and paying interest throughout. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan five and Sunny should 
put things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Miss Ws loan has been transferred to a third party Sunny 
should buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Miss W having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss W. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation to loan five. 
                                                                                                                                
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Miss W still has an outstanding balance due, then Sunny should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Miss W in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Miss W fairly. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman