DRN-3903555
The complaint
Mr S complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited s valuation of his car when he 
claimed under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
After Mr Ss car was damaged in an accident, Admiral decided that it was beyond economic 
repair. So they offered him an amount for its market value, later increasing it and adding 
interest and £25 compensation.
Mr S didnt think this was enough. He said he couldnt buy an equivalent car with that. He 
also wanted Admiral to pay for his car hire costs and for his time spent on having to 
complain.
The investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Admiral 
had valued the car fairly and reasonably. Mr S didnt agree and so Ive been asked to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr S our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. That other evidence might include advertisements detailing the sale 
prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised 
price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices.
Ive looked at his policy and it says: 
Market value
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term 'market' refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral at first offered Mr S £2,950 less excess and outstanding premium but then 
apologised and increased it to £3,170 with the same deductions but adding interest and 
some compensation as above. 
As the investigator explained, Admiral had looked at four trade guides. One couldnt provide 
a valuation due to the cars age. Another gave a valuation which was much lower than all the 
others and so Admiral discounted it as being an outlier. That worked in Mr Ss favour when 
Admiral averaged the guides. The remaining two guides valuations were (A): £2,890 and (B) 
£3,450. This gave an average valuation of £3,170.
Mr S still didnt think this was enough. He said hed bought his car for £4,500 only about a 
year earlier and its value must have increased since then as he felt other second-hand cars 
had. However the guides use up to date figures and so take this into account. Mr S also 
thought that Admiral had wrongly categorised his automatic car and so had valued it as a 
manual, which had led to a lower valuation. He said hed had to take on debt to replace his 
old car, spent his own money on car hire costs and spend over twenty hours on the phone to 
Admiral.
Although the guide (A) amount did show the valuation of a manual sequential gearbox,  I 
havent been shown that makes any material difference. Guide (B) was higher though it 
didnt mention the type of gearbox, which suggests the guide didnt consider it relevant. And 
the much lowest valuation, which Admiral therefore discounted as anomalous, was for a 
semi-automatic model. So the overall evidence doesnt suggest that Mr Ss cars gearbox 
type does increase the valuation. 
And although Mr S showed us adverts for higher priced cars, they were newer models and, 
in any event, we find trade guides more persuasive, for the reasons given above. As the 
investigator explained. Admiral had acted in line with their policy terms and had valued Mr 
Ss car it in accordance with our guidance. So its a reasonable valuation and I wont ask 
Admiral to increase it. 
And I cant say that Admiral took an unreasonably long time to make payment. Admiral made 
their first settlement offer about ten days after Mr S reported his cars accident and when 
they increased it about six weeks later, they paid interest as we recommend insurers do. 
Although Mr S said he spent time complaining, making a motor insurance claim is always 
likely to require some inconvenience. Again, as Admiral offered a fair market value within a 
reasonable time I dont require them to compensate him any more. 
As regards hire car costs, Mr Ss policy makes clear on page 9 that he was only entitled to a 
courtesy car hire if Admiral had agreed to repair his car but not, as here, if they decided it 
was beyond economic repair. This is normal in car insurance policies, and we dont think it is 
unreasonable. Car hire is not an insured loss as it isnt covered by a consumers policy, 
though they may be able to recover it from the person responsible in certain circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
