DRN-3186831
The complaint
Ms W feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to her account 
when she was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms W complained to Barclays about overdraft charges and interest applied to her account. 
She specifically referred to a period of time after August 2018 when she was unable to work 
due to disability, and so was seriously struggling with her finances. Ms W says Barclays 
charges and interest made her situation worse.
Barclays did not uphold Ms Ws complaint, so she referred her concerns to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ws concerns, she explained that she didnt think 
Barclays had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Ms Ws account. Ms W disagreed and 
so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Ms Ws complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged Ms W over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Ms W if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Ms W 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Barclays did treat Ms W unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious signs of financial difficulties that 
should have flagged to Barclays that Ms W might need some help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Ms W wasnt in financial difficulties, I can entirely 
understand that being unable to work for an extended period would have had a serious 
impact on her finances. But while I accept that Ms W was using her overdraft regularly, the 
amount being credited to the account each month didnt indicate that there was no 
reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft 
was regularly repaid by credits to the account. I note that Ms W has said her income during 
this period relied on benefits, but being in receipt of benefits is, in itself, not necessarily a 
sign of financial difficulties. So while I note that the income into the account had reduced, I 
dont think this was enough to flag to Barclays that something might be wrong.
As Ive said, I accept that this doesnt mean that Ms W werent experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything which I think ought to have triggered Barclays to review 
her account in more detail, or alerted Barclays to any potential financial difficulty. So, in 
these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did or that should have prompted Barclays to 
contact Ms W directly to ask if she needed help.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms W, but Im satisfied that Barclays 
hasnt treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman