DRN-3264510
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined cover for a claim she made 
on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N owns a property and insures this with an insurer, A. The policy includes an add-on 
legal expenses insurance policy provided by Amtrust.
A has made unauthorised alterations to the property. Mrs N sought to take legal action 
against her relative and made a claim on the policy. Amtrust has declined cover for the claim 
as it says that theres an exclusion for any claims relating to property disputes where the 
property the dispute arises at isnt the policyholders main home. Theres a separate 
complaint which has been made about A as Mrs N says she was given incorrect advice that 
the claim was covered.
Mrs N complained to Amtrust and then our service about the decision to decline cover for the 
claim. Our investigator thought that Amtrust had acted fairly and declined cover in line with 
the policys terms and conditions. Mrs N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Im only considering the actions of Amtrust in declining cover for Mrs Ns 
claim. I cant look into As actions or the advice given to Mrs N by A about the claim. 
Mrs Ns claim was considered under the property disputes section of the policy. It hasnt 
been suggested that any other section of the policy could cover the nature of her dispute. 
The policy terms and conditions state theres cover for:
Advisers costs to pursue a legal action for:
nuisance or trespass against the person or organisation infringing your rights in 
relation to your main home.
Financial compensation for damages against a person or organisation that causes 
physical damage to your main home or your personal effects.
The policy terms and conditions dont include any definition of main home. So I need to 
consider the ordinary meaning of this. I think its fair to say that someones main home would 
be their usual home address, which they use for correspondence and for official purposes.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that Mrs Ns main home isnt the property which shes making 
the claim about  her correspondence address is different and her relative has made 
alterations to the property without her knowledge or permission  and I think shed likely 
have been aware of these changes if it was her main home.
Im also aware that the policy Mrs N has claimed on is an add-on to a property insurance 
policy. The property insured is the one which gives rise to the claim, not her main home. Ive 
considered whether the main home condition should be interpreted as meaning the same 
property as is insured on the policy. I dont think it should be. If the intention was for the 
property disputes section of the policy to apply to the insured property, then the policy would 
say that. Instead, it refers to the policyholders main home.
Im satisfied that Amtrust has acted fairly when it declined cover for Mrs Ns claim. The 
relevant section of cover only applies to disputes about her main home. The property which 
gives rise to the dispute isnt her main home.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman