DRN-3807708
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr A received a phone call from someone claiming to be from an investment company. The 
caller showed Mr A showed the companys website and discussed possible investments with 
him. And a number of payments were then made from Mr As account with Monzo, to invest 
with the company. Unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
Mr A said he was given log-in details to an online platform where he could check the 
progress of his investments. And, as he appeared to be making a significant profit, he 
contacted the investment company to withdraw his profits. But the investment company told 
him he needed to pay insurance and taxes on his profits before he could withdraw them, 
which made him suspicious. So he looked the investment company up online and saw there 
were warnings about them being a scam. Mr A then reported the payments to Monzo and 
asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it thought Mr A had authorised the payments, so it didnt agree 
to refund them. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought it was likely Mr A had 
authorised the payments, as they were made using his mobile device. And they didnt think 
any of the payments were unusual or out of character for Mr A, so they didnt think Monzo 
ought to have done more before allowing them to go through. Mr A disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr A authorise the payments?
Generally a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
Mr A has said he didnt make the payments that were made out of his Monzo account, and 
that they were done by the scammers when they took remote control of his mobile phone. 
But, from what I understand, the app hes said the scammers used to control his phone cant 
be used to control his model of phone  only to view what is shown on the screen.
Monzo has sent us technical evidence showing how the payments were made. And from 
this, Im satisfied all the payments Mr A has disputed were made using his genuine mobile 
device  that was also used to make payments both before and after these payments, that 
Mr A hasnt disputed.
Mr A hasnt suggested any other way that the scammers were able to access his phone, or 
make the payments without his consent. So, as the payments were made with his phone and 
there doesnt appear to have been any way for the scammers to control his phone remotely, 
I think its likely Mr A was at least aware of the payments and consented to them being made.
I recognise he didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, but the starting position is 
therefore that he is liable for the payments and Monzo doesnt have to refund them.
Should Monzo have done more to protect Mr A?
Where a customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Monzo should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Monzo should have identified that Mr A was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of any of the payments he made.
But I dont think any of the payments out of Mr As account were for particularly large 
amounts. Having looked at the statements for his account, I dont think the payments were 
for particularly unusual amounts in comparison to the usual activity on his account, or that 
they left the balance of his account at a particularly unusual position. And I dont think the 
payments formed a particularly suspicious pattern that Monzo ought to have identified either. 
So I think its reasonable that Monzo didnt identify that Mr A was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of these payments and didnt ask any further questions before allowing them to 
go through.
I sympathise with the position Mr A has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think Monzo has acted unreasonably and so I dont think it 
would be fair to require it to refund the money Mr A lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman