DRN-3264388
The complaint
Ms B is complaining that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt send her a replacement credit card 
when they said they would.
What happened
Ms B has a credit card account with Capital One.
In July 2021 she asked Capital One to send her a replacement card. The adviser didnt 
request the new card properly, so Ms B didnt receive it.
Ms B called Capital One again a number of times and was reassured her card was being 
sent out, but she still didnt receive it. On 31 August 2021 she spoke to a manager at Capital 
One, who arranged to pay her £100 in compensation.
On 6 September 2021 Ms B brought her complaint to us. She said she still hadnt received 
her new card and she didnt think £100 was fair compensation. Capital One replied to us to 
say there had been a further delay in issuing Ms Bs card following the conversation of 31 
August 2021, but her card had been issued by late September 2021. They offered another 
£50 in compensation.
An investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint and thought the offer made by Capital One was 
fair. But Ms B doesnt agree. Shes mentioned that the £100 refund was initially applied to 
her account incorrectly. She doesnt think £150 will encourage Capital One to improve their 
customer service. She thinks Capital One should pay her compensation in the region of 
£1,000.
Ms Bs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to decide if the level of service Capital One provided to Ms B has fallen short 
here  because theyve already accepted that it did, and have offered her compensation. So 
what I have to decide is if Capital Ones overall offer of compensation is fair.
Ms B has explained the impact of Capital Ones actions. She says she was relying on using 
the credit card during a time when her income had been reduced due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, and she needed to redirect money from elsewhere to pay for essentials because 
she didnt have her credit card. She says her pet passed away, but she didnt receive her 
new card in time to pay for cremation, and she spent hours on the phone to Capital One 
sorting things out. 
Ive no doubt this was a frustrating experience for Ms B. And I dont wish to minimise the 
impact this has had on her. But Im also mindful that it appears she was able to access 
money elsewhere to pay for her essentials. I should also explain that our awards arent 
intended to fine or punish a business, or to change the way they act in future.
 
While Capital Ones delay in sending her card has certainly been inconvenient for Ms B, I 
dont think its caused her the substantial distress, upset and worry wed normally associate 
with awards in the region of £1,000.
I understand Ms Bs now received the £100 payment, and Capital One have offered an 
additional £50. Taking everything Ms Bs said into account, I do think the total compensation 
of £150 is fair, reasonable and in line with awards weve made in similar circumstances. So 
although Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, Im not going to ask Capital One to increase their 
offer.
My final decision
Capital One (Europe) plc have already paid Ms B £100, and have made an offer to pay 
another £50 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Ms B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman