DRN-3032732
The complaint
Ms G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt provide her with the 
service it should have.
 
What happened
Ms G visited a NatWest branch and was trying to use the automated machines but 
encountered problems. She was told she was using the wrong machine but also had 
problems with the second machine. She says a member of staff took away her payment slip 
and then took her card out of the cash machine and started to walk away. Ms G says she 
was concerned about her card being taken as the staff member had already asked for her 
bank details. Ms G asked for her card back and the staff member returned this.
Ms G says she wasnt told why the bank staff member walked away with her card and she 
hasnt been compensated for this complaint.
NatWest said in its final response letter that that the bank card would have been taken to 
assist with identification and to help Ms G with her query. However, it appreciated that Ms G 
would like to have been asked first and had the reason explained at the time. 
Ms G referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think that NatWest had 
done anything substantially wrong. She believed the staff members at NatWest were trying 
to assist Ms G when she visited the branch and took Ms Gs card as a means to identify her. 
She thought NatWest could have given Ms G more information about why the card was 
needed at the time and when Ms G asked about this.
Ms G asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G visited a branch and experienced problems when trying to use the automated 
machines. Having looked at the information provided about this visit I find it reasonable to 
accept that the staff members were trying to assist Ms G. 
A staff member took Ms Gs bank card and I can understand why this worried Ms G. 
However, I have nothing to suggest that this was done for any reason that would have an 
adverse impact on Ms G. Instead, I find it more likely than not that the reason given by 
NatWest - that the staff member took the card to further assist Ms G - is why the card was 
taken. I agree that this could have been explained at the time and note that NatWest 
recognised this in its final response letter.
I also note that the additional amount that Ms G received at this time into her account was 
confirmed as being 50p and that NatWest confirmed this didnt need to be repaid.
Therefore, while I understand why Ms G was concerned by her card being taken, I dont 
think that NatWest did anything substantially wrong and I note the card was returned when 
Ms G requested this. Therefore, on balance, I do not find that I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman