DRN-3257874
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly applied a 
higher excess when settling a claim for theft of lead and damage to its roof. Reference to 
AXA includes its agents. 
Mr K, who is a director of T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
In April 2011 T made a claim for theft of lead against the buildings cover of its Surgery 
Insurance policy. AXA settled the claim however, in every subsequent renewal it increased 
the excess on the policy. An endorsement was applied to the policy in respect of the theft of 
lead and resultant damage, stipulating that the excess payable for such claims would be the 
first £1,500 or 15 %, whichever was greater.
In 2020 T made a further claim for theft of lead and damage to its roof. AXA applied the 
increased excess when settling the claim as per the policy. T was unhappy that the 
endorsement for increased excess hadnt been removed at subsequent renewals 
considering it hadnt made a claim for theft of lead for nine years (since 2011). T felt by 
imposing such conditions, they were more onerous on T than they would be on a new 
customer, which was unfair. 
AXA said they didnt think it was unreasonable to keep the excess at £1,500 and therefore 
didnt agree to reduce the excess when the second claim was settled in 2020. AXA said it 
was commonplace in the market for such increases to be applied following claims, and 
especially so where the insurers view the risk as being significantly higher. They said once a 
theft of lead claim has been made, it is probable a further theft will occur while lead remains 
at the property. Due to the risk remaining, they would not consider a reduction or removal of 
the increased excess. Their risk assessment is supported by the fact another claim had 
arisen for theft of lead. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and he didnt think AXA acted unreasonably in 
applying the increased excess. He said: 
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge its customers provided all 
customers in the same situation are treated the same. 
AXA fairly assessed the risk following the claim made in 2011 and applied a higher 
excess for the continuous risk posed which was reasonable. 
T had the discretion to not renew with AXA and to find an alternative insurer. 
T didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said AXA was 
wrong to use its knowledge of a claim from nine years ago when it doesnt apply the same 
standards to a new customer. The fact that the theft happened again was by chance. This is 
why claims history is limited to five years for new business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome T was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
It isnt my role to determine how much excess an insurer should charge their customer; this 
is a commercial decision that our service wouldnt generally interfere with providing it would 
apply to all policyholders in the same circumstances. 
Ts policy schedule contains the following endorsement:
Theft of Lead Co-Insurance
With effect from 01/12/2011 Section 1, Insured Perils 7 and Section 2, Insured Perils
6 of the policy wording are amended to include the first £1500 or 15% whichever is
greater of each and every loss ascertained after the application of in respect of lead
including ingress of water.
T said it was unfair for AXA to hold a previous claim against it for nine years when new 
customers are only required to provide details of claims for up to five years. I agree with the 
investigator that AXA using its knowledge about a claim from nine years ago isnt 
unreasonable if it deems it as a continuous risk, as long as the increase in excess is 
communicated clearly to T, which I believe it was at renewal.
Based on the evidence I have seen I am satisfied that the above endorsement was applied 
to Ts policy since renewal following the claim in 2011. During this time T should have 
reasonably been aware that a higher excess was applicable for any claims involving theft of 
lead. If T wasnt happy that AXA increased the excess on its policy, it had the option to move 
to another insurer.  
I believe AXA acted fairly and in line with the terms by applying the increased excess when 
settling Ts claim. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman