DRN-4104234
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt repair her boiler.
What happened
Mrs R had a HomeCare Four boiler repair policy underwritten by BG. She claimed under the 
policy when her boiler stopped working properly. BG attended the following day and cleared 
the airlock. 
But the heating still wasnt working properly so Mrs R asked BG to attend again.
The second engineer said there was a water circulation issue and noted that thered been 
blockages before. BG recommended a power flush to restore heating and hot water.
Mrs R said she didnt receive a quote from BG for three weeks. She arranged for a third-
party engineer to complete a repair and asked BG to cover the cost. She also complained 
about its delays and failure to complete the repair her own engineer had carried out.
BG agreed that it hadnt provided the standard of service it shouldve done. It removed the 
£60 policy excess charge and offered compensation of £70. But BG said it wasn't 
responsible for payment of the repair cost because if it had completed the repair, it would still 
have been a chargeable job under the policy.
Mrs R didnt think the compensation was enough and she still thought BG should pay for the 
repair because she hadnt needed a power flush. BG increased its compensation offer to 
£150, but maintained that the work would always have been chargeable. So Mrs R brought 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. In summary, he said BG wasnt responsible 
for paying the third-party costs because the repair wasnt covered under the policy. He said 
BG had acknowledged its service shortfall by offering compensation and he thought it was a 
fair amount in the circumstances.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said the compensation BG offered was derisory and it hadnt taken 
into account the delays shed experienced before having her boiler repaired. Mrs R said her 
engineer hadnt completed a power flush so BG should cover the cost of the repair it 
shouldve carried out.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I wont repeat the detail of the 
complaint again here. Instead, Ill give the reasons for my decision and comment on the 
evidence where I think it helps explain my reasons.
The HomeCare Four policy doesnt provide cover for a power flush which is needed to clear 
sludge from the system. This is explained on page 30 of the policy booklet. On page 31, BG 
confirms that if it has said work is needed, it may not complete further repairs until the work 
is carried out.
BGs job notes show it diagnosed blockages in the system some years earlier. The notes 
dont clearly show whether Mrs R was advised to have a power flush before this boiler 
breakdown.
Mrs R said BG delayed sending her a quote for the power flush, so she made her own 
arrangements for repair. BG recommended the power flush on 2 October which was four 
days after the first visit. Mrs Rs third-party estimate was dated 4 October. In her complaint 
letter dated 19 October, Mrs R confirmed the work had already been done.
 
Based on the timeline, I cant reasonably conclude that BG caused significant delay by not 
sending a quote sooner. Thats because Mrs R arranged to have the work done by a third 
party in a matter of a few days. So, more likely than not, BGs delay wouldnt have caused 
any detriment beyond disappointment at its service standard.
Because Mrs R had the work done by a third-party, which she says wasn't a power flush, 
she thinks BG should pay the cost. The description of the work done by the third-party 
includes: fill heating system and treat with power flush chemicals.
Based on the engineers description, I think its fair to conclude that they completed a power 
flush or similar.
As the policy doesnt provide cover for a power flush, Mrs R would always have needed to 
pay for the work whether or not it was done by BG. Therefore, I see no reason to ask BG to 
pay. 
BG offered £150 compensation for service shortfalls. Its notes show that it sent a power 
flush quote on the day of the second visit. However, I have no reason to doubt that Mrs R 
didnt receive it. So, I accept that there was a service shortfall in respect of the quote. I also 
accept that BG couldve done more on its first visit, which caused a delay of around three or 
four days. BG removed the £60 policy excess for the callout, which means the overall value 
of its offer in recognition of the service shortfalls is £210. I wouldnt have required BG to pay 
compensation of this amount based on the evidence Ive seen. Therefore, I see no reason to 
ask BG to pay any more than its most recent offer of £150.
In summary, Im satisfied that BGs compensation payment addresses the shortfalls 
identified, and theres no requirement under the policy for it to pay for the power flush. 
Therefore, Im not asking BG to do any more in respect of Mrs Rs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint and 
Im not asking British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman