DRN-3449386
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service he received from Sainsburys Bank Plc following his 
exceeding the credit limit on his account.
What happened
Mr A had a Sainsburys credit account with a £12,000 credit limit. The account also had a 
promotional offer of 0% interest on purchases and balance transfers that was scheduled to 
be in place until October 2021.
In May 2021, Mr A made a purchase on the account that took him over the agreed credit 
limit. This resulted in Sainsburys terminating the promotional 0% interest rate and applying 
an interest rate of 29.9% to the account. Sainsburys also charged an overlimit fee of £12 to 
the account. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mr As complaint. They felt theyd administered the account in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account and the terms of the 0% interest rate promotional 
offer, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Sainsburys had 
acted unfairly towards Mr A in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold this complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that the interest rate on the account was 29.9% and that the 
account had a promotional 0% interest rate offer. Its also clear that the terms of the account 
include that if the balance of the account exceeded the agreed credit limit that the 
promotional offer would be voided and the account interest rate of 29.9% would then apply. 
We may apply the standard interest rate to transactions you make before the end of 
the special promotion period if in any month you do not make at least your minimum 
payment by the payment date or if you exceed your credit limit at any time.
In this instance, Mr A did make transactions that took the balance of the account over the 
agreed credit limit, and so it seems fair and reasonable to me that Sainsburys would void 
the promotional interest rate offer, as per the stated terms, and would apply the account 
interest rate of 29.9% from that time. And I also feel that the £12 overlimit fee was also 
applied fairly and reasonably and as per the account terms by Sainsburys.
Im aware that Mr A feels that Sainsburys should have done more to inform him that he was 
in danger of exceeding the credit limit on the account. But Sainsburys provided Mr A with 
monthly account statements as well as access to the balance of his account via online 
channels, and its notable that Sainsburys also messaged Mr A to inform him when the 
balance of his account had exceeded 80% of the credit limit so that Mr A might be aware to 
monitor the balance of the account more closely. And in consideration of these points, Im 
satisfied that Sainsburys did provide Mr A with sufficient access and ongoing periodic 
information for Mr A to have adequately monitored the ongoing balance of the account.
Ultimately, as the account holder, I feel it was incumbent on Mr A to have monitored and 
managed the account so as to not exceed the agreed credit limit, if he wanted the 
promotional interest rate offer to remain in place. And I dont feel that Sainsburys acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by removing that offer when Mr A took the balance of the account 
above the agreed credit limit and therefore in breach of the terms of the promotional offer.
I also note that the May 2021 account statement, which was the next statement following the 
credit limit being exceeded, clearly explained that the balance of the account had exceeded 
the credit limit and that any promotional interest rate offers that had been in place had been 
withdrawn.
Mr A has also stated that Sainsburys have an obligation to give him notice of any planned 
interest rate changes on the account. But Sainsburys didnt change the interest rate on the 
account  it had always been 29.9%. What happened was that Sainsburys removed a 
promotional interest rate offer on the account because Mr A used the account in such a way 
that voided that offer, as explained above.
For a similar reason, I also dont share Mr As position that Sainsburys have charged him 
disproportionately for the relatively small amount by which he exceeded the credit limit on his 
account. Sainsburys have only charged a £12 overlimit fee as per the terms of the account. 
And while Mr A may consider the interest hes incurred as being a charge, it isnt, but instead 
is what Im satisfied is the reasonable application of the standard account interest rate of 
29.9% following the fair withdrawal of the promotional interest offer that had been in place.
All of which means that I dont feel that Sainsburys have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here, but rather Im satisfied that Sainsburys acted within the terms of the account and the 
terms of the promotional interest rate offer that had been in place. And it follows from this 
that my final decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Sainsburys to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman