DRN-3025112
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, sold a debt to a debt 
purchasing company which he feels they should have written off.
What happened
Mr W opened a student account with Halifax in 2008. The account became overdrawn and 
was defaulted by Halifax in April 2015. 
In 2020, Mr W raised a complaint with Halifax because hed been contacted by a debt 
purchasing company about this debt. Mr W felt that he hadnt been contacted about this 
account since 2010 and that as such Halifax should have written the debt off rather than sold 
it on. 
Halifax looked at Mr Ws complaint, but they noted that the account had been in use 
throughout 2014 and had been defaulted in 2015. Because of this, Halifax felt that they 
hadnt done anything wrong in selling on this debt, and they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong in selling on the debt, so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W believes that this debt may be unenforceable because he hadnt had any contact 
about the debt since 2010, and that because of this Halifax should have written off the debt 
and have acted unfairly by selling the debt to a debt purchasing company they did.
It can be the case that some debts can become unenforceable if the account holder hasnt 
taken any action towards the debt in over six years. However, its evident from the account 
information provided to me that Mr W was using the account in 2014 and that the account 
then subsequently defaulted in 2015. Its also evident that Mr W was making payments 
towards the defaulted account until 2017, as demonstrated by the account statements.
As such, Im satisfied that Mr W has taken action toward this debt up until at least 2017, and 
this means Im satisfied that Halifax werent acting unfairly  and were acting within their 
rights  when they sold the debt to the debt purchasing company that subsequently 
contacted Mr W.
It also must be noted that Halifax have been able to demonstrate that Mr W elected for 
paperless statements on this account, meaning that correspondence would, for the most 
part, be sent electronically. As such, it was Mr Ws responsibility to monitor the 
correspondence issued by Halifax on this account, and this means that Im satisfied that Mr 
W not receiving paper statements or other paper correspondence has no bearing on the 
fairness of Halifax selling the debt to the debt purchasing company as explained above.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Halifax have acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Halifax to take any further action. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W wanted, but I trust that he will understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman