DRN-3715716
The complaint
Mr H and Miss P complain that Target Servicing Limited (Target) wouldnt allow them to 
redeem their help to buy shared equity loan, which caused them delays. 
What happened
Mr H and Miss P bought a flat in August 2016 with the assistance of the help to buy scheme.
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr H and Miss Ps property is in England, and they took the loan out with Homes 
England, which was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an 
executive agency and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for 
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property 
purchase price to the borrower to enable them to buy a home.
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
What the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of the property at 
the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So depending on how 
property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to pay back more or 
less than the amount they originally borrowed. 
A help to buy shared equity loan is not a financial product regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And Homes England is not a regulated firm within the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Formally, this type of lending is known as a shared 
equity loan, though theyre commonly referred to as help to buy loans. A help to buy loan is 
simply a shared equity loan offered through the help to buy scheme. 
Homes England has appointed Target to administer help to buy loans on their behalf. Target 
is a regulated firm within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service and is 
therefore the respondent to this complaint. 
In May 2020, Mr H and Miss P contacted Target to find out what steps they needed to take 
so that they could redeem their help to buy loan. They said that Target told them they would 
need to instruct a surveyor to value their property and they would then need to send this to 
Target. 
Mr H and Miss P instructed a surveyor and the valuation confirmed that there was cladding 
on the building. It said in the absence of the EWS1 (External Wall Fire Review), they could 
only issue a nil valuation for the property.  The valuation report also said that if there were no 
issues regarding the cladding, or if a positive outcome was the conclusion of the EWS1 form, 
then the valuation would be in the region of £400,000. The EWS1 check was rated as B2. 
This means that the property was considered to have potentially risky combustible or other 
fire safety issues needing remedial work. 
Mr H and Miss P submitted this valuation to Target in July 2020. Target said they referred 
this valuation to Homes England. Mr H and Miss P said they called Target on several 
occasions for an update but were told that there wasnt one.
In February 2021, Homes England instructed another surveyor to value Mr H and Miss Ps 
property.  This property was valued at £380,000 and following this, Mr H and Miss P moved 
forward to redeem the help to buy loan which was £76,000. The completion date for 
repayment was 22 September 2021 and Mr H and Miss P said they redeemed the loan by 
using their savings. 
Mr H and Miss P are unhappy with the amount of time it has taken them to redeem their help 
to buy loan  from when they first enquired. They said they wanted to remortgage onto a buy 
to let mortgage and buy another property during the stamp duty free period  but were 
unable to do so because of the delays. 
Target said Mr H and Miss Ps property was affected by cladding so they couldnt provide 
updates.
Mr H and Miss P brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where the 
complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator upheld the complaint 
and thought that Target had caused delays so thought it was unfair for them to charge Mr H 
and Miss P interest on the help to buy loan. So she asked them to refund that along with 
£500 compensation for the upset and inconvenient this caused Mr H and Miss P. She didnt 
however think that there was any loss of the stamp duty holiday, or any other financial loss 
incurred by Mr H and Miss P.
Target disagreed. In summary they argued that while the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint about how Target treated Mr H and Miss P, we do not 
have jurisdiction to consider anything to do with the terms of the shared equity loan itself, 
given that it wasnt a regulated mortgage contract or a regulated mortgage agreement, given 
that Target is not the lender. 
Target also said the delays in which Mr H and Miss P experienced were the result of Homes 
England and not down to the administration of the account by Target.
Target asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I will 
address the jurisdiction concerns that Target have raised. 
Target disagrees the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction to consider Mr H and Miss 
Ps complaint. Ill explain why I think that the Financial Ombudsman Service does have 
jurisdiction to consider Mr H and Miss Ps complaint. Then I will set out what I think Target 
needs to do in order to put things right for them.
Timeline of events
In May 2020, Mr H and Miss P enquired about redeeming their help to buy loan. The 
customer information pack which explains the process shows that Target is responsible for 
operating this process. The pack states that it requires borrowers to obtain a valuation and 
send the report to Target. It also confirms that the borrower should send a Loan Redemption 
Form to Target and make a payment to their bank account.
The information pack also confirms that borrowers should appoint their own surveyor as long 
as they are a qualified member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).  The pack states Target reserves the right to agree specific appointments in certain cases, for 
example, where the building is affected by cladding  as it is here  but subject to that, 
Target are happy to accept the borrowers choice of surveyor. In this case, Target did not 
exercise that right, but told Mr H and Miss P to appoint a surveyor of their own choice. 
Mr H and Miss P made enquires to redeem their help to buy loan in May 2020 and in July 
2020, they sent the valuation report to Target for them to consider. After months of chasing 
Target, the only response they got from Target was that there wasnt any further update  
until they were told that Homes England had to instruct another surveyor  which was done 
in February 2021.
My jurisdiction to consider this complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction is set out in our rules (including the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints chapter (DISP) of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
handbook and in legislation (including the Financial Services and Market Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). DISP says that we can consider a complaint 
where (among other things) both the firm and the activity complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. 
The Ombudsman can consider a compliant under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) Regulated activities or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the 
firm in connection with them.
A firm includes an entity that is authorised and regulated by the FCA. Homes England is 
not authorised and regulated by the FCA and so we cannot consider a complaint against 
Homes England about anything it may or may not have done. However, Target is authorised 
and regulated by the FCA and so is a firm for the purposes of DISP 2.3.1R.
DISP 2.3.1R(1) says we can consider a complaint against Target if it relates to an act or 
omission by it in carrying on a regulated activity (or ancillary activities, including advice, in 
connection with a regulated activity). In turn, the definition of regulated activities refers in 
the main, to the list of activities set out in the RAO. 
Target doesnt dispute that they are carrying on (and authorised by the FCA to carry on) two 
regulated activities in relation to Mr H and Miss P: the activities of debt administration (Article 
39G) and debt collection (Article 39F).
So far as is relevant for present purposes, Article 39G(1) of the RAO defines debt 
administration as:
taking steps
(a) To perform duties under a credit agreementon behalf of the lender, or 
(b) To exercise or enforce rights under such an agreement on behalf of the 
lender
So far as is relevant for the present purposes, Article 39F(1) of the RAO defines debt 
collection as:
taking steps to procure the payment of debt due under a credit agreement
For the purposes of both Articles 39F and 39G and in the context of this complaint, (see 
Article 3 of the RAO) a credit agreement has the meaning given in Article 60B of the RAO. 
Article 60B(3) says that a credit agreement means:
an agreement between an individual or relevant recipient of credit (A) and any other 
person (B) under which B provides A with credit of any amount.
In this case, its not in dispute that the shared equity loan is a credit agreement for the 
purposes of Articles 39F and 39G of the RAO. In response to the investigators view, Target argued that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
doesnt have the jurisdiction to consider anything to do with the terms and conditions of (or 
processes relating to) Mr H and Miss Ps help to buy loan because the loan is not 
regulated. What I understand Target to mean by this is that our jurisdiction is limited by the 
fact that this loan is not a regulated credit agreement or regulated mortgage contract as 
defined in Articles 60B and 61(3) of the RAO respectively. 
I dont think this makes any difference to my jurisdiction. The definition I have quoted above 
refers to a credit agreement not a regulated credit agreement. It doesnt matter that this is 
not a regulated credit agreement, since the definitions of the activities of debt administration 
and debt collection are not limited to regulated credit agreements; they cover all credit 
agreements. 
That means the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint about Target about 
their acts or omissions  what they did but also what they failed to do  in carrying on the 
regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection relating to the shared equity 
loan that Mr H and Miss P took out. In other words, we can consider not just the steps that 
Target took but also consider whether they should have taken steps but omitted to do so. 
And in considering that, I can have regard to all circumstances of this complaint  including 
the terms and conditions of the loan.
Now Ive set out the extent of my jurisdiction on this complaint, Ill go on to consider what 
happened and what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H and Miss P wanted to redeem their loan. Ill start by setting out some of the context in 
which this complaint arises, as well as what the valuation obtained by Mr H and Miss P said. 
Ill then move on to considering the contractual redemption process as well as considering 
the terms and conditions and whether Target failed to do what they should have done. 
Mr H and Miss P obtained a valuation in July 2020. The surveyor noted that cladding was 
present on their property. 
Following the Grenfell Tower tragedy in 2017, there was an increased awareness and risks 
caused by certain types of building construction, including potentially combustible composite 
cladding, particularly on blocks of flats. 
Uncertainties around whether individual buildings either have cladding, or whether  if they 
do  the cladding is a fire safety risk. Or whether there are other non-cladding fire risks 
present, also have a significant impact on both sales and mortgage lending markets in the 
years since the Grenfell fire. Identification of risks on affected buildings, and the 
responsibility for carrying out, and paying for, any necessary remediation continue to be 
matters of public concern and controversy. 
Im aware from this complaint and other complaints, that presence or potential presence of 
unremedied combustible cladding and other fire safety concerns can cause difficulty in 
valuing affected properties. 
Target has provided us with a letter which they sent to Mr H and Miss P dated 4 June 2021 
which stated that Mr H and Miss P failed to follow the redemption process because their 
property had cladding. And in these circumstances, the valuer had to be agreed between Mr 
H and Miss P and Homes England. Target said Mr H and Miss P didnt get their surveyor 
agreed which is what caused the delay. The letter also explained that Homes England 
couldnt accept a nil valuation and the help to buy loan required a valuation based on the 
price the property would fetch on the open market if there was a sale by a willing purchaser.
The customer information pack which was sent to Mr H and Miss P set out the process that 
they needed to follow to redeem the help to buy loan. The first step was to arrange a 
valuation. The information pack said that in order to produce a redemption quote, Target will 
need a valuation of the property that has been conducted by a RICS surveyor (The Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors).The pack also said that if the property was affected by novel issues in relation to the 
valuation (such as cladding), Target reserved the right, in accordance with the terms of the 
equity loan, to agree the RICS surveyor that Mr H and Miss P wanted to use before they 
were instructed. 
Ive listened to various calls that Mr H and Miss P had with Target, and I havent heard at 
any point, them being told that they needed to get the surveyor approved before they were 
instructed. Target simply told Mr H and Miss P that they needed to get their own valuation 
and then send it to Target. I think its unfair for Target to say that this is the reason for the 
delays. 
The loan agreement says a valuer has to be agreed between the parties and the information 
pack say that Target reserves the right to require a valuer to be agreed in cases involving 
cladding. But in this case, Im satisfied Target did not exercise that right. It simply told Mr H 
and Miss P to appoint a valuer of their own choice. And in doing so, it agreed to their choice 
 which means the valuer they appointed became the agreed valuer required by the loan 
agreement. 
In any case, Mr H and Miss P submitted their valuation in July 2020, but their valuer wasnt 
able to set a value because of uncertainty around the cladding issue at that time. So while 
the valuer was agreed, there was no valuation that resulted that could be used to set a 
redemption figure.
However, Target didnt communicate any of this to Mr H and Miss P at this time. It wasnt 
until February 2021 that Homes England instructed a further surveyor. I dont think it was fair 
that Target didnt keep them updated during this time. Although I dont think its fair to say 
that Mr H and Miss P failed to follow the proper process  Im satisfied they did  in any case 
thats academic because their valuer didnt provide a valuation that could be used to redeem 
their loan.
The valuer did say that if the cladding was remediated, the property would be worth in the 
region of £400,000 but the redemption would be based on the current value of the property 
and not what it would be worth in the future. 
Because of this, I dont think the redemption couldve gone ahead on the valuation that Mr H 
and Miss P obtained because it didnt give a current valuation of the property. In that 
situation, I think it was right for Target to propose an alternative specialist surveyor. And 
thats in fact what happened, in February 2021. However, I dont think it should have taken 
them months to do this. 
The valuation that was carried out in February 2021 gave a valuation figure of £380,000. 
This was a firm value which could be used for redemption. And it was less than the £400,000 
estimate which the earlier valuer had said the property might be worth once the cladding was 
resolved, so I dont think there has been any financial loss to Mr H and Miss P as they 
redeemed their help to buy loan on the lower valuation. However, the delays that Mr H and 
Miss P experienced have caused them some stress and inconvenience.
Mr H and Miss P have told us that it was their intention to try and rent their property out so 
that they could buy a new property. They wanted to do this to try and save money during the 
stamp duty holiday window. They said they knew they wouldnt be able to sell the property 
due to the cladding issues, so renting it out as their only option. 
Mr H and Miss P said they had spoken to a broker who told them that because they already 
had a mortgage on the property, it was likely they wouldnt have an issue converting their 
current mortgage to a buy to let one. Mr H and Miss P confirmed however that they didnt 
end up making an application to do this and they said that if their lender declined it, they 
would have looked at obtaining consent to let the property out until the remedial works had 
been completed on the property. However, I dont agree about that  I think they would have 
found it difficult to take a new mortgage until the remediation works had been carried out. I understand that Mr H and Miss P are frustrated that the delays they encountered have 
meant they couldnt buy another property so in turn, have missed out on the stamp duty 
holiday window. But I think its not that straightforward to be able to say that but for the 
delays caused by Target in allowing them to redeem, an application for a new property 
would have definitely gone through.
I accept Mr H and Miss P already had a mortgage on their property and they could have 
transferred this to a buy to let mortgage, but its likely that their lender wouldve needed a 
new valuation to be carried out which would have brought the cladding issues to light. From 
my experience in dealing with complaints around cladding, I think its likely that an 
application for a buy to let mortgage would not have been successful. This is because of the 
cladding issues that the property had, which means a buy to let lender might find the same 
problems in valuing the property  and would be likely to think that it wasnt suitable security. 
In my experience its very difficult to obtain a new mortgage for a B2 property. Mr H and Miss 
P didnt discuss consent to let with their existing mortgage lender either so its difficult to say 
whether this would have been agreed. As remedial work needed to start on the property, its 
also possible it might have been difficult to find a tenant depending on how disruptive the 
works were likely to be. Mr H and Miss P told us that they did look at some other properties 
but none where formal mortgage offers were made. There is never any guarantee that Mr H 
and Miss P would have found a suitable property to purchase and complete within the stamp 
duty holiday window even if  as I think unlikely  they were able to raise the funds to do so 
by re-mortgaging their existing property. There are also a number of outside factors that 
could cause an application to be delayed such as valuation issues, title issues etc, which 
would make it extremely difficult to suggest that Mr H and Miss P wouldve found a property 
and completed within the necessary timeframe to save on stamp duty. So I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Target to make any payment with regard to this. 
I think that when Mr H and Miss P first sent their valuation to Target, it should have identified 
the problem with it and proposed a new valuation. I dont think its fair that it waited eight 
months before doing so. And once that second valuation did take place, Mr H and Miss P 
should have been able to redeem their loan based on that valuation at the time  but there 
was a further long delay before they were able to do so. I dont think that delay was fair. Ive 
noted that Target says that this was not its responsibility, it was caused by the lender. But 
Im satisfied that as the regulated entity here Target has obligations independent of the 
lender. In carrying out the regulated activity of debt administration, Target is required to 
perform the lenders duties and obligations. And they have to act fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances. 
Following the first valuation, Target should have been more pro-active in resolving the 
situation. And once the second valuation had been carried out, it should have ensured Mr H 
and Miss P were able to redeem their loan promptly based on that valuation. It failed to do 
that and I dont think that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Its evident in this situation Target did cause delays and should have allowed Mr H and Miss 
P to redeem much sooner than they did. So I think its unfair that Mr H and Miss P ended up 
paying interest on their help to buy loan because of the delay  I therefore think that Target 
should refund the interest payments to Mr H and Miss P. Had the redemption gone through 
in good time, it would have happened before interest began to be applied to their loan.
This process has been very drawn out and lengthy for Mr H and Miss P. Its clear from the 
telephone calls that I have listened to, how frustrated Mr H and Miss P were. They called on 
numerous occasions to try and find out what was going on and it took several months for 
them to be able to get to a place where they were able to redeem their help to buy loan. This 
has caused them a great deal of stress and inconvenience so I also think that Target should 
pay them £500 in recognition of this. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Refund all interest applied to the loan that Mr H and Miss P have paid to the date 
they redeemed the loan. Target should add 8% simple annual interest on each 
payment to be refunded running from the date they made each payment up until the 
date of the refund
Pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H and
Miss P
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman