DRN-3897782
The complaint
Mrs L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined her claim against her private medical 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs L has private medical insurance with BUPA. Mrs Ls 
daughter, who Ill refer to as L, is one of the beneficiaries of the policy. 
In May 2021, Mrs L contacted BUPA about a claim in relation to otoplasty for L, thats 
surgery to change the shape, position or size of the ears. BUPA declined the claim. It 
said that the surgery is cosmetic and therefore excluded in the policy. Mrs L didnt think 
that was fair.
L had the surgery in March 2022. Mrs L pursued her complaint. 
Mrs L says that its misleading and belittling for BUPA to classify otoplasty as cosmetic 
and has provided references for a study which shows the benefit of this procedure. She 
says that the primary purpose of health insurance is to improve the health related quality 
of life and BUPA has failed in that by failing to cover this procedure. Mrs L says that its 
irresponsible and profligate for BUPA to cover any mental health issues that may arise 
as a result of protruding ears, rather than cover a claim to correct the underlying cause. 
Mrs L wants BUPA to reimburse the cost of Ls surgery and not to categorise otoplasty 
as cosmetic and therefore excluded under the policy.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that the policys definition of 
treatment doesnt cover cosmetic surgery. She said that BUPA is only required to cover 
treatment covered by the policy.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She asked that an ombudsman consider her 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no powers to direct BUPA generally about how it conducts its business. So, I cant 
direct it in relation to the classification of surgical procedures. But I can look at what 
happened in relation to Mrs Ls claim and consider whether BUPA acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Treatment  surgical or medical services [] that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a 
disease, illness or injury.
What is not covered
[]
Exclusion 10 Cosmetic, reconstructive or weight loss treatment
We do not pay for treatment to change your appearance, such as a remodelled nose or 
facelift whether or not it is needed for medical or psychological reasons.
[]
We do not pay for any treatment, including surgery:
which is for or involves the removal of healthy tissue (ie tissue which is not diseased) 
[]
whether or not the treatment is needed for medical or psychological reasons. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs Ls broad definition of the purpose of health 
insurance. Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or 
situation. An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in 
the terms and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to 
show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If 
the event is covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out 
in the policy the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mrs Ls policy covers treatment which is defined as surgical or medical services 
needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury. My understanding 
is that Ls surgery wasnt to relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury but was to 
improve her appearance. So, its not treatment, as defined by the policy.
In any event, the policy excludes cosmetic treatment. Ive set out above parts of the 
relevant exclusion. I dont think that BUPA was at fault in concluding that Ls 
surgery was cosmetic, as it was for the purpose of changing her appearance. So, I 
think that BUPA is entitled to rely on that exclusion and didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so.   
Mrs L says that its irresponsible and profligate for BUPA to cover any mental 
health issues that may arise as a result of protruding ears rather than cover a claim 
to correct the underlying cause. But BUPA is entitled to decide what it wishes to 
cover. Im looking at the claim Mrs L actually made, not a claim she might have 
made if L hadnt had the surgery. 
I quite understand Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this matter but, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think there are any grounds on which I can fairly direct BUPA 
to reimburse the costs of Ls surgery. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman