DRN-1979002
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Europa Group Limited trading as Ingenie Services has unfairly 
cancelled his insurance policy. 
For ease Ill refer to Ingenie throughout. 
What happened
When Mr Ns insurance came up for renewal he decided to go with a different provider and 
took out insurance through Ingenie. He was sent welcome information on 3 June 2019 which 
explained he needed to send his no claims bonus information and arrange for a black box to 
be fitted. 
Mr N tried sending his no claims bonus information by email but received a bounce-back. So 
he called Ingenie who gave him the email address to use. He sent off the requested 
information and as there was no bounce-back assumed it had been received. He then 
arranged for the black box to be fitted. 
 
On 18 June 2019, Ingenie wrote to Mr N as it still hadnt received his no claims information. 
As it received no reply, it wrote again on 26 June 2019 explaining the policy would be 
cancelled on 3 July. And on 5 July 2019 it wrote explaining the policy had been cancelled. 
Mr N complained as he said he sent his correspondence to the address provided. Ingenie 
upheld the complaint in part. It agreed it had the wrong correspondence address on its 
website and so waived the cancellation charge of £35. However, as it had provided the 
correct address in the welcome information, during the call on 5 June and in the letter of 18 
June it was satisfied Mr N had been provided with the correct information. As Mr N hadnt 
sent the information to the correct address, the cancellation of the policy stood.
 
Our investigator concluded Ingenie hadnt done anything wrong; it had provided the correct 
contact address, but Mr N hadnt used it. Mr N has asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said he didnt believe he was provided with the correct address during the 
call and says he didnt receive an email of 18 June 2019. He would like proof of the call and 
where the email was sent to. 
The investigator provided him with a copy of the call recording which showed he had been 
given the correct address. Mr N still wishes for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman 
as he says he was clearly having problems sending the email and when speaking with the 
agent, he was focused on the email text and confirmed the last part from the website. He 
also still wants proof of the email sent on 18 June 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both Mr N and Ingenie that although I have summarised the 
evidence and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided. I do 
understand Mr N feels unfairly treated, but I can only uphold his complaint if I find that 
Ingenie has done something wrong. 
Ingenie sent Mr N welcome information on 3 June 2019. It gave Mr N the correct email 
address of service@ingenie-insurance.co.uk by which to send his no claims proof. When   
Mr N tried to send his information, he received a bounce-back  this was because he had 
sent it to a different .com address. 
I have listened to the call he had with Ingenie on 5 June 2019 and he was given the correct 
email address by the call handler a number of times. It doesnt seem Mr N was listening fully 
or noted it down, as he confirmed that was the address he had tried, but it wasnt  the 
evidence provided showed he had tried a different .com address. And after the call, he again 
used an incorrect, albeit different, email address. I appreciate Mr N says he confirmed the 
last part from the website, but I cant ignore that he was given the correct information during 
that call. I dont find I can fairly hold Ingenie responsible if Mr N chose not to follow the 
instruction given. 
 
Mr N was sent a warning on 18 June 2019 that his no claims information was still 
outstanding and that if it wasnt provided within seven days the cancellation process would 
begin. This is allowed for in the policy terms. This letter again provided the correct email 
address for the no claims information to be sent to. Although Mr N doubts this letter was 
sent, I am satisfied it was; Ingenie has provided a screen shot showing it was sent to his 
email address. I therefore find it was most likely correctly delivered to him.  
Mr N was also sent another email on 26 June confirming the policy was going to be 
cancelled. Again this contained the correct email address. Mr N has said this was sitting in 
his junk folder and he hadnt had an opportunity that week to check through his emails. 
Whilst that may be the case, Ingenie had still sent the notification in advance of the policy 
being cancelled. 
I acknowledge the website had the incorrect email address. I understand Ingenie has 
refunded the cancellation fee because of that incorrect information. But I dont think it would 
be fair to ignore that Mr N was provided with the correct email address in the welcome pack, 
during the call and in the follow up correspondence of 18 and 26 June 2019. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Ingenie provided a number of opportunities for Mr N to provide the information 
and warned of the impending cancellation. I dont find it has done anything wrong and so I 
make no award of compensation or ask it to take any further action.   
I understand Ingenie has already refunded the cancellation fee. But if it hasnt and Mr N 
wishes to accept that, he will need to let Ingenie know. Finally, I note that Mr N wishes to 
have the black box removed. From the information Mr N has given us, it appears Ingenie is 
willing to arrange that, but it will come at a cost. As I dont find Ingenie has done anything 
wrong, that is matter Mr N will need to arrange directly with it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman