DRN-3161083
The complaint
Mrs S says Evergreen Finance London limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat provided to Mrs S in May 2021. The 
loan details were:
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed and 
so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Mrs S said her credit file would have 
shown her poor financial position and undisclosed credit obligations when she applied for 
her loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 21/05/2021 open 6 £800.00 £217.28There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint.
Moneyboat asked Mrs S for details of her income and outgoings and it carried out a credit 
check. Mrs S said her monthly income was £2,200. She said her monthly outgoings were 
£1,250. 
I cant see that the credit check Moneyboat carried out found anything untoward that should 
have prompted further checks. No defaults were shown in the past three years and there 
were no signs that Mrs S was having problems managing her money. From these checks, 
Mrs S looked to have sufficient disposable income to sustainably repay her loan. 
I accept that Mrs Ss actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Moneyboat obtained. And Mrs Ss actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Moneyboat could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mrs S, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mrs S. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Moneyboat needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Moneyboat carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mrs Ss actual 
financial position. 
Moneyboat relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Mrs Ss declared income and Mrs S only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman