DRN-2958560
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (hereafter UKI) handled his travel 
insurance claim.
References to UKI include its agents/those acting on its behalf.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint so I will only provide a brief 
summary of what happened below.
Mr D holds a worldwide travel insurance policy. It is provided as a benefit of his packaged 
bank account and is underwritten by UKI. 
Whilst abroad in early 2020, Mr D became unwell. He required hospital treatment and made 
a claim for his medical costs, but throughout the consideration of his claim Mr D raised a 
number of concerns about the way UKI was handling matters. 
For example, Mr D said UKI didnt have proper processes in place, he was prevented from 
providing some information by email, and there were numerous problems with the forms UKI 
had asked to be completed. Mr D also said UKI hadnt provided suitable guidance or kept 
him updated on progress, and hed continually needed to repeat information and or points 
hed already made.
UKI addressed Mr Ds concerns by way of individual complaints. It didnt uphold them all, but 
it did agree that it could have provided a better level of service at times and collectively it 
awarded a total of £255 in compensation to reflect any trouble and upset caused. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at what had 
happened and explained we couldnt direct a business to change it processes. They said 
UKI was entitled to ask Mr D for evidence to support his claim and had shown some 
flexibility by, for example, allowing him to provide information in an alternative format. Our 
investigator also said that UKI had explained it was only able to offer Mr D access to the 
online portal or an alternative of post, and that many businesses had found themselves 
unable to offer every service that they might normally have done given the difficulties faced 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
However, our investigator said that at times UKI could have done more to keep Mr D 
updated and reassured of the support it was able to provide. And while they agreed 
compensation was warranted, they said the £255 already awarded was a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact of its actions on Mr D and so did not recommend his 
complaint be upheld.
Mr D disagreed with those findings at length. In summary he reiterated his concerns, said 
UKI hadnt shown any flexibility or acted in good faith, and said it should not have fallen to 
him to resolve the problems he encountered. 
As no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr D for taking the time to set out his position at such length, its clear he 
feels very strongly about what has happened. My findings will only focus on those matters I 
consider central to the outcome of this complaint. They will not address every single point or 
argument raised, and while I acknowledge Mr D has raised a number of legal arguments, I 
note hes already been made aware that the role of this service is not to provide a legal 
opinion on matters. 
Our investigator has drawn both sides attention to the relevant rules and regulations, so I 
will not recite these again here. For the reasons Ill now explain, I will not be upholding this 
complaint.
Mr D has many concerns about UKIs processes, for example the forms it required 
completing and the online portal it has in place. Again, I wont address every single 
argument Mr D has raised in relation to this, but I can see that when he submitted his claim, 
UKI decided it needed more information about his medical history from his GP. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to ask for additional evidence to support a claim, and the forms 
UKI sent to gather the information it wanted to see encompass part of the process it has in 
place for validating claims. Its evident that Mr D disagrees with some of the information 
requested by those forms, and his annotated notes further highlight this, but I dont think it 
was unreasonable of UKI to have asked for additional information to help it assess maters. 
I do appreciate that Mr D says it was only after much instance and effort on his part that UKI 
accepted receipt of the information itd requested in a different format. But like our 
investigator highlighted, UKI wasnt required to do this. The terms of Mr Ds policy set out 
that he was expected to provide UKI with the information it considered was needed to 
assess his claim, and I cant fairly conclude that UKI acted unreasonably here.
I can see that Mr D found UKIs online portal difficult to successfully navigate and had 
wanted a direct email address to use instead. But I understand UKI had advised that a direct 
email wasnt something it could offer and set out that Mr D could send information in by post 
if hed wanted to as an alternative. I appreciate why Mr D feels post was not a suitable 
alternative for him and he would have much preferred a direct email address. But given he 
was struggling to use the portal and a direct email wasnt an option, I think it was right of UKI 
to explain what else he might be able to use. 
Again, while I recognise just how strongly Mr D continues to feel about matters, I am not 
persuaded that I can fairly agree with all of the concerns he has raised. Having said that 
however, both sides are aware that UKI has already accepted it didnt always provide the 
level of service it should have done at times and I too agree there were times where it could 
have done more. 
For example, I think UKI could have done more to keep Mr D updated with the progress of 
his claim, something that was clearly important to him. I think it could have tried to do more 
to avoid Mr D having to repeat himself, something which was an ongoing frustration for Mr D. 
And I think it could have tried to communicate with him more clearly too. This evidently had 
an impact on Mr D and I too think compensation is warranted to reflect that. 
UKI has already awarded a total of £255 compensation. I think it relevant to set out that 
compensation is not intended to be a punitive measure. It is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesses actions have had on someone, and like 
the investigator before me I think the amount already awarded by UKI represents a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact of its actions on Mr D. So, although I realise Mr D may 
be further disappointed by this, I will not be directing UKI to increase this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman