DRN-3915362
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund over £4,300 he lost to 
a cryptocurrency investment scam in November 2021.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments he made to his Moonpay 
wallet using his Monzo debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the first three payments made by Mr C, I dont think these were enough 
in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Monzo, as they were of a relatively 
low value. However, it isnt in dispute that the fourth payment Mr C tried to make on 30 
November 2021 was unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems 
and was automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question 
of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its interventions.
Having considered the extent of Monzos intervention, Im not persuaded it asked 
enough relevant and probing questions to determine whether or not Mr C was at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. However, even if Monzo had intervened earlier or asked further 
questions, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped him from proceeding or 
ultimately prevented his loss. 
Mr C believed the investment had been recommended to him by a close friend, whom he 
said was making good profits, and whom he had no reason to doubt. So, it wasnt like 
the typical scam scenario where someone had been approached out of the blue by a 
someone they didnt know or trust offering an investment opportunity. He has also 
confirmed that he had already carried out some research into the broker (ProCyon 
Trade) to satisfy himself that it was genuine, and that he also had full control of his 
Moonpay account. So, it doesnt seem likely that any further checks or research Monzo 
couldve asked him to carry out would have resulted in him discovering it was a scam. 
So, even if Monzo had intervened earlier and provided Mr C with a scam warning/told 
him to carry out further checks, Im not persuaded this would have stopped him from 
making the payment. Mr C has said himself that he had no reason to doubt the friend 
who he thought had recommended the investment, and that he had carried out due 
diligence on the merchant. Therefore, I dont think Monzos failure to ask sufficient 
questions can be considered the proximate cause of Mr Cs loss in these circumstances, 
as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the payment irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Monzo liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman