DRN-1550954
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account called a Silver Added 
Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
 
What happened
Mrs S took out a SAVA in May 2012 which incurred a monthly fee of £9.95. 
Mrs S says she was pressurised into taking out the SAVA and she could not understand 
English well at the time.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and decided that Lloyds didnt mis-sell the 
SAVA. Mrs S disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ss complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether or not Mrs S was aware the SAVA was optional and 
whether she was given a clear choice in out taking the account.
Mrs S says she feels she was pressurised into taking out the SAVA and did not understand 
what was happening as she could not speak English well at the time of the sale. I think its 
more likely than not that her memory is mistaken. I say this because fee free accounts were 
widely advertised and available from Lloyds and other financial institutions. Lloyds has 
provided evidence that she used some of the benefits shortly after taking out the account. 
And Mrs S couldve closed the account at any time but didnt and she still has it. So, I dont 
think I can say its more likely than not that Mrs S had no understanding of what she was 
buying or awareness of alternative fee free accounts as I would have to if I were to uphold 
her complaint on this point. 
So, I think Lloyds discussed with her that the SAVA provided a range of benefits and this 
appealed to her. And I think its more likely than not that Mrs S was aware she had a choice 
and chose to take out the SAVA.
Lloyds advised Mrs S to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds needed to provide Mrs S with 
enough information about the SAVA to make an informed choice. And in recommending the 
SAVA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit 
for Mrs Ss circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including European travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card protection. And it offered a £10 
fee free overdraft buffer on an arranged overdraft facility. 
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mrs S about the SAVA, but I think 
its likely it wouldve given her a lot of detail as it was trying to sell it to her. And I think it 
wouldve been of interest to her in her circumstances. I say this because Mrs S has said she 
travelled in Europe between 1 and 3 times a year at the time; the AA breakdown service 
covered Mrs S whether she was driving a vehicle or simply a passenger; Lloyds has 
provided evidence that she had a mobile phone and registered it for the insurance cover 
shortly after taking out the SAVA; and she couldve benefitted from the sentinel cover and 
the overdraft facility. And there was nothing in her circumstances that would have stopped 
her using any of the benefits.
So, in my view the SAVA was suitable for Mrs S. And there was no information that she 
didnt receive from Lloyds that would likely have put her off taking out the SAVA. So, I dont 
think Mrs S lost out when Lloyds sold her the SAVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman