DRN-3312387
The complaint
Ms U complains about TSB Bank plc and the service she received during, and after, opening 
a credit card account.
What happened
In early November 2020, Ms U applied for a credit card with TSB. This application was 
initially approved, and Ms U made a balance transfer of £4,675.78 into the account.
But at the same time, TSB wrote to Ms U asking her to attend a local branch to provide 
documents that confirm her identity due her application flagging as potentially fraudulent 
activity. Ms U followed this request but says the branch staff refused to take her documents. 
And as these documents werent received by the correct department, Ms Us application was 
withdrawn, and the account was closed.
Ms U wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint. Ms U was unhappy with the tone 
of the letter she received, saying she needed to provide identity documentation. And she 
was unhappy that the branch staff had refused to take her documents, which had led to the 
withdrawal and closure of her account. She was also unhappy shed not received statements 
since the account was closed, meaning she had no evidence of the payments shed made 
being received. So, she wanted the account to be reinstated and to compensated for the 
inconvenience shed been caused.
TSB responded and upheld Ms Us complaint in March 2021. They thought theyd acted 
fairly when flagging Ms Us application and asking her to provide further documentations as 
they had a duty to protect her accounts. But they recognised Ms U had complied with their 
request and their staff had made an error by not accepting her documents in branch. TSB 
explained Ms Us transfer shouldnt have been allowed due to the flag placed on the 
account, so recognise their error. They also explained as the account was closed, no 
statements were sent. But they confirmed payments Ms U made had been credited. 
So, to recognise their errors, TSB paid Ms U £100 for the upset shed been caused plus £12 
for travel expenses. They also re-instated the account and re-applied the promotional rate of 
interest, as well as arrange for Ms Us Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to be 
responded to. Ms Us accept this as resolution to her complaint.
But in May 2021, Ms U missed her minimum monthly payment. So, TSB removed the 
promotional rate of interest. Ms U was unhappy about this, so she raised another complaint.
Ms U didnt think it was fair for TSB to remove this promotional rate, as she believed shed 
missed the payment due to the stress caused by the previous issues and TSBs failure to 
provide her with all of the statements for the account. Ms U thought TSBs service failures, 
and in particular the original flag of her application, were racially motivated due to her last 
name which felt breached the Equality Act 2010. So, she wanted the promotional rate to be 
re-instated to the credit card and to be paid over £1,000 to recognise the continued upset 
shed been caused. 
TSB responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think Ms Us late payment was 
due to an error theyd made. So, they thought theyd acted within the terms of the account 
when removing the promotional rate of interest. And because of this, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Ms U remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They noted Ms U had 
accepted TSBs first offer of compensation for her first set of complaints. And they thought 
this offer was fair. They also didnt think TSB needed to do anything more, as shed seen no 
evidence to show the initial flag on the account was placed due any racially motivated 
factors.
And our investigator thought TSB had made it reasonably clear on the statement when Ms 
Us minimum payment needed to be paid in May 2021. And they thought it was Ms Us 
responsibility to ensure it was met. As Ms U hadnt done so, they thought TSB had acted 
fairly when removing the promotional rate of interest as this fell in line with the terms of the 
account. So, they didnt think TSB needed to do anything more.
Ms U didnt agree. She didnt think our investigator had taken into consideration the impact 
this complaint had on her, and why this impact impaired her ability to meet her minimum 
monthly payment in May 2021. So, she maintained her request for compensation while also 
requesting all interest and charges be refunded to her. As Ms U didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms U. I appreciate Ms U 
followed TSBs instructions to ensure her account was set up without any issues. And its not 
disputed that TSB failed to follow this process correctly. So, I can understand why Ms U 
feels she should be compensated for this. And I can also appreciate why Ms U would query 
TSBs reason for flagging her account and why she feels as though the stress shed been 
caused contributed to her missing a payment.
But for me to say TSB should offer something more than they already have, Id need to be 
satisfied they acted unfairly, without good reason, when applying a flag to Ms Us account in 
the first instance. And Id need to be satisfied the stress this caused prevented Ms U from 
being able to reasonably understand when her minimum payment in May would be due. And 
because of this, TSBs decision to remove the promotional rate of interest was unfair. 
Unfortunately, in this situation I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Our service is unable to determine whether there 
has been a breach of the Equality Act as this is a legal matter that can only be decided 
within the courts. But I can consider the actions of TSB and whether I think these were both 
fair and reasonable.
I am also unable to consider any of Ms Us concerns surrounding her DSAR, or the way TSB 
responded to this. This aspect of Ms Us complaint would need to be directed to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who regulate data protection within the United 
Kingdom.
Im aware TSB have accepted they acted unfairly in their response to Ms Us first complaint 
and the issues she raised within in it. Because of this, I dont intend to discuss these further. 
TSB offered Ms U £112, including travel expenses, as well as the re-instating of her account 
and its promotional rate of interest and from what I understand, Ms U accepted this offer. So, 
Ive thought about this offer was fair to recognise those complaints, and the impact Ms U felt. 
And I think it was.
I think its clear Ms U was inconvenienced by travelling to her nearest branch, only to be 
turned away without her documents being taken. As the documents werent taken, this was a 
wasted journey for Ms U, so Id expect her travel costs to be refunded to her. And they have 
been. And I think its clear its taken Ms U time and effort to make TSB aware of their error, 
which should be compensated for, as well as the upset she wouldve felt when she realised 
she could no longer use her account. TSB have offered Ms U an additional £100 to 
recognise this, and I think this is reasonable as it falls in line with what I wouldve directed 
had it not already been made. On top of this, TSB agreed to re-instate the account and the 
promotional rate of interest, so I dont think Ms U has been impacted financially. So, I think 
TSBs initial offer was a fair one, and they dont need to do anything more in respect of the 
first complaint Ms U raised.
Ive then turned to the second complaint Ms U raised with TSB. Within this, Ms U suggested 
TSBs actions were racially motivated. And Ive thought about this at length, considering both 
Ms U and TSBs testimony and the evidence I have available. And while I understand Ms U 
feels this is the reason as TSB have been unable to provide her with a specific reason as to 
why her account was flagged, Ive seen nothing to persuade me this was the case. 
TSB have explained it is their system that flags applications and accounts as potentially 
fraudulent. And there are several reasons as to why this may have been. But for all these 
reasons, they are put in place to safeguard a customer to ensure an account isnt being 
created fraudulently to ensure their finances and personal information are protected. Ive 
seen nothing that suggests to me TSBs decision was made for any other reason than to 
protect Ms U. And after Ms U had provided her identity documentation, I can see TSB 
ensured the account was reinstated with the originally offered rate of interest. So, Im 
satisfied TSB were acting in good faith and I cant agree that there were any racially 
motivated reasons for flagging Ms Us account.
Ms U also complained about TSBs decision to remove her promotional rate of interest, after 
she missed a minimum payment. And Im aware Ms U doesnt dispute she missed this 
payment. But she thinks this payment was missed due to the difficulties she encountered 
with the application that led to her raising her first complaint. Ive thought about this, but I 
dont agree.
I can see Ms U received April 2021s statement, which makes it reasonably clear a minimum 
payment of just over £35 was due by 21 May 2021. And a payment was made into the 
account until June. At this point, Ms Us first complaint had been responded to, and the 
resolution put forward by TSB accepted. So, from what Ive seen, I cant reasonably say 
there were ongoing issues that prevented Ms U from being able to read and understand her 
statement and make the necessary payment. So, I dont think this missed payment was the 
fault of TSB.
And Ive seen the terms and conditions of Ms Us account, which explain a promotional rate 
will only remain in place until the end of the promotional period if Ms U complied with her 
important obligations to them. And this included meeting the minimum monthly repayment on the account. Ms U did have the opportunity to set up a direct debit to ensure this payment 
was always met as a minimum but took the decision not to do so. While I recognise this is 
her right, and a direct debit isnt compulsory, I think Ms U took on the responsibility of 
ensuring a payment was made each month, within the right time period, and it wasnt TSBs 
to ensure this was done. As Ms U missed this payment, I dont think I can say TSB acted 
unfairly by removing this promotional rate. And so, I dont think TSB need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms U was hoping for. And I recognise Ms U will feel this 
is unfair, as she made more than the minimum monthly payments before the one in May was 
missed. But I can only say this was unfair if TSB were responsible for the missed payment, 
or they acted outside of their terms and conditions when removing the promotion rate of 
interest. And I dont think they have.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Us complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman