DRN-3483001
The complaint
Miss W complains that following an accident Skyfire Insurance Company Limited declined
her claim and avoided her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Miss W was involved in a car accident. She made a claim to Skyfire. When it
inspected the damage, it found her car had a full body vinyl wrap that hadnt been declared
on the policy.
Skyfire says this modification should have been declared. It says its underwriting criteria is
very strict on allowable modifications, which excludes vinyl wraps such as this. Skyfire says
had it known it wouldnt have provided cover for Miss W. Because of this it declined her
claim and avoided the policy.
Miss W thought this was unfair. She says the comparison site she used wasnt clear that a
vinyl wrap constituted a modification. She says she checked her V5 logbook, which stated
the colour change and correct colour. Miss W went back to the comparison site to see what
questions were asked. She says there was no mention of a vinyl wrap in the modifications
list. She didnt agree with Skyfire that this shouldve been recorded under
Paintwork/Stickers.
Miss W referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint.
He thought Miss W should have disclosed the vinyl wrap as a modification to Skyfire. He
thought Skyfire was fair to avoid the policy and refund the premiums as a result of this.
Miss W disagreed. She didnt think it was fair to avoid the policy. She also says the policy
terms refer to cancellation of the policy and not avoidance of it in these circumstances. Miss
W asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire thinks Miss W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
she failed to declare her car had a vinyl wrap. It says she changed her car on the insurance
policy in July 2020 using her online portal. The policy was originally taken out using a
comparison website, but the portal was used for the change in 2020.
Skyfire has provided a copy of the questions Miss W was asked when updating her policy
with her new car on the portal. The questions included:
Has the car had any additional modifications?
The answers available are yes or no. Miss W answered no to the question about
modifications.
Next to the question is an information icon. By hovering the cursor over the icon further
information is provided. This says:
A modification is any alteration made by you, or a previous owner to the original
specification of the car. If you answer yes you will be shown a drop down list of all
modification types. If your car has more than one modification, please add them separately.
The drop-down list of modifications includes, Vinyl Wrap Bodywork.
I have thought about Miss Ws comments that her V5 logbook stated the colour change and
included the correct colour for the car. Also, that she hadnt owned a wrapped car before and
didnt know it was classed as a modification.
Skyfire says Miss W told it she knew her car had a vinyl wrap after it avoided her policy. We
asked for the call recording when this was discussed. Skyfire wasnt able to provide a
recording but did provide a written transcript of the call. During the call its agent asks, Did
you know the car was wrapped?.
Miss W responds, yes I did, it was already wrapped when I bought it. The V5 document
showed it was grey and red so when I did the change of vehicle on [comparison website] it
didnt ask me if the car was modified.
Skyfire has provided its underwriting information that shows what modifications it will accept 
in order to provide cover. This doesnt include a car with a vinyl wrap. Because of this the
business says it wouldnt have offered cover if Miss W had correctly answered this question.
Ive considered the question Miss W was asked when changing her car in July 2020. I think
this was clear, particularly when considering the additional information provided on the
portal. Miss W also admits she knew the car had a vinyl wrap when she bought it. So, I dont
think she took reasonable care when answering this question. If she was unsure whether
this constituted a modification to the cars original specification, she could have reasonably
sought clarification.
Skyfire has provided its underwriting criteria to show it wouldnt have offered Miss W cover
had she provided accurate information about her car. So, Im satisfied that hermisrepresentation was a qualifying one. Skyfire classed the misrepresentation as careless
which I think was reasonable.
As Im satisfied Miss Ws misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the
actions Skyfire can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Skyfire can refund the premium paid where a misrepresentation is careless where no claim
has been made against the policy. Miss W says that she has received a full refund of
premiums. Although in this case I understand she is considered the at fault driver and
Skyfire has dealt with a claim from the third-party. Where a claim has been made under the
policy, an insurer is entitled to keep the premium paid under the contract. This doesnt
prevent Skyfire from choosing to refund premiums, which is what it has done here, but this
isnt a requirement under CIDRA.
The reason why Skyfire dealt with the third-party claims is due to its obligations under the
Road Traffic Act  its purpose being to prevent drivers not at fault for an incident from having
no recourse from uninsured drivers. So Skyfire was obligated to deal with the third-party
claims  them being not at fault for the incident. This also means however, that Skyfire can
look to recover those costs from Miss W, as it had avoided the policy.
I think Skyfire reasonably avoided the policy, so this means it effectively didnt exist and
there was no insurance cover in place for Miss Ws losses from the accident. Skyfire also
explained in the policy its right to recover claim costs from Miss W in these circumstances.
Miss W has raised concerns relating to Skyfires handling of her complaint. Complaint
handling in itself isnt a regulated activity, so although Im sorry to hear that Miss W is
dissatisfied, I cant consider these points.
In summary, although I sympathise that Miss W is faced with paying the cost of the losses
resulting from the accident, I dont think Skyfire treated her unfairly in declining her claim and
avoiding her policy. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. 
Neither party responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman