DRN-4274450
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs S opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in November 2017. Her account limit 
was initially low - £300. Her account limit was increased once, in November 2020, to £1,500.
Mrs S says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her. She says that Studio Retail should 
have consulted her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was 
affordable for her. While Mrs Ss complaint is specifically in relation to the credit limit 
increase, we have looked at the entire lending. 
 
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs S  and when it 
increased her credit limit.
 
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ss complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mrs S was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was increased, 
Studio Retail didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so. 
Our investigator said that Studio Retail should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mrs S. 
Studio Retail didnt agree. As Studio Retail didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ss complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
Mrs Ss income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayments to a 
given credit amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid and total amount borrowed, reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mrs S had been indebted, 
reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
When Mrs S opened her account in November 2017, Studio Retail has told us there were no 
signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, I can 
see that Mrs S was managing her external debt reasonably well. There was no evidence of 
significant arrears elsewhere and no County Court Judgments or bankruptcy. Mrs Ss 
income was estimated using external data as around £21,000. Sustainable repayments on 
the credit, if Mrs S had used all of it at once, would have been around £18 a month.
 On this basis I dont think there is anything to suggest that Studio Retail needed to do 
further checks or that it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved 
the account.
Three years later, Studio Retail increased Mrs Ss credit limit to £1,500  a five-fold increase 
on the original credit limit provided.
At this stage, Mrs Ss management of the much lower credit limit of £300 had been poor. In 
the 18 months preceding the increase Studio Retails records show that Mrs S was either in 
financial difficulty, at risk of financial difficulty, in persistent debt or in default in 15 of those 
months. While in the three months immediately preceding the increase Mrs Ss financial 
situation superficially appeared to have improved, Studio Retail didnt have any information 
to explain what had changed. I think given the difficulties Mrs S had experienced only very 
recently and the proposed large increase that Studio Retail had enough information to 
understand that Mrs S was at significant risk of not being able to manage any more credit.
Studio Retail submits that Mrs S paid off her entire balance three months before the credit 
limit increase. It also points to other information it saw which indicated Mrs S had managed 
to reduce her external borrowing, too. I havent seen evidence of this latter information.  
Studio Retail acknowledges there is no data to determine where any extra capital has come 
from but considers the behaviour observed is consistent with a customer who is consciously 
and systematically trying to reduce their overall debt.
I would agree that it appeared Mrs S was trying to manage her debt, although its not clear 
that she had reduced it overall. But that doesnt mean the credit limit increase was 
affordable. And Studio Retail concedes it doesnt know where the extra capital may have 
come from.
Mrs S has provided copies of her bank statements and I can see that in August 2020 Mrs S 
took out a £5,000 loan with a high cost lender. This lenders customer base was largely 
customers with poor credit. I can see that Mrs S used some of that loan to pay off other 
debts, including that with Studio Retail. So, I dont think that when Mrs S paid off her 
outstanding balance three months before the credit limit increase this was any kind of 
indication that Mrs S was managing her finances better or could afford additional credit of 
the amount Studio Retail gave her. I think it was clear that there was a significant risk Mrs S 
wouldnt have been able to repay what she already owed within a reasonable period of time, so Studio Retail shouldnt have increased her credit limit. Indeed, Studio Retails own 
records show that Mrs S fell into persistent arrears almost as soon as she began to utilise 
the increased credit.  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio Retail to refund any interest and charges incurred 
by Mrs S as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from November 2020 onwards, therefore Studio Retail should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred as a result of the increase in Mrs Ss credit 
limit to £1,500 in November 2020. That is, Studio Retail can only add interest 
accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £300  this being the credit limit 
before November 2020.
Studio Retail should work out how much Mrs S would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mrs S made since November 2020 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs S 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs S no longer owes any money, then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from November 2020. 
If an outstanding balance remains, Studio Retail should look to arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mrs S for the outstanding amount.
I understand Mrs S currently has an outstanding balance. I would remind Studio 
Retail of its obligation to treat Mrs S fairly if she is having difficulty meeting the 
repayments. If Mrs S feels she has been treated unfairly she must discuss this with 
Studio Retail first, and we can consider this as a separate complaint if she is 
unhappy with Studio Retails response. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Mrs S in November 
2020. To put this right I direct Studio Retail & Company Limited to pay compensation as 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman