DRN-3226555
The complaint
Mr A complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) declined a claim for a blocked 
drain under his home emergency policy. He wants the claim accepted and his plumbers bill 
reimbursed.
What happened
Mr As policy provided for emergency repairs in the home. When the downstairs bathroom 
toilet and sink became blocked, Mrs A contacted Astrenska. It asked if there was another 
working toilet in the house and she confirmed that there was. Astrenska said the blockage 
wasnt covered by the policy as it wasnt an emergency given there was a functioning toilet. 
Mr A contacted a plumbing firm who charged £168 to unblock the drain by jetting it.
Mr A complained to Astrenska. It said it needed to follow the policy terms and conditions and 
the problem wasnt covered if there was another working toilet. It also said the policy didnt 
cover shared drains or pipework. Mr A referred his complaint to our service, saying that his 
property didnt have shared drains or pipework.
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Astrenska had confirmed it had made an error in referring to shared pipework and 
drains which wasnt relevant. It apologised for this. But he said Astrenska hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim because there was another functioning toilet in the house and 
this exclusion was specifically referred to in the policy terms and conditions (T&Cs).
Mr A said the policy was unfair in covering some situations and not others. Our investigator 
agreed it was frustrating but said he still didnt think Astrenska had acted unfairly in declining 
the claim in the specific circumstances of what had happened. 
As Mr A doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration, but the policy doesnt provide for every eventuality. The 
T&Cs set out what is and isnt covered. It specifically doesnt cover:
any claim where there is another working toilet within your home unless there are 
accessibility issues which deem the use of another toilet impossible.
There was another working toilet and there werent accessibility issues. And, inconvenient as 
the problem was, it wasnt an emergency under the terms of the policy. As the above 
exclusion is clearly set out in the T&Cs, I dont think Astrenska was unreasonable in saying 
the policy didnt cover this particular problem. 
Mr A says that he cant see how Astrenska can fairly apply the working toilet exclusion if the 
problem is caused by a blocked internal drain which might impact other facilities, like a 
kitchen. I agree, had other facilities been impacted it might not have been reasonable for 
Astrenska to apply this exclusion. But in the circumstances here only the downstairs 
bathroom toilet and basin were blocked. So, I dont think the exclusion has been unfairly 
applied and Astrenska neednt do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman