DRN-4001297
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) suspended his internet banking and closed 
his account without notice.
Background
In November 2022, Mr J began having difficulty accessing his internet banking. Lloyds 
subsequently informed him that this was because it had decided to close Mr Js account with 
immediate effect. Mr J complained about Lloyds actions. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Js 
complaint. As Mr J remained dissatisfied, Mr J referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr J 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr J, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr J is unhappy that 
Lloyds closed his account. 
However, each bank has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open 
(or close) accounts and providing a customer with an account is a commercial decision that 
a bank is entitled to take. And while Mr J is unhappy that his account was closed without 
notice, Ive reviewed Lloyds actions and Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient grounds to close Mr Js account and as such its 
decision wasnt unfair in the circumstances. Furthermore as Mr Js internet banking was 
suspended pending the closure of his account, it follows that Lloyds didnt act unfairly in this 
regard either. 
I realise that Lloyds decision will have been very disappointing to Mr J and I can appreciate 
why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. But despite this, Im 
simply not in a position to be able to tell Lloyds it has to continue offering Mr J an account in 
circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide him with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr J has enquired whether Lloyds actions will result in him being 
unable to access other banking services. However, although Lloyds closed Mr Js account, 
which Ive already explained it was entitled to do, Ive not seen that Lloyds has done 
anything specific that will result in Mr J being unable to access banking services outside its 
group. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr J and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr J. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Lloyds was entitled to close his account in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman