DRN-2813084
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC Bank UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr S says that payments made to a bar on 23rd February 2020 we not made him.  Between 
9.25pm and 10.55pm, four transactions were made totalling over £3000.  Another six 
transactions were attempted but declined.
Mr S says he was on holiday with his cousin for three nights.  On their last night, they visited 
a bar.  Whilst there, he thinks their drinks were spiked because he doesnt remember much 
of the night having ordered their first drinks. He lost his cousin in the bar and only found him 
once he had returned to his own hostel.
The following morning, he was alerted by another bank who I will call T to the fact that some 
transactions attempted the night before on his account had been blocked.  Mr S says that 
this is when he checked his HSBC account and was told that some transactions had also 
been made on his account.
Mr S also checked his account with bank L.  A successful transaction had been made on this 
account.  Mr S thinks this was the payment he authorised for the first drinks he had ordered.
HSBC told Mr S that a payment of over £800 had been the first transaction attempted.  This 
had been blocked and a text message had been sent to Mr Ss registered number asking if 
he had made the payment.  It said Mr S had responded with a yes  so when the next 
payment was attempted two minutes later for a similar amount, it had been allowed to go 
through.
A further three payments were successful, and five payments were declined.
Mr S raised a fraud complaint.  He said he hadnt made any of these payments.  He 
confirmed his card was on his person and was still with him the following morning.  He also 
confirmed his phone was security protected using his face as ID.
HSBC decided not to refund the payments to Mr S.  It said it was satisfied that the payments 
had all been made by him for the following reasons:
- Mr Ss genuine card and correct PIN had been used
- there had been no plausible explanation as to how these could have been 
compromised because the last authorised use of Mr Ss card was in the UK
- it had received a response to the fraud text message it had sent confirming the 
payment was recognised  and as Mr Ss phone could only be unlocked using his 
face as ID, it concluded it was unlikely that a fraudster had been able to respond to 
the message
So, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.  He told our investigator the following:
- that he had researched the bar he had been to and that search revealed that there 
had been previous similar incidents when the police had done very little.  For this 
reason, he had not reported his matter to the police.
- he had flown back to the UK earlier than he had planned because of this
- he had his PIN number stored in the notes section of his phone and had not shared 
this with anyone
- however, his PIN for his HSBC account was the same as other cards
- he thinks he may have responded to the text message sent by HSBC but recalls the 
amount quoted in the text message was in local currency and not in pounds
- finally, he confirmed that he thought his drink had been tampered with.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask HSBC to do anymore.  In summary, she 
concluded Mr S must have authorised the payments.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and HSBC have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr S that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Unfortunately, based on what I have seen, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint either.
In short, HSBC is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs 2017).
Mr S says he didnt make the disputed payments and is seeking a refund. So, my 
primary concern is to come to a view about whether I think he authorised the 
payments.
Having reviewed the banks reports, Im satisfied that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN 
were used in order for the disputed payments to take place. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him 
liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that Mr S consented to the payments being made.
Addressing the issue of Mr Ss PIN  I agree with HSBC and the investigator that there 
is no credible explanation of how this could have been compromised.  So, I think it was 
Mr S making the payments  albeit whilst under the influence.
I take on board what Mr S says about his drinks being tampered with and I have no reason 
to doubt him.  But consent, for the purposes of the PSRs, is a formal concept and is not 
reliant on what Mr S might have known at the time.  In other words, the transactions being 
made dont have to be fully explained to him at the time he is making them.  Unfortunately 
for Mr S, being drunk or being drugged does not invalidate consent.Ive then gone on to consider whether HSBC could have done more to protect Mr Ss 
account that day.
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, 
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out 
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry 
guidance on this in the BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. HSBC has not signed up to the Code, but it 
remains persuasive evidence of what banks can do to protect customers, especially 
vulnerable customers.
In Mr Ss case, HSBC did react to the first attempt that was made that night  and it sent a 
text message to Mr S asking if the payment was genuine.  It received a positive response 
and that is why it appears the further payments were allowed to be made. I think it acted 
fairly and I cant say it did anything wrong in allowing the subsequent payments  after all, 
Mr S had confirmed the first one was genuine.
Mr S says he thinks he may have responded to a text message from HSBC but complains 
the amount was in local currency and it would have been difficult to work out what this 
would have meant in pounds.  Ive thought about whether I think HSBC was wrong or 
unfair to send such a text  and Ive concluded it was not.  The amount stated in the text 
was the currency Mr S was paying in and I think it is fair in the circumstances not to 
convert the payment into pounds.
So, whilst Mr S feels strongly about what happened that night and that HSBC should bear 
the responsibility, Im afraid I dont agree.  I think he authorised the payments and I think 
HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in monitoring his account.  I cant see that it could have 
done anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman