DRN-1823124
The complaint
Mr N complains that Capital One gave him incorrect information which led him to believe he 
had more available funds on his credit card, than he did.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr N contacted Capital One to report a fraudulent transaction on his 
account. Capital One indicated it would cancel his card, but as Mr N knew there was a 
transaction due to go through he said he didnt want the card cancelled. So Capital One 
agreed to call back the following day to deal with the matter.
When Mr N later spoke to Capital One about the fraud, it treated a number of transactions 
(between November 2018 and August 2019 as potentially fraudulent)  this was because   
Mr N told Capital One hed lost his card in around November or December 2018. The 
fraudulent transactions were removed from the account while the investigation took place. 
The agent at Capital One told Mr N any transactions which turned out to be genuine, would 
re-debit the account. 
Mr N had a further call with Capital One when he said it was only one transaction he wanted 
to be taken as fraudulent, and that the rest of the transactions were genuine. At this point   
Mr N spoke to Capital Ones complaint team and it apologised that transactions had been 
taken has fraudulent, when Mr N hadnt intended them to be. For this misunderstanding 
Capital One credited Mr N with £15.00 as a gesture of goodwill.
During a call on 2 September 2019, Capital One told Mr N the genuine transactions had re-
debited his account and told him what he could spend on his account. But in fact, the 
genuine transactions didnt re-debit Mr Ns account until overnight on 9 September 2019  
so the amount Capital One gave Mr N as his available balance was incorrect.
Mr N has said as a result of the incorrect information being given, he has spent over his 
credit limit, leading to some transactions being declined  its also led to him not being able 
to make repayments on items he bought for his house, which have now been taken back.
Mr N complained to Capital One and it issued its final response on 19 September 2019. It 
said it had apologised for some transactions being taken as fraudulent, when Mr N had not 
intended them to be  and confirmed it had given Mr N £15.00 as a gesture of goodwill for 
this. It also upheld Mr Ns complaint for incorrect information being given on 2 September 
2019, about transactions re-debiting his account. In recognition of this error it credited Mr N 
£25.00.
Mr N didnt think Capital One had done enough to put things right, he thought the money he 
had spent which took him over his credit limit should be returned to him - so he brought his 
complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Capital 
One needed to do anymore, he thought that although Capital One acknowledged things 
couldve been dealt with better, the actions it had taken and compensation it had given were 
appropriate and he didnt think he could ask it to do more.
As Mr N didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I
think is relevant. Mr N has raised a number of complaint points which Capital One covered 
off in its final response. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. I hope Mr N wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed things into what I 
see is the crux of his complaint.
Its not in dispute that Capital One gave Mr N some incorrect information about his account 
balance. Capital One has apologised for this and accept this caused him distress and 
inconvenience. So the key thing I need to look at is whether Capital One should do anything 
more to put things right.
Ive thought carefully about what happened when Mr N first reported the disputed transaction 
to Capital One.  Mr N told Capital One he had lost his card around November/December 
2018, so I think Capital One were right to initially capture transactions between these dates 
as potentially being fraudulent. Ive listed to this call, which took place in August 2019, and 
Capital One did explain to Mr N that any transactions which turned out to be genuine would 
be re-debited to his account  so I think Mr N had an awareness at this point, that this could 
happen. 
Ive listened to the call Mr N had with Capital One on 9 September 2019. In this call Mr N 
says he was aware the balance he was given previously was incorrect and the balance 
available was more than it should have been.  Mr N comments in the call about what would 
have happened if he had spent the money. Mr N says he hasnt spent the money because 
he knew he couldnt. He goes on to say that because Capital One told him he could spend it, 
he felt he should be allowed to spend the money.
During the call Capital One acknowledged the point that Mr N makes. It explains his balance 
will update overnight with the re-debited transactions  but it adds that Mr N should keep an 
eye on his account and if he spots anything that he doesnt recognise or is incorrect, he 
should call back. Ive seen Mr N spoke with Capital One again on 10 September 2019, as he 
didnt think his mobile app was showing the correct balance information  despite being told 
it would be updated overnight.
Having looked at Mr Ns statements, I can see the transactions which took him over his 
credit limit took place after hed spoken with Capital One  where hed told it he knew the 
available balance hed been given was incorrect. When I consider this, alongside Capital 
One saying to Mr N that he should speak to it again if he thought something was wrong  I 
cant fairly or reasonably say the transactions which took Mr N over his credit limit, were only 
made as a direct result of Capital One given incorrect information. I say this because Mr N 
has said he knew the balance was wrong and that he couldnt spend the money.
I dont agree with the point Mr N made to Capital One  that because he was told he had a 
higher available balance, he should be allowed to spend that money. In this case because 
Capital One gave Mr N incorrect information about his balance, it doesnt mean Mr N should 
be allowed to spend that balance, when hes said he knew the balance he was given was 
wrong. I also have to consider that in spending on his credit card, Mr N has benefited from the transactions hes made and the money thats been spent  so it follows that its fair and 
reasonable for them to form part of his balance. 
I can understand why Mr N feels strongly about whats happened and this has been a 
difficult time for him. But based on everything Ive seen it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask Capital One to do more than it already has to put things right. 
I note Mr N has mentioned he would consider taking this matter to court. Mr N doesnt have 
to accept my decision. If he doesnt, it wont be binding on him, and subject to any time limits 
or other restrictions a court might impose, his right to take legal action against the bank wont 
have been prejudiced by our consideration of his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman