DRN-3216963
The complaint
Mr T complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed his accounts. And took too long to 
release funds held in the accounts back to him. 
What happened
Mr T had a current account, savings account and credit card account with Metro.
In October 2019, Metro reviewed Mr Ts accounts  Whilst it completed its review Metro 
blocked the accounts  which meant Mr T couldnt access the funds in his accounts or use 
his credit card.  In February 2020, Metro asked Mr T to provide information about his 
address and identity. The accounts were blocked from October 2019 until April 2020.
Mr T complained to Metro about the restrictions on his accounts. He telephoned Metro to try 
and find out what was happening with his accounts and the reasons behind the banks 
actions. Metro didnt provide Mr T with much information and said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations. 
Following its review, Metro decided to close Mr Ts accounts. The bank wrote to Mr T on 14 
April 2020 and gave him 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Following this Mr T transferred his funds to an account held with another bank. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that the restrictions on his account meant hed lost out on the opportunity to obtain 
a mortgage and buy a property in the UK as hed intended to use the money in his savings 
account to help finance the purchase. And that the whole experience had been upsetting 
and stressful for him. So, he said Metro should pay him compensation. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ts accounts. She said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated Mr T fairly when it decided to close his 
accounts. However, she said Metro took too long to complete its review and couldve done 
things much quicker. So, she said Metro should pay Mr T £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the time it had taken to complete its review had caused him. 
Metro accepted what the investigator said. Mr T disagreed. He explained that at the time he 
was planning to buy a property with the funds in his savings account, but because of the 
block he couldnt do so. Mr T also said he wasnt able to fulfil some financial commitments 
because he couldnt access his funds and his health suffered. So, said Metro should pay him 
£2,000 compensation for the inconvenience and financial losses caused by his accounts 
being blocked for six months. 
The investigator asked Mr T to provide evidence of his losses, impact and financial 
circumstances. Mr T didnt provide anything and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Ts account also permit Metro to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Mr Ts account. Metro has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Metro were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr T inconvenience 
and upset when it decided to block his accounts and ask him to provide information, I cant 
say the bank did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
I understand that Mr T wants Metro to explain the reason it applied the block to his accounts 
in the first place. And I can see that Mr T asked Metro to explain itself on several occasions. 
But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its 
under no obligation to tell Mr T the reasons behind the account review and block, as much 
as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
However, while Metro are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Metro initially blocked Mr Ts account on 11 October 
2019.  I can see that Metro asked Mr T to provide it with information and Mr T did so in 
February 2020. However, following this, Mr Ts account remained blocked for a further two 
months and Metro asked Mr T to provide information that it should have requested when it 
first blocked his account in October 2019. So, Im satisfied Metro has caused unnecessary 
delays in releasing Mr Ts funds.
Metro hasnt offered any explanation for why its review of Mr Ts account took so long to 
complete. It has accepted it should have unblocked Mr Ts account sooner than it did and 
couldve asked Mr T for the extra information when it first spoke to him in late 2019 instead 
of asking him for the information four months later in February 2020. Metro has agreed with 
the investigator view to pay Mr T £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay. 
In response to the investigators view Mr T said he missed out on buying a property in the 
UK and credit. Hes also said that the restrictions caused him stress, anxiety and that his 
health suffered. So, he says the compensation offered isnt enough to reflect the amount of 
trouble, financial loss and upset hes suffered. 
Ive considered what Mr T has said about how Metros actions impacted him and Ive noted 
that despite being asked to provide evidence to support the impact he says Metros actions 
had on him, he hasnt done so. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for Mr T 
but for me to award more compensation Id have to be satisfied that the delays caused an 
unreasonable level of inconvenience and financial loss. And despite being asked to do so 
Mr T hasnt provided evidence to support his financial losses, or any information regarding 
his intended property purchase such as a mortgage application. So, it wouldnt be fair of me 
to tell Metro to pay financial loss or compensation for something theres no evidence of.  Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Metros 
actions have had on Mr T and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its fair to say the delays caused by Metro when it 
reviewed Mr Ts accounts caused Mr T worry and upset. And I agree some compensation is 
appropriate for this. I say this because Mr T had to spend time contacting Metro and he had 
to wait six months for Metro to release his funds. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been  
inconvenient and upsetting for him. And its only right that Metro recognises this. However, 
Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and 
upset Mr T was caused. So, while Mr T may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the 
compensation recommended by the investigator recognises the impact Metros actions had 
in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be directing Metro to pay any 
more.    
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ts accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr T with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave Mr T 60 days notice of its intention to close his accounts. The bank wrote to 
Mr T on in April 2020, telling him that his accounts would close. So, it was entitled to close 
the accounts as it has already done. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mr T trouble and upset when he wasnt able to use his 
accounts for a number of months. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and 
frustrating time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having 
looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent found grounds to 
increase the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. So, I wont be telling Metro to do anything else to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Metro Bank PLC 
should pay Mr T £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for 
Metro to complete its review of Mr Ts accounts and release his funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman