DRN-4045929
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her motor
insurance claim.
Mrs S is a named driver under the policy with Advantage and owner of the vehicle insured.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the recommendations made since the 
matter has been with this service and the reasons for my decision.
On 20 January 2022, Mrs S says she was in a pharmacy and, when she left to go back to 
her car, she couldnt find her car key. At the time, she said she was struggling with her 
daughter who was unwell and has severe mental and physical disabilities, so she decided to 
get a taxi home instead of continuing to search for the key. As a result of the situation, she 
wasnt sure if shed lost the key or misplaced it. And she says she didnt recognise even a 
tiny possibility the car would be stolen as shed left several important and valuable items in 
her car including a tablet, wallet with £230 cash, laptop, pram, new mobile phone items 
worth £100, store vouchers worth almost £500, personal documents and bank cards.
On 22 January, the police pulled her vehicle over and realised it had been stolen. However, 
Mrs S says she didnt realise this until two days later when she returned to the pharmacy on 
24 January to get her car with the spare key and found it was missing. In that time, Mrs S 
says she was focused on her daughters health and didnt even contact her bank to check on 
her cards which shows she didnt recognise any risk of the car being stolen.
Advantage contacted Mrs S after it received a notification of the recovered vehicle from the 
police. Mrs S then made a claim on the motor insurance policy for the damage caused to her 
car as well as the items which had been left in it. 
Advantage reviewed the claim and, ultimately, declined it. It said, although Mrs S reported 
the loss of her key to the police, it couldnt find any evidence shed tried to notify it as her 
insurer. The engineers report confirmed the key was found in Mrs Ss car and had been 
used to steal it. As a result, Advantage concluded the key had either been left in the car or 
dropped close to it. Therefore, it considered Mrs S breached the policy term requiring her to 
protect her car from damage or loss. This is because Mrs S was aware the car key was 
outstanding, and she didnt make any attempts to safeguard her car or mitigate the risk of it 
being stolen. The key was then used to steal her car.
Mrs S complained to Advantage. It didnt change the decision although it paid £50 to Mrs S 
for the time it was taking for it to decide her claim. Mrs S was unhappy and brought her 
complaint to this service.
An Investigator reviewed matters and thought Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim. They explained if Mrs S had contacted Advantage on realising her key 
may be lost, they wouldve been able to take action to prevent the theft. For example, they 
couldve instructed a roadside assistance patrol to tow the car away within 90 minutes. 
Instead, Mrs S failing to notify it and leaving the car for four days in the location where the 
key had been likely lost left it vulnerable to theft. Notwithstanding this, the Investigator 
compiled a detailed timeline of events and noted Advantage had caused avoidable delays of 
three months in total. And, although this didnt change the outcome of the claim, it caused 
considerable emotional distress to Mrs S, who was vulnerable. So, the Investigator 
recommended Advantage pay £250 in addition to the £50 already paid, a total of £300.
Advantage accepted the recommendation, but Mrs S didnt agree this was enough. She said 
she had experienced further financial losses because of the three months of avoidable 
delays. This includes the following:
- Car tax, insurance and MOT costs (as this had expired when the car was returned).
- The cost of a new battery as hers had gone flat by the time the car was returned.
- £2,000 to cover transport costs including taxis for her and her disabled daughter to 
attend medical appointments during this time while she was pregnant.
- Further compensation for the impact of the delays on her and her daughter.
- The loss in value of the car as she couldve sold it if itd been returned sooner.
The Investigator considered this and recommended Advantage pay Mrs S a loss of use 
payment for the time which she was without her car as a result of the avoidable delays. The 
Investigator calculated this to be 80 days at £10 a day which is what is generally considered 
reasonable. However, the Investigator didnt ask Advantage to cover the cost of the battery 
or any sale price for Mrs Ss car as there was no evidence to support this. Further, she 
considered the insurance costs, tax and MOT were part of the normal running of a car which 
shed have needed to pay to have use of it.
Advantage communicated with the Investigator about this and ultimately agreed to the 
recommendation to pay Mrs S a further £250 as compensation and £800 for loss of use. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she lost her job after her car was taken and the sum doesnt 
adequately recognise the impact on her and her daughter. Mrs S reiterated her earlier points 
about the poor service she received and explained she wasnt thinking her car would be 
stolen. This has all significantly exacerbated what was an already challenging time for Mrs S 
so she wanted a much higher amount. The points raised by Mrs S didnt change the 
Investigators view. 
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. Having done so, I must explain to Mrs S I consider the Investigator reached a fair outcome in 
this matter. So, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything more than it has agreed to do to 
put things right. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ss declined claim
Advantage has provided a copy of the policy wording which says You, or any person in 
charge of your Car, must protect it from damage or loss. Advantages policy also provides 
cover in the event of a key being lost or stolen and it explained other options such as 
arranging for the car to be towed away from the location where the key went missing.
I understand Mrs S says she wasnt sure if shed lost her key given the situation with her 
daughter and didnt think there was any possibility the car would be stolen. But, taking 
everything into account, I think it was fair for Advantage to conclude there was a reasonable 
expectation of a risk of theft. And the policy provided cover to help Mrs S take steps to 
secure the car in the event of the car key being lost or stolen. 
Notwithstanding this risk, I havent seen any evidence to show steps were taken by Mrs S to 
secure the car. I say this particularly as the car was left by Mrs S for four days before she 
was contacted by Advantage to let her know itd been stolen and recovered by the police. 
Ive also seen the claim notes from the time which record Mrs S said  on 25 January  she 
had lost the key and called the police as well as tried to phone her insurer but couldnt get 
through. But I havent seen any evidence she contacted Advantage in this time or took the 
spare key to the location shed left the car in to move it.
In light of this, Im satisfied Advantages decision to reject the claim was reasonable on the 
basis Mrs S failed to protect the car and reduce the risk of it being stolen. I think Advantage 
has fairly applied its exclusion and in line with the policy when declining this claim.
the service given to Mrs S
The key facts here arent in dispute. Advantage admits it got things wrong when the progress 
of Mrs Ss claim was avoidably delayed. The key issue I must decide is whether the things it 
has agreed to do to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
To do this, I need to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Mrs S suffered 
because her car was stolen and its consequences, which Advantage isnt responsible for, 
with what Advantage did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. For example, the 
inconvenience of not having her car in the weeks and months after it was taken (excluding 
any period of avoidable delays caused by Advantage) - whilst understandably frustrating for 
Mrs S  is a consequence of her car being stolen rather than Advantages poor service. 
Having reviewed this matter, I agree Advantage caused avoidable delays of around three 
months when dealing with Mrs Ss claim. This is due to the following:
- An interview was conducted with Mrs S on 1 April 2022.
- Advantage told the policyholder only it declined the claim on 31 May. 
- Mrs S - the owner of the car and party making the claim - wasnt made aware of this 
until she phoned on 30 June to chase what was happening. 
It also took Advantage eleven weeks for it to consider Mrs Ss complaint. This was all at a 
time when it was aware she was a vulnerable consumer and shouldve prioritised the matter. In light of this, its right Advantage should compensate Mrs S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the avoidable delays experienced in the progression of her claim. 
And I consider the total compensation of £300 to be a fair and reasonable way to do this.  
As Ive mentioned, this was always going to be an incredibly difficult and distressing time for 
Mrs S, and it wouldve taken a certain amount of time for the claim to be reviewed. I accept 
this period was made particularly distressing as Mrs S says she didnt have an alternative 
vehicle. Even so, I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was because of something 
Advantage did wrong and was instead due to the theft of Mrs Ss car. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to say all the additional costs Mrs S says shes incurred, wouldnt have always 
been incurred because her car was stolen. 
Having said this, I agree Advantage should pay compensation to Mrs S for the time she was 
without her car due to the avoidable delays caused by Advantage. This covers the period 
from when Advantage should reasonably have returned the car to her (which I consider is 
reasonably just over two weeks after Mrs Ss interview) up to the date Mrs Ss car was 
actually returned to her. Advantage has agreed this is £800 for a period of 80 days at £10 a 
day and this amount is generally considered a reasonable sum for the daily loss of use of a 
vehicle in the absence of other evidence. 
Mrs Ss comments about the further costs she feels Advantage should pay dont change my 
decision. She hasnt provided our service with evidence of any of the items she seeks to 
claim compensation for such as taxi costs, a flat battery, a lost sale. Nor has she provided 
any evidence it was Advantages avoidable delay which led to the losses shes claiming. For 
example, Mrs S says she lost her job because of the insurance company taking the car and 
wants £5,000 for this. But her car was stolen. And, as Ive set out above, Advantage isnt 
responsible for the distress and inconvenience Mrs S faced as a result of her car being 
stolen, only for anything above and beyond this which it caused.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve the dispute with Advantage  can do for her.
Putting things right
To put things right, Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay to Mrs S a further 
£250 compensation and £800 for the loss of use of her vehicle.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited
needs to do the things set out above to put things right. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 6 
September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman