DRN-2544559
The complaint
Mr A complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) and their decision to decline his 
claim for a leaking hot water tank, before cancelling his policy altogether.
What happened
Mr A took out a Homecare insurance policy with BGIL in August 2020. This policy insured Mr 
As boiler and central heating system, as well as providing an annual service. Mr A had 
previously taken out a separate policy insuring the same boiler and central heating system in 
September 2018. And his wife had taken out a separate policy in September 2019. BGIL 
have confirmed that Mr As policy in 2020 was a new policy, rather than a continuation of the 
policies that had been taken out before.
In September 2020, BGIL completed an annual service, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. No issues were identified with the boiler or the central heating system. But in 
October 2020, Mr A noticed a leak from his hot water tank, a part of his central heating 
system. So, he contacted BGIL to make a claim. An engineer from BGIL attended and said 
the hot water tank wasnt covered by the policy. So, they recommended Mr A replace his 
current system with a combi-boiler. But this option wasnt available to Mr A and the hot water 
tank was continuing to leak. So, in November 2020, he made an emergency claim on his 
policy, for the water tank to be fixed.
But the engineer due to attend called Mr A and explained he wouldnt be attending. He 
explained he completed the annual service in 2019, and he told the policy holder at the time 
that the water tank was in poor condition. So, he said he wouldnt be attending as it wasnt 
covered. 
Mr A queried this with BGIL. And they said the water tank was declared obsolete when it 
was serviced in 2019. So, they thought the policy shouldve been downgraded to reflect this 
in 2019, and that Mr As current policy shouldnt have been provided. So, they refunded 
2019s premiums to Mr As wife, and refunded Mr As premiums hed paid so far for his 2020 
policy. They then cancelled the policy without repairing the leak. Mr A wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A complained about BGILs decision to decline his claim. He explained an engineer had 
completed an annual service in September 2020 and hadnt found any issues with the hot 
water tank. He didnt think it was fair to decline his claim based on an inspection carried out 
on a previous, complete separate policy. And because of this, hed had to pay for the repair 
work himself as hed been left without heating and hot water. So, he wanted BGIL to refund 
him this cost.
BGIL thought theyd acted fairly by refunded Mr A and his wife the premiums they had paid 
for the policies taken out in 2019 and 2020, as they agreed the policies shouldnt have been 
provided. But as the water tank had been deemed obsolete, they thought theyd acted fairly 
when declining Mr As claim. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr A 
remained unhappy with this response, so he asked us to continue with our investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought the policies taken out 
in 2018, 2019 and 2020 were separate, and not continuations. So, she didnt think BGIL 
were fair to decline Mr As claim made under the 2020 policy, based on information provided 
on the 2019 policy. She thought BGIL shouldve arranged a first visit to check Mr As boiler 
and central heating system and if they had, they wouldve been able to make Mr A aware the 
hot water tank wouldnt be covered. Instead, an annual service was arranged. And shed 
seen the checklist from this visit, which showed the water tank hadnt been checked. So, she 
didnt think Mr A was to blame for this. 
She thought the 2020 policy covered the hot water tank and she explained she wouldve 
expected BGIL to progress the claim in line with terms and conditions of the policy. So, she 
wouldve expected BGIL to attempt a repair before cancelling it. And they didnt do this. She 
thought this left Mr A needing to arrange a repair himself and cover the cost of this, which he 
did. So, she thought BGIL should refund Mr A this cost, plus 8% statutory interest from the 
date he paid the repair invoice, to the date BGIL provided Mr A with a refund. But she 
recognised BGIL had already refunded Mr A and his wife their premium costs and so 
explained BGIL should subtract these amounts from the refund.
Mr A accepted this recommendation. But BGIL didnt. They referred to the terms and 
conditions which explained a first visit wasnt always required when a policy was taken out. 
So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by arranging an annual service instead. And 
they thought the terms made it clear that if parts couldnt be found for a repair, a policy may 
need to be cancelled. So, they thought theyd acted fairly and didnt think they should cover 
Mr As repair costs. As BGIL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Insurers such as BGIL have a duty to handle claims made on policies they provide promptly 
and fairly. BGIL believe their decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was fair. Mr 
A doesnt. So, Ive had to consider whether I think BGIL acted in line with the terms of the 
policy and if I think they have, whether it was fair to do so. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
First, I think its important to consider the three policies Mr A and his wife took out. The 
policies were taken out as new policies, rather than renewals. So, I dont think Mr As policy 
taken out in August 2020 was a continuation of the policies taken out before it. And because 
of this, I dont think its fair or reasonable for BGIL to use information included on previous 
policies to influence the way they handled or decided upon Mr As claim which was made in 
October 2020.
I recognise an engineer attended Mr As property in 2019, and they noted the customer 
checklist to say the hot water tank wouldnt be covered as obsolete. And I recognise this was 
also recorded on BGILs system. But this note was made on a policy in Mr As wife name, 
not Mr As. So, this note was made on an entirely separate policy, with an entirely separate 
policy holder. Mr A took out a new policy in August 2020. And this policy covered the hot water tank. Ive 
seen no evidence to show BGIL made Mr A aware the hot water tank wouldnt be covered. 
Id have expected them to do so when the policy was taken out, as theyve confirmed they 
had notes which stated this. But they didnt. 
And Id have expected this to have been noticed on the first visit, or if one wasnt arranged, 
the first annual service during the policy. But Ive seen the customer checklist which shows 
when an engineer attended in September 2020, the hot water tank wasnt inspected. The 
terms of the policy state a first or annual service shouldve been completed on the central 
heating system. And the terms explain a hot water tank is part of this system. 
Im unable to speculate why this service wasnt carried out on the water tank. But I think its 
likely if it had been completed, the same issue wouldve been noticed. And at this point, Mr A 
wouldve been notified the water tank wasnt covered and hed have had an opportunity to 
seek cover elsewhere. But as BGIL didnt do this, Mr A wasnt afforded this opportunity.
So, as Mr A wasnt told his water tank wouldnt be covered under the policy after it was taken 
out in August 2020, I think BGIL had a duty to handle Mr As claim fairly, in line with the 
terms of the policy he held. So, Ive looked at what his policy does cover, and what BGIL 
shouldve done. The policy explains when a central heating system breaks down BGIL will 
cover all repairs to the heat and hot water system on your property and a replacement of 
parts of your central heating system if we cant repair them. So, I think BGIL shouldve 
attempted to repair Mr As hot water tank and replaced parts if they were unable to be 
repaired.
But, under the section labelled Making Repairs I have seen it explains If we cant get hold 
of the parts, we may need to cancel your agreement (or part of it). So, I can understand why 
BGIL think their decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was reasonable. But 
crucially, I dont think it was fair for BGIL to rely on this term without making an attempt to 
repair the hot water tank first. And they didnt do this. So, I dont think BGIL handled Mr As 
claim fairly.
Putting things right
As I dont think BGIL handled Mr As claim fairly, Ive thought about what BGIL should 
reasonably do compensate Mr A. And any direction I make is intended to place Mr A back in 
the situation he wouldve been, had BGIL not made an error.
In this situation, I wouldve expected BGIL to have attempted to repair the leak to Mr As hot 
water tank. Mr A has confirmed he arranged for the repairs to be completed himself, which 
resolved the issue and stopped the leak. And I think BGILs failure to attempt a repair 
resulted in Mr A having to do this himself, and the costs he incurred. So, I think BGIL should 
refund Mr A the cost of the repair. And I think BGIL should pay Mr A 8% statutory interest on 
this refund amount, from the date Mr A paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
But I am aware BGIL have already refunded Mr A the cost of his premiums for the policy that 
was incepted in August 2020 and the previous policy held by Mr As wife, in September 
2019. As Im asking BGIL to cover the cost of the repair, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to ask them to do this and Mr A not pay for the cost of the policy cover. And I think Mr A 
received the benefit of his boiler being serviced in 2019, through the separate policy taken 
out by his wife. So, in order to place Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in, and not 
be left in a better situation as this is something Im unable to do, I think BGIL are able to 
subtract the amount theyve already refunded Mr A and his wife from the refund Im directing 
them to pay to cover the cost of the repairs. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im upholding Mr As complaint and I direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to take the following action:
Reimburse Mr A the cost of the repair work needed to fix the leak to his hot water 
tank, less the refund BGIL have already provided for the policy premiums; and
Pay 8% statutory interest on this amount from the date Mr A paid the invoice for the 
work to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman