DRN-3183556
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account (PBA) in August 2010 by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax). She says she didnt understand that the 
account came with a fee and that she didnt need any of the benefits it included.
She also says she was in financial difficulties and that Halifax didnt do what it could or 
should to help her, meaning shes stuck living in an overdraft which she cant repay. 
However, those issues are being dealt with as a separate complaint and I wont be 
discussing them at all in this decision.
What happened
In August 2010 Mrs M upgraded her fee free current account to an Ultimate Reward Current 
Account (URCA). At the time I can see it cost her £12.50 per month and came with a range 
of benefits, the key ones being travel insurance; roadside assistance; mobile phone 
insurance; home emergency cover; and a fee free overdraft of up to £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account our well-established approach to the sale of packaged bank 
accounts, which everyone can read on our website.
Having looked at everything, I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. As Ive 
already said, I wont be discussing Mrs Ms overall financial position and whether Halifax has 
done everything it should over the years to treat her sympathetically. But I am satisfied that 
there is no evidence that this package was mis-sold to her.
Mrs M says she had no need of any of the insurance benefits. However, Ive seen evidence 
to suggest that she could have used at least some of them. For example, spending on her 
account at the time suggests that she was paying towards a car, so could have used the 
roadside assistance. It also seems that she held a mortgage, meaning that the home 
emergency cover could have been useful for her. I accept there is nothing to show that either 
the travel insurance or the mobile phone insurance would have been of particular interest to 
her.
However, regardless of the attractiveness or otherwise of the insurance benefits, I can see 
why Mrs M would have decided to upgrade to the PBA in any event, as a result of her 
particular circumstances. Namely, her clear need to use an overdraft, and the immediate 
savings that she made by having the PBA. It seems that Mrs M had an arranged overdraft of 
£200 at the time of the sale, which didnt change as a result of the upgrade. However, in the 
months before the upgrade she was paying between £24 and £29 per month in arranged 
overdraft fees. This monthly charge was effectively replaced by the £12.50 URCA fee, which 
I understand later increased to £15. So she straight away began to make savings in that 
way.
I accept its likely that Halifax didnt give Mrs M information on every single aspect of the 
PBA. But I still think she would have taken the account in any event. Even disregarding all 
the insurance benefits that came with the URCA (which isnt necessary, as she could have 
used some of them) the overdraft benefit alone would have been enough to make the 
account an attractive prospect to her. So, Ive not seen any evidence that she was misled by 
Halifax or has lost out because of any mistake made by it.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this account and Halifax doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman