DRN-3201601
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought HSBCs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
HSBC cant tell us how it thinks PPI came to be sold to Mrs B. Mrs B told us cover was sold 
to her at the same time she applied for her credit card in an HSBC branch. The evidence 
doesnt suggest she is wrong in her recollection on that point. So I have treated this as a 
face to face sale. I cant know what was said to Mrs B when she met with HSBC, so to help 
me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at what she remembers about 
that meeting. And Ive also considered HSBCs electronic information thats available from 
the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs B would have known the PPI was optional and 
she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see from HSBCs complaint 
investigation notes that Mrs B told it she didnt routinely take out insurance because she 
didnt believe in it. She said she didnt know about the cover until enquiries were made in 
connection with her complaint. But in the PPI questionnaire submitted by the representative, 
Mrs B said that at the point of sale, she understood the cover would protect her if she didnt 
work, but that the policys terms and conditions werent explained to her. Its not entirely 
clear to me how PPI could have been added to her account without Mrs Bs knowledge if she 
also recalls a conversation about the insurance and HSBCs alleged failure to disclose 
certain things about it. 
The PPI would have shown on Mrs Bs monthly credit card statements, so I think she would 
have queried what those transactions were if she hadnt agreed to take the policy out at the 
point of sale. The evidence before me doesnt suggest she did. On balance, I think its most 
likely Mrs B chose to take the cover out knowing she could refuse it if she wanted to. 
As PPI was sold in an HSBC branch, Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means HSBC 
had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs B. To help me decide whether the cover was 
suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive 
also given careful thought to what weve been told about Mrs Bs personal circumstances at 
the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of Mrs Bs credit card balance 
would have been paid for up to 12 months for every month she was out of work because of 
redundancy or if she was off sick. Her balance would have been repaid in full in the 
unfortunate event of her death. 
I can see from the PPI questionnaire that it was stated on Mrs Bs behalf that she would 
have been entitled to sick pay from her employer for more than 12 months. That seems like 
an extraordinarily generous package from her employer. And it is at odds with a call note 
HSBC made when discussing the complaint with Mrs B. In that call note, HSBC says Mrs B 
told it she would have been entitled to 17 days full pay, and then statutory sick pay 
thereafter. That is more in line with what I would expect, and so I have relied on this in my 
consideration of her complaint. 
It follows then that the PPI would have lasted for longer than Mrs Bs sick pay, and I 
understand she didnt have any other means to fall back on to repay her credit card if she 
was off sick from work. Mrs B told HSBC she was entitled to statutory redundancy pay, so 
Im satisfied the PPI would have lasted for longer than her redundancy pay if she lost her 
job. On balance, I can see how the cover could have been helpful at what would have no 
doubt been a difficult time for Mrs B if she wasnt working. 
Those representing Mrs B told us she was treated for some oral abscesses in 1972, which 
was 33 years before the cover was sold. It was stated that she missed three months work because of this treatment. But I note she would have been a child at that time, so it is 
unclear to me how she could have missed work. In any event, the evidence doesnt suggest 
this condition persisted in 2005 and I cant reasonably say that a condition treated over 30 
years before the cover was sold rendered the PPI policy unsuitable for Mrs B. 
Several submissions were also made about what the representative understood to be 
limitations and restrictions in the policy around back and mental health conditions. Having 
considered the policy document, I cannot see there were any such restrictions and so I am 
satisfied this ground of complaint is misconceived. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs Bs circumstances that would have stopped her 
from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. So putting all of this together, I 
think HSBCs PPI recommendation probably was suitable.  
Even so, HSBC still had to give Mrs B enough information about the PPI so she could decide 
for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should have been clear, 
fair and not misleading. Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B as I concluded 
above, nor too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was most likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
could have been useful for her if something went wrong with her job. Because of this I dont 
think Mrs B would have declined the cover had HSBC given her more or better information 
about it.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.was there an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mrs B about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mrs B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because HSBC didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mrs B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: HSBC failed to tell Mrs B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that these 
things meant the policy was poor value and I should find that Mrs B wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had she known about the level of commission. It was further submitted that Mrs B 
should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipabout mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by HSBC not disclosing the high level of commission 
before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mrs B paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs B 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if HSBC had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that HSBCs offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it has 
not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman