DRN-3024208
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) didnt provide the services 
promised, or refund the fees paid, for a buildings warranty they bought from its appointed 
representative.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs T bought a latent defects buildings warranty for a self-build through 
BCRs appointed representative that I will refer to as C. The warranty was underwritten by an 
insurer I will refer to as A. In 2018, before the build was complete, A was declared bankrupt 
and all of its policies were terminated.
Mr and Mrs T contacted the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), who had 
agreed to refund As policyholders premiums. They received a refund of £1092, as that was 
the amount paid to A for the premiums. However Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this as 
theyd paid C an additional amount of around £2,400 for underwriting, risk management, site 
assessment and inspection fees. And theyd paid membership fees of £395.
They contacted C as they thought these fees should also be refunded. And they said theyd 
struggled to find a replacement warranty, the cheapest they found being over £7,000. They 
thought C should assist in finding a suitable replacement. 
C didnt agree to refund the additional amount paid or assist in finding a new warranty, so Mr 
and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service.
When we contacted BCR about the complaint, it said it didnt think this service had the 
authority to look into it. It said both it and C were acting as agents of A. And the activities C 
carried out werent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So didnt fall into our 
jurisdiction.
Our investigator thought we did have the authority to look into the complaint. He said he was 
satisfied that C was working as an appointed representative of BCR and that it was carrying 
out regulated activities. 
In relation to the complaint, the investigator didnt recommend it was upheld. He said the 
additional costs paid to C were all in order to arrange the warranty. And even though it 
hadnt carried out all the surveys, this was because A collapsed which wasnt the fault of C 
or BCR. He also thought C werent responsible for arranging a new warranty, so it hadnt 
acted unfairly by declining to do so. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with this and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like it. 
It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Ive considered this, and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find:
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO)
or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or
(b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and
(c) the activities were ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them.
So I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
I will therefore proceed to consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt.  
Here, Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that they paid over £2,000 to C for services that werent all 
carried out. And it hasnt refunded them for these services. Further, it hasnt assisted them in 
finding a replacement warranty. I need to decide if C got something wrong here. 
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right. 
Ive looked at the cost breakdown for the warranty and I can see that on top of the policy 
premiums, Mr and Mrs T paid additional amounts to C for the warranty, as follows:
£2487.12 for underwriting, risk management, site assessment and inspection fees.
£395.00 membership fee.
These costs were included as part of the overall price of the warranty. And the fees paid 
were in order for C to set up and arrange the warranty. If A hadnt collapsed, C would likely 
have carried out the surveys necessary. The only reason Mr and Mrs T didnt get the 
services they paid for is because A collapsed.The collapse of A caused its policyholders, including Mr and Mrs T, a great deal of 
inconvenience and financial loss. However C wasnt responsible for A collapsing. 
Mr and Mrs T paid for C to arrange a warranty, and this is what it did. So I cant say C did 
anything wrong here and therefore it wouldnt be fair to ask C to refund the fees paid.
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs T said about the surveys they paid for not being 
completed. They said only two out of the three required were carried out. I can understand 
why they think that because of this, they should get some money back. But even if C had 
carried out all three surveys, they would be in no better position than they are in today.  So I 
dont agree theyve lost out by C not carrying out all of the surveys. 
Each insurer requires its own surveys and inspections, with different criteria to ensure the 
build meets its own risk profile. This means any surveys completed by C at the time of the 
collapse wouldnt generally be transferrable to a different warranty, as they would have been 
specifically for the policy with A. So if C had carried out all the surveys Mr and Mrs T paid 
for, they would be of no value when A collapsed. Therefore while I can see Mr and Mrs T 
didnt get the services they were expecting and paid for, they would be in no better position if 
they had. So I dont agree that this means C should refund the money paid or that it should 
have carried out the third survey.
For these reasons I dont think C has done anything wrong, so I cant say it has acted 
unfairly by not refunding the fees paid. 
I also understand Mr and Mrs T will have to pay for a new warranty and this means paying 
an additional amount on top of what they have already paid. However neither C nor BCR are 
obliged to provide a replacement policy in the event of an insurer collapsing. So it hasnt 
acted unfairly by not offering a replacement warranty. 
Mr and Mrs T have also said that they think C acted irresponsibly by providing polices with 
A, as it was unrated. Weve asked BCR to provide evidence of the due diligence carried out 
before placing policies with A. And while Im not able to share details of these checks due to 
the information being commercially sensitive, Im satisfied that it met the requirements laid 
out by the regulator. And as the warranty was arranged some time before A collapsed, I 
dont think it could have reasonably foreseen that this would happen when it arranged cover. 
So I dont think C acted unreasonably by providing the policy with A.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman