DRN-4341643
The complaint
Mr M complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (trading as Monese) wont refund money 
he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr M is represented in this complaint by a claims management company, for simplicity I will 
refer to Mr M throughout this decision, even when referencing what his representatives have 
said on his behalf.
In November 2022 Mr M received a phone call from someone claiming to be working for the 
police. He was told that he and his wife owed tax in relation to their recent immigration into 
the UK. Mr M was told hed receive a call from the courts, who would help him sort out these 
issues, and did then receive a call that appeared to be from the phone number belonging to 
the court hed been told would be contacting him. Mr M was then told hed also need to pay 
additional fees, and that if he didnt pay the outstanding tax and fees, hed be arrested and 
face criminal prosecution.
Mr M believed he was speaking with an employee of HMRC and so he agreed to make a
payment. The first payment was attempted by Mrs M, Mr Ms wife, from her account with 
another bank, but her bank blocked that payment. So Mr M made the payment from his 
account instead, and went on to make another three payments  some of which were funded 
by transfers from Mrs M. In total he paid £8,750 to the scammers.  
At this stage, the scammers asked for further money, and Mr and Mrs M realised that 
something untoward was going on. They called the police, who told them they had been the 
victim of a scam.  
Mr M contacted PrePay to let it know and, after some delays, PrePay contacted the recipient 
bank to see if any funds remained, but did not receive a response. And, ultimately, PrePay 
didnt agree that it had any obligation to refund any money to Mr Ms account, it said the 
payments had not been unusual enough to trigger its fraud detection systems and that it had 
provided some warnings about potential scams.
Mr M was unhappy with this and so he referred a complaint to this service. At this stage 
PrePay reviewed what had happened and offered to pay Mr M £100 compensation to 
recognise the delays in dealing with his fraud claim, but it maintained that it did not think it 
was obliged to refund any of the money he lost, and that it would not have been able to 
recover any funds from the recipient bank.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, and they felt that PrePay should 
have realised by the third payment that something untoward might be going on and that 
Mr M could be at risk of financial harm. So, they felt PrePay should have contacted Mr M to 
ask questions about the payments before agreeing to process any more of them. The 
Investigator thought that, if this had been done, it would have come to light that Mr M had 
been targeted by a scammer.
The Investigator also considered whether Mr M should bear some responsibility for his loss.
The felt that there were inconsistencies in what Mr M saw and was being asked to do that 
should have flagged to him and Mrs M that something suspicious might be going on. So the 
Investigator found that Mr M should bear partial responsibility for the loss here, and 
recommended that PrePay refund 50% of the payments made from the third payment 
(inclusive) onwards, plus 8% interest.
PrePay accepted the Investigators findings, but Mr M disagreed. He said that the second 
payment was large enough that it should have been flagged as unusual by PrePay, and he 
did not agree that it was reasonable for him to share responsibility for the loss given his 
particular circumstances. 
As no agreement could be reached, this case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments. And the starting position is 
that Mr M is responsible for transactions hes carried out himself (even as a result of 
deception). However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider PrePay should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
With this in mind, PrePay therefore needed to be on the lookout for payments that were out 
of character and where there was a greater risk of fraud. 
The transactions on Mr Ms account were generally low value, but while the first two 
payments made to the scammer were fairly large in comparison to the usual account activity 
- £1,950 and £4,300  and were to a new payee, I dont think this alone was enough to flag 
to PrePay that something might be wrong. I appreciate that these amounts seem high, and 
they were the highest payments made in the previous few months, aside from transfers to 
Mr Ms savings, but overall I dont think they were high enough to flag as particularly  
unusual to PrePay. However, I agree with our investigator that by the time of the third 
payment, PrePay should have realised something untoward might be going on. By this stage Mr M had made multiple payments, over a short space of time, to a new payee, and this was 
not normal activity for Mr Ms account.
So I think that by the time Mr M had attempted to make this third payment in quick 
succession, PrePay ought to have realised that there was a risk that hed been targeted by a 
fraudster. And it should not have processed the third payment until it contacted Mr M to 
satisfy itself there was no risk of fraud. On balance, I think its likely that, if Mr M had been 
asked about this payment, PrePay wouldve been able to uncover that hed been targeted by 
a fraudster and so prevented him from making that payment or any of the following 
payments. 
I say this because Mr M doesnt appear to have been given any cover story by the 
scammers, so I think its likely hed have been honest about why he was making the 
payment if asked. And given that this type of scam is well known in the industry, I think 
PrePay would then have been in a position to explain the risk Mr M had been exposed to.
I do though agree with our Investigators finding that there were red flags here that should 
have caused Mr M (and Mrs M) to question the legitimacy of what they was being asked to 
do. For example, Mr M has said he used a professional relocation agent to organise his 
move to the UK, so I think it should have rung alarms for him that he was suddenly being 
asked to pay immigration taxes that his agent had not previously mentioned, I also think 
that it should have caused Mr M concern that a government agency was apparently using 
Whatsapp to correspond with him, rather than more official channels. And Mr M has told us 
the initial payment, attempted by Mrs M, was blocked by her bank. I think this also should 
have caused Mr and Mrs M concern. And, given how quickly they identified that this was a 
scam after they had made the payments, I think they could have done more  in light of 
these red flags  to ensure they were dealing with a legitimate request for payment. So, with 
all this in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to bear responsibility for 50% of the 
loss.
Lastly, I acknowledge that PrePay did delay in contacting the recipient bank to try and 
recover Mr Ms funds. But given that Ive seen evidence the funds were removed from the 
recipient account before Mr M uncovered the scam, I dont think this delay means he missed 
out on the opportunity to recover the funds. And Im satisfied that the £100 compensation 
PrePay has offered is reasonable compensation for the additional period of uncertainty and 
worry Mr M experienced as a result of the delay.
So, in summary, I consider that PrePay could have done more to prevent this fraud from the 
third payment made onwards, but find that Mr M should also bear some responsibility for the 
financial loss here. I therefore consider that PrePay should refund 50% of the payments 
made from the third payment onwards.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint PrePay should:
- Refund to Mr M 50% of the payments from the third payment onwards (inclusive)  
representing a refund of £1,250
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from 17 November 2022 to the date of settlement.
- Pay to Mr M the £100 compensation it has offeredMy final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. PrePay Technologies Limited (trading as Monese) should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman