DRN-1615352
The complaint
Mr M complains that Amigo Loans Ltd failed to set up a direct debit to collect a payment or 
give him its bank details, so he could transfer the payment to it. As a result, Mr M missed the 
loan payment that was due. He says that Amigo threatened and harassed him - and that it 
and its agents continued to contact him by phone and email after he had asked them not to. 
He also complains about the poor service from Amigo.
What happened
Mr Ms loan payment was due on 1 September 2019. On Friday 30 August, Mr M sent Amigo 
an email and unsuccessfully tried to phone Amigo so that a direct debit could be set up. He 
also says that he left a voicemail asking for its bank details so he could transfer the payment. 
But as they werent received, the payment wasnt made. Mr M thinks that payment should be 
written off.
Mr M complained and also asked for Amigo not to contact him by phone or email. Despite 
this he says he received phone calls, text messages and emails from Amigo and a third 
party acting on its behalf. Mr M says the contact was threatening and amounts to 
harassment. He also says that Amigo didn't reply to his complaint quickly enough.
Following some additional information from Amigo, I wrote to Mr M and explained that I could 
see that Amigo or its agents had made limited contact against his preferences. But I didnt 
consider that any compensation was fair in the circumstances of this case. Other than that I 
agree with the investigator that the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr M didnt accept what I said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the September payment
When Mr M contacted Amigo to request a direct debit its offices were closed. In any case, 
Im satisfied that it was too late at that point for a direct debit to be set up to collect 
Septembers payment. Amigo contacted Mr M on the first working day after his email. So I 
dont consider there was any mistake by Amigo in not setting up a direct debit.
Mr M says at the same time he also left a voicemail message for Amigo asking for its bank 
details. Amigo says it does not offer a voicemail facility. Mr M was unable to produce any 
evidence to support that a voicemail message was left. And if he had made a request for 
bank details, I might have expected it to be mentioned in the emails from Mr M that followed. 
But as far as I can see the first request from Mr M for Amigos bank details was on 21 
October 2019. So I dont consider that is the reason why the payment wasnt made on time.
Looking at everything we have, I dont consider Amigo has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
collecting the payment.contact
Amigo has provided evidence that it set your communications preferences for collections 
text, email and "letters via SMS" to no contact on 2 September 2019. Phone contact was set 
to "no" on 3 September 2019. So I can see that Amigo updated its contact preferences in a 
timely manner.
I asked Amigo for its phone records and also any third party it had instructed in respect of 
your account. Amigos own records show that it did not contact Mr M after 1 September 
2019. But the third partys records show that it unsuccessfully attempted to phone Mr M 
twice on 9 September 2019 - and that it spoke to him briefly on 10 September 2019.
That was obviously incorrect. Mr M had already told Amigo not to contact him by phone. So 
it shouldn't have passed his phone number to a third party. In saying that it was only two 
attempted calls and one call that got through. I can't agree that this amounted to 
harassment. But it clearly shouldn't have contacted Mr M.
I can also see that Amigo sent Mr M a text message asking for feedback in November 2019. 
Again it should have made sure it didn't contact Mr M at all by phone or text.
For the avoidance of any doubt I'm not intending to uphold a complaint about any contact Mr 
M received from Amigo in reply to any direct contact from him. It is reasonable for a business 
to reply by the same method it was contacted in the circumstances here - even bearing in 
mind Mr Ms contact preferences. I don't think the emails it sent were unreasonable.
I agree that Amigo contacted Mr M by phone and text message against his preferences. I 
note Mr M considers that Amigo or its agents contacted him considerably more than I have 
stated. But I can only make my decision on the evidence we have. I have been clear and 
asked Amigo to double check that it has given us all the relevant phone records. It is 
unfortunate Mr M is unable to obtain any evidence of the phone calls he received, he says 
due to the passage of time. But based on the evidence I do have I consider it less likely 
Amigo or its agents contacted Mr M by phone or text message more than set out above.
I need to decide what to do to put this right. It's clear Mr M was upset and inconvenienced by 
what happened. But most of that was due to the missed payment (that wasn't Amigo's fault) 
and legitimate action taken by Amigo. I am only looking at the impact on Mr M of two 
unsuccessful attempts to contact him, a short phone call and text message asking for 
feedback. I've taken into account Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter, that he asked 
not to be contacted in this way and the duration of the contact. After doing that and listening 
to what Mr M said, I don't think that the trouble and upset he experienced purely as a result 
of the errors made by Amigo I've set out would be enough for me to make an award of 
compensation.
other issues
Mr M has raised a number of other matters:
He says he has experienced difficulty accessing the online portal. But he has not said 
this was the reason the September payment wasnt made. And unfortunately, 
sometimes access to websites isnt available from time to time. But I dont see this 
has caused inconvenience that would warrant a compensation payment.
He had to wait 49 minutes for Amigo to answer the phone. Amigo has provided 
evidence that Mr M only had to wait six minutes. And even if Mr M had to wait 49 
minutes, it is sometimes a frustrating and annoying fact of life that we can't get through to businesses as quickly as we'd like. It doesnt mean that the business has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably though.
Amigo took a debit card payment on one pence without his authorisation. I dont see 
how Amigo would have had Mr Ms details unless he had given them to it. In any 
case, I understand the money was merely ringfenced and this was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account he agreed to. And Mr M hasnt suffered any 
financial loss.
Mr M hasnt been able to access his account recently. Amigo has explained this was 
because it couldnt send the password by text message because Mr M had been 
clear that his preference was for no emails. If this matter hasnt been resolved, Amigo 
should write to Mr M and tell him what he needs to do to access his account.
Amigo didnt respond to his complaint in a timely manner. I think that it did  and in 
any event as Im not upholding this complaint, I couldnt fairly uphold a complaint 
about the way the complaint has been handled. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman