DRN-2505329
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs T took out a mortgage in 1991. The mortgage deal they chose included 
Mortgage Protection Cover - this was what Nationwide called its PPI at the time. The PPI 
covered Mrs T only, and would have covered their monthly mortgage repayments in the 
event that Mrs T couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint on the basis that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to suggest that Nationwide had done enough to make Mr B and Mrs T 
aware that they may not have been able to make a claim on the policy in all circumstances. 
Our adjudicator felt it was unlikely that Mr B and Mrs T wouldve taken out the policy and 
mortgage if the exclusion for a pre-existing medical condition had been drawn to their 
attention. So he thought the complaint should be upheld.
Nationwide disagrees, and has raised a number of points in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. Ive been asked to decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The policy limitations meant that Mrs T wouldnt have been able to claim for absence from 
work as a result of a pre-existing medical condition. Nationwide doesnt dispute this. Instead 
it says that taking the PPI was a condition of Mr B and Mrs Ts mortgage. It also says the 
policy limitations, including the exclusion resulting from pre-existing medical conditions, 
wouldve been brought to Mr B and Mrs T's attention in various ways  although mainly in 
the policy documents and other written items Mr B and Mrs T were given at the time.
Nationwide goes on to say that if Mr B and Mrs T hadnt wanted this particular mortgage deal 
with compulsory PPI they couldve looked for a different mortgage. 
Theres nothing inherently wrong with Nationwide making PPI part of a mortgage offer  but 
it still has to show that it sold Mr B and Mrs T a policy that was suitable for Mrs T  or at the 
least drew their attention to any significant exclusions that might affect Mrs T. This would 
mean they could then decide if this mortgage  and the additional PPI  was one they 
wanted. I havent seen enough information to show how the policy limitation was explained 
to Mr B and Mrs T. 
It seems this mortgage was arranged at one of Nationwides branches and that they 
wouldve spoken to an advisor. I agree that seems likely, given its the way most mortgages 
were arranged at the time. Mr B and Mrs T say it wasnt explained that Mrs T would be 
unable to claim for anything resulting from her pre-existing medical condition. 
I accept that Nationwide most likely gave the policy leaflet to Mr B and Mrs T when they 
applied for their mortgage, and the policy document was sent to them later on. Nationwide 
says that the leaflet explained that claims resulting from pre-existing medical conditions 
werent covered  as wouldve also been explained by its representative. But, I dont know 
how or if the advisor wouldve explained that Mrs Ts health condition meant that shed have 
only limited benefits under the policy. And I cant be sure that Mr B and Mrs T did get these 
documents, given it was so long ago. Even if Mr B and Mrs T were given the leaflet and/or 
the policy document, my view is that it didnt sufficiently bring to Mr B and Mrs Ts attention 
the pre-existing medical condition exclusion. It was up to Nationwide as the seller to make 
the main policy limitations clear. As I cant see how it did this, I cant fairly say that 
Nationwide did do enough to explain that Mrs T wouldnt be covered for absence from work 
due to her medical condition. 
Ive thought carefully about what I think Mr B and Mrs T are likely to have done if theyd 
understood the full impact on them of the policy wording. Ive taken into account that 
Nationwide thinks Mrs Ts medical history is irrelevant because the PPI was compulsory  
and that there were other benefits available to her from the PPI.
But I think, given Mrs Ts ongoing and serious conditions that this is one of the main reasons 
why Mrs T might not be able to work. I also think concerns about Mrs Ts health wouldve 
been very much on Mr B and Mrs Ts minds when deciding to take on a major financial 
commitment. I think its likely that they wouldve wanted to avoid a mortgage which meant 
they had to pay for insurance that wouldnt have covered them for a condition they may 
reasonably have expected at the time to lead to Mrs T having to take time off work. 
I dont know whether they could have taken out the policy in Mr Bs name  or even jointly. 
But Nationwides records show that Mrs T had 100% of the benefit. 
Looking at their circumstances and what theyve told us, I havent seen enough information 
to be able to say either that Mr B and Mrs T understood the impact of the policy limitation on 
being able to claim or, if they had appreciated this, whether they wouldve chosen to arrange 
the cover differently. Looked at overall, I dont think its likely that Mr B and Mrs T wouldve 
wanted this mortgage with compulsory PPI if theyd realised theyd have to pay in full for a 
policy that offered Mrs T only limited benefits. Even though Mrs T wouldve been able to 
claim other benefits the policy offered, on balance, I think this policy limitation wouldve been 
enough to put Mr B and Mrs T off taking out this mortgage with this compulsory PPI. 
It follows that I think Nationwide should refund the PPI premiums they paid. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr B and Mrs T in the position they wouldve been in had they not 
taken out the policy. So, Nationwide should: 
Pay Mr B and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year. If Mr B and Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr B and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to 
compensate Mr B and Mrs T as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman