DRN-3485534
The complaint
Mr Q complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) when
he contacted it following a scam.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr Q was contacted by someone pretending to be from Santander.
They had hacked into the thread of genuine text messages from Santander which were on
his phone. They sent a message saying there had been an attempted fraud on his account.
Somebody called him and said he needed to move his money to a new account to protect it.
Mr Q believed that the communications were genuine and that he was speaking with
Santander. As a result, he transferred around £6,500 from his Santander accounts to
another account at Santander. He was told this new account was in his name, but it wasnt.
Mr Q called Santander to check the funds had arrived in the new account. At this point, he
discovered hed been the victim of a scam. He was extremely distressed. He said he would
kill himself and his family and that he felt like shooting himself.
Santander returned the funds to Mr Q in full the next day. But he wasnt happy with the way
it had dealt with the situation. He said that Santanders security had been breached,
enabling the fraud to take place. He was also very unhappy that no-one had been to check
on him after hed said he would harm himself.
Santander said its security hadnt been breached and that the scam wasnt caused by a
mistake on Santanders part. It said it has a duty of care when there are genuine concerns
for a customers safety. But that, even if it had contacted the Police, they wouldnt
necessarily have gone to check on Mr Q. It said that the distress Mr Q experienced wasnt
caused by Santander, so it didnt think it needed to do anything.
Mr Q wasnt happy with Santanders response and came to this service. I issued a 
provisional decision on 10 May 2022 indicating my intention to uphold the complaint. 
Santander accepted my recommendations. Mr Q responded and referred to a Direct Debit 
which was set up on his account in October or November 2021 without his knowledge. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Qs comments and I can assure him that Ive looked at everything he provided 
and listened to all the call recordings provided by Santander. Mr Q is unhappy about a Direct 
Debit which was set up on his account later in 2021. But that didnt form part of the complaint 
he made to Santander in November 2021, which was about the scam in September 2021 
and the way Santander dealt with it. Thats the complaint which was referred to this service 
and thats what Im making a decision about here. If there are other issues which Mr Q is 
unhappy about, he will need to put those to Santander so that it has the chance to respond.
In relation to this complaint, I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the 
appropriate outcome. So Im going to uphold it in the way I recommended in my provisional 
decision. My reasons are set out below.
I can appreciate how distressing it must have been for Mr Q to find out that he had been the
victim of fraud. Im pleased to see that his funds were returned to him in full the next day. Mr
Q says hes now wary and feels concerned about his account security. I think thats
understandable. But I havent seen anything to suggest that the fraud was due to any breach
in Santanders security or any fault on the part of the bank. So I dont find that Santander
was responsible for what happened or needs to do anything about that side of things.
Once Santander knew what had happened, it blocked the account where Mr Qs money had
been sent. That happened on the same day that Mr Q had transferred the money. The funds
were returned to Mr Q in full the next day. I dont find any fault with Santanders actions in
this respect, and Im pleased that Mr Q recovered his money.
But, turning to the customer service Mr Q received, I think that could have been better. Mr Q
says that Santander showed a lack of sympathy or concern for his wellbeing, even when he
talked about harming himself. Ive listened to the calls and my findings are below.
When Mr Q first called Santander, he didnt know hed been the victim of a scam  he was
just following up on earlier conversations which he thought had been with Santander. I
understand he had to wait on hold for around half an hour, then the agent couldnt find the
account details Mr Q had given her. At that point, Mr Q started to panic. The agent said she
would put him through to the fraud team. Mr Q became agitated and unhappy about being
put on hold again. He swore and said he was going to kill himself and his family. He ended
the call quite quickly after saying this, so I dont think there was much opportunity for the
agent to have done anything differently on this call.
An agent from Santanders fraud team then called Mr Q. I dont know how soon afterwards
this was. It was during this call that Mr Q was made aware that hed been the victim of a
scam. He didnt swear, shout or use abusive language during this call. The agent blocked
the new account during this call. There was an urgency to do that and she seems to have
been doing so and making notes whilst on the phone to Mr Q. I think that was reasonable
and its what Id expect to happen in the circumstances.
But the agent didnt seem sympathetic to Mr Q and I dont think she showed any
understanding of the distress he was experiencing at finding himself in this situation. She
talked over him when he was saying how worried he was and she didnt acknowledge his
concerns. At one point, Mr Q said oh please do something otherwise Im going to kill
myself and talked about how he had almost no money left in his account. The agent didnt
respond to that at all and just seems to have continued working in the background.
At the end of the call, Mr Q said I feel like shooting myself right now. The agent paused,
then said OK, is there anything else I can help you with?. Mr Q said no, but if they didnt
hear from him it would mean hed done something to himself. The agent paused and said
just let me see if I can speak to a manager regarding this. She put him on hold. When she
came back, she didnt refer to his state of mind or concerns at all. She just confirmed that the
new account had been blocked, but she didnt know if the money had already been taken out 
of it. She told Mr Q to call back in one or two days. Thats not the way Id have expected the 
agent to respond.
I dont think this call was well-handled from a customer service point of view. I would urge
Santander to listen to the call in full and consider whether it was handled in line with its
policies or whether there is any learning to be taken from it.Later, when Mr Q spoke to Santanders complaints handler, she pointed out that he had
shouted and sworn on the phone. She seemed to rely on that as the reason why Santander
hadnt reacted to his comments about harming himself. But Mr Q didnt shout or swear on
the call with the fraud department. So I dont think that explains the way Santander
responded to him on that call.
Santander says it has to know theres a genuine concern for a customers safety before it
does anything. I think thats reasonable. On listening to the calls, I cant say whether there
was a genuine or immediate concern here. But I dont see how Santander could have been
sure there wasnt. At times during the call, the agent didnt acknowledge Mr Qs comments.
She didnt ask him any questions, show sympathy or direct him to any sources of support. I
dont think telling him to report the fraud to the national reporting centre so that he could get
a reference number amounted to offering support to ensure he was okay.
In conclusion, I dont find that Santander was to blame for the scam. And it refunded Mr Qs
money. So it isnt responsible for the main source of his distress, which was the scam. But
Mr Q says that Santanders lack of sympathy and concern for his wellbeing added to his
distress. Having listened to the calls, I can understand his point of view.
Putting things right
I think Santander needs to do something to recognise the impact of this. I think it should pay
Mr Q compensation of £200 for the distress caused. I also think a written apology would be
appropriate. Ive referred to some specific parts of the call with the fraud department here,
but I would urge Santander to listen to the whole call and decide if there are any other points
it wants to address in the apology.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should:
pay compensation of £200 to Mr Q; and
send Mr Q a written apology.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman