DRN-2745532
The complaint
Miss T complains because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a claim for the cost of a flight 
to return to the UK under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to AXA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
What happened
Miss T held a travel insurance policy for backpackers, provided by AXA. 
Miss T was travelling abroad and was unsure when shed be returning home, so didnt have 
a pre-booked return flight. Unfortunately, while Miss T was away, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential international travel due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. A few days later, the FCO advised UK residents who 
were travelling abroad to return home. 
Miss T says she contacted AXA and was told shed be able to claim up to £1,500 towards 
flight costs. Miss T therefore booked a flight to return to the UK. This flight was subsequently 
cancelled, and the airline refunded Miss T the money shed paid. Miss T then booked 
another flight to the UK at a cost of £1,682.21. 
On her return to the UK, Miss T made a claim for the following with AXA:
unused campervan hire costs;
additional accommodation costs;
the £1,682.21 shed paid for her flight. 
AXA paid Miss Ts unused campervan hire costs and later paid for her additional 
accommodation costs. But AXA said Miss Ts claim for her flight wasnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of her insurance policy. 
Unhappy, Miss T complained to AXA before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think AXA had acted 
unfairly in declining Miss Ts claim for her flight. Miss T didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ts 
complaint. 
Miss Ts policy provides cover for trips which start and end at her home address. 
Section 1 of the terms and conditions of Miss Ts policy says, if a trip is cut short due to the 
FCO or other regulatory authority advising against all but essential travel, AXA will:
pay you up the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs
So, this section of Miss Ts policy only covers unused costs. Miss T didnt have an original 
return flight booked which was left unused, and she has received a refund from the airline for 
the cost of the first flight she booked after the FCO advised against all but essential travel. 
This means Miss T doesnt have any unused costs for AXA to pay under this section of her 
policy. 
Instead, Miss T is claiming for additional costs. But, even if Miss Ts policy did provide cover 
for additional costs, I dont think thered be valid claim for AXA to pay in circumstances 
where Miss T didnt have an original return flight to the UK booked. This is because Miss T 
would always had to have paid for a return flight to the UK at some point.
I accept that flight prices may have risen due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and 
Miss T may have been disadvantaged because of this. However, supply and demand for and 
availability of flights arent issues which are within AXAs control and I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask AXA to cover Miss Ts claim. 
Ive also considered the remaining sections of Miss Ts policy, but I dont think theres any 
cover for the circumstances she found herself in. I think its unlikely Miss T would have found 
travel insurance cover elsewhere on the market which provided cover for the cost of a return 
flight when she didnt already have an original return flight to the UK booked. 
I understand Miss T says AXA told her shed have cover of up to £1,500 for flights and that 
she booked her flight based on this information. I note Miss T booked the flight on the same 
day she says she spoke to AXA. Miss T does have £1,500 of cover for expenses in the 
event that a holiday is cut short in certain circumstances. But, like every insurance policy, 
this is subject to terms, conditions and exclusions and I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer 
to provide definitive confirmation of cover over the phone. Insurers will generally require 
additional information and documentation before confirming whether a claim will be paid. 
Miss T says she wouldnt have returned home were it not for the information AXA gave her, 
as she only had a limited amount of money and she borrowed the money to pay for her 
flight. However, having considered the difficulties Miss T experienced with campsites and the 
cost of additional accommodation abroad, I think its likely Miss T would have returned to the 
UK regardless.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss T but her policy doesnt cover the costs she is claiming for. 
While she may have been given incorrect information by AXA, which will no doubt have been 
distressing and frustrating at an already stressful time, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask AXA to pay this element of her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman