DRN-3344392
The complaint
Mr S, through a representative, has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He 
says that Barclays has not correctly applied some of the payments he has made to his 
current account. This means his overdraft balance is higher than it should be. He also says 
Barclays hasnt provided reasonable information about the payments made to the account. 
What happened
In 2013 Mr S transferred his current account from Barclays to another current account 
provider. The information I have been provided shows that Mr S had an outstanding 
overdraft balance of £5,605 in early 2014 on his Barclays account. 
I understand that Mr S had some financial difficulties and in 2014 he entered into a debt 
management plan. A third party has been making payments to Barclays, on Mr S behalf, to 
reduce the overdraft balance. This third party is also representing Mr S with his complaint. 
Following Mr S complaint Barclays provided information about the payments it had received. 
This showed that:
Mr S had paid a total of £795.64 to the Barclays account.
Some payments had been automatically redirected to Mr S new account as these 
payments did not contain the specific instruction Barclays needed to pay them into 
his Barclays account. So, these didnt go towards reducing his Barclays overdraft. 
As the account was no longer active, and subject to switching, Barclays says it would not 
default the account. And the information it has reported to the credit reference agencies was 
correct.
But, after some investigation, Barclays has said that it does seem likely that some of the 
cheque payments it has received may not have been credited to Mr S Barclays account or 
transferred away. It has offered to reduce Mr S overdraft balance by £731.07 because of 
this. It also offered to pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience these mistakes 
caused him. 
Following this investigation Mr S representative:
Agreed that the £713.07 repayments should have been added to Mr S Barclays 
account. 
It agreed to reissue payments to Barclays of £316.26 to account for some cheque 
payments that may not have been enchased by Barclays.
It also thought that a further £678.83 was unaccounted for and was paid to Barclays. 
But Mr S representative was unable to confirm this with its bank as the transactions 
were too old.
It thought that the compensation for distress and inconvenience was inadequate. 
And as Mr S was dissatisfied the complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the offer 
Barclays had made was a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Mr S representative didnt agree it said that: 
Barclays shouldve informed Mr S, or his representative, that it was not receiving 
payments. 
As Barclays has not properly allocated some of Mr S payments it shouldnt be 
assumed that it hasnt made any further errors. Its more likely that it has. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider.  
I can see that Barclays has asked Mr S to provided information about how much he thinks is 
unaccounted for. But this information has already been provided (as above) and so I havent 
delayed considering this case due to this information request. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays and Mr S representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably in relation to overdrafts. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in 
this decision.
It might be helpful to briefly talk about both parties to the complaints responsibilities here. 
Mr S is responsible for making the payments to Barclays to reduce his outstanding overdraft. 
And he, and his representative, should have used the correct process that would allow 
Barclays to credit them to his account rather than have them forwarded to his new account. 
Mr S, or his representative, should also check regularly that this has been done. 
And Barclays should ensure that it administers the payments it has received correctly to 
either reduce Mr S overdraft balance with Barclays or forward these to his new account if it 
is unclear where the money was intended for.  
Barclays has accepted that it may have made some errors here. And it has offered to credit 
Mr S account with the payments that it has received but has not allocated (the £713.07 
above). This seems reasonable for this part of the disputed money and Mr S representative 
has agreed with this.  
The crux of the ongoing dispute here is that Mr S representative feels that Mr S has paid 
further amounts to Barclays that it has not accounted for. It has provided its records of what 
this is. 
But I cant say for certain that Barclays received any further amounts. And this is partly due 
to the passage of time. Some of the transactions in question date as far back as 2014. And 
neither party to the complaint has adequate records to show the ultimate destination for 
these funds. 
And whilst Mr S representative has records that indicate further payments may have been 
received by Barclays, they dont show that Barclays didnt, for example, forward these to 
Mr S new account. And it may be, again for example, that some of the cheques that were 
sent went missing in the post. Its worth noting that Mr S representatives records show that some cheque payments were 
not cashed right from the start. And I dont think its fair to assume that Barclays made a 
mistake with these transactions, just because it made errors later on. Its not clear to me 
what action Mr S or his representative took to look into this at the time, if anything. 
So, I cant say with any degree of certainty what happened here. And, in the absence of any 
further evidence about these transactions I dont think I can reasonably say that Barclays 
should credit Mr S account with any further backdated transaction. 
And similarly, Ive not had sight of Mr S credit report (or similar) but I understand that 
Barclays is reporting the overdraft with the payments it has credited to it. Without any further 
evidence to say this is incorrect I also dont think I can say Barclays has done anything 
wrong here. 
And Im sure this has been frustrating for Mr S, but Barclays has made an offer to pay 
compensation on the basis of the mistakes it has made. And this seems reasonable. So, I 
also think its offer to pay compensation of £200 for these frustrations is reasonable. 
Fair compensation  what Barclays needs to do to put things right for Mr S
If Mr S accepts this decision then Barclays should, as it has offered to do:
Ensure Mr S Barclays account is credited with £713.07. 
Pay directly to Mr S £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Barclays should pay the 
compensation it has offered if Mr S accepts the decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman