DRN-3326480
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor
insurance policy twice. He also doesnt agree with the amount hes been charged for the
policies.
What happened
Mr A took out a policy with Admiral in September 2018. Not long after the policy started
Admiral asked for some documentation to verify his policy. Mr A provided the information
asked for, but his policy was then incorrectly cancelled.
Admiral apologised for this and reinstated Mr As policy in December 2018. When Mr As
policy was incorrectly cancelled, the refund of premium and cancellation fee were then 
applied to Mr As reinstated policy. However, there were some payment issues with the 
reinstated policy, and it was then cancelled again in February 2019. Because of this Mr A 
decided to buy a new policy elsewhere and complained to Admiral. He said Admiral 
shouldnt have incorrectly cancelled his policy twice and that Admiral hasnt been accurate 
when stating the amount hes paid. He also said hes incurred additional costs with taxis 
while his policy was cancelled, as he couldnt afford to get insurance until couple of weeks 
later.
Admiral looked into the complaint and apologised for the first policy cancelling incorrectly. It
said it had offered a letter of indemnity to Mr A for the time he was driving without insurance
and had written off around £380 to compensate him for the errors. Admiral also offered £30
distress and inconvenience but Mr A asked Admiral to pay it to a charity. Mr A didnt think
Admiral had done enough and brought his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 January 2022 where I said:
Its not in dispute that the first cancellation was done in error, so I wont revisit that here.
Admiral said the second cancellation occurred because Mr A missed two payments for his
policy and therefore it could cancel his policy.
I can see Admiral said there were some issues with collecting payments from Mr A.
However, I can also see that Admiral has made some errors with the payments Mr A made,
such as giving in consistent figures for what hes paid. Also, considering his policy was
cancelled incorrectly it would appear the payments were only messed up because Admiral
incorrectly cancelled the first policy caus[ing] Mr As regular payments to not be taken when
they should. Im therefore not persuaded the second cancellation is fair and reasonable
either.
Ive also looked at what Mr A has paid and what he should have paid to see if Admiral has
treated him fairly. When asked what Mr A had paid and what he should have been charged
Admiral confirmed that Mr As total premium for his motor and home insurance policy was
£4,092.52. It said for the time Mr A had his motor and home insurance policy, the total
charge for the time on risk is £766.73.
Admiral said Mr A made three payments for his home and motor policies. One on 26
September 2018 for £349.44, a second on 24 November 2018 for £308.23 and a third on 16
February 2019 for £523.38. It would therefore appear Mr A has paid Admiral a total of
£1,181.05. Admiral has shown its refunded Mr A £125.04 which means Mr A has paid
£1,056.01 to Admiral. However, when calculating what Mr A owes, Admiral said hes only
paid £415.79. Its unclear where this figure has come from and considering Admiral has
provided dates for the three payments, Im more persuaded those are correct.
Considering Admiral said the total charge for his time on cover is £766.73 and Mr A has paid
£1,056.01. It would appear from Admirals figures that hes over paid by £289.28. Therefore,
Admiral should refund this amount to him. Furthermore, I note that Admiral said it had written
off £255, but in this calculation, it had used the lower payment total of £415.79. So, Im not
persuaded Mr A has actually received that compensation. Im satisfied £255 is a fair and
reasonable amount to compensate Mr A for Admirals errors. Admiral therefore also needs to
pay Mr A £255 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused.
Ive considered Mr As points about having to get taxis, however Ive not seen enough to
persuade me he wasnt able to get another policy for a couple of weeks because of the cost.
Particularly when his replacement policy was cheaper than his one with Admiral. It follows
therefore that Im not going to tell Admiral to cover his taxi costs.
Mr A responded and said he hadnt got other insurance quickly as hed been advised that a 
policy can cost more when buying it close to the date the cover starts. And its for this reason 
he had to get taxis. He also said he had told his current insurer about Admiral cancelling his 
policy as hed been required to declare any cancelled policies. 
Admiral disagreed and said the previous figures given were just for the time it reinstated Mr 
As policy. Admiral also provided a break down of figures to evidence what Mr As policy 
cost. I asked our investigator to respond and clarify the figures, as it wasnt clear exactly 
what they were showing. I asked Admiral to provide a total cost for the policies it had 
provided cover for, and the total amount Mr A had paid for these policies. Admiral responded 
and provided some explanation as to what the figures were showing but didnt provide a total 
cost for the policies it provided. I asked our investigator to ask Admiral again for the total 
charge for Mr As policies as this still hadnt been provided. 
I also asked our investigator to clarify that  Admiral would also need to provide a letter to Mr 
A confirming that both policies were cancelled due to its  error and therefore it would also 
need to remove the cancellation records from internal and external databases, as I hadnt 
been persuaded the second cancellation was fair either.  
Admiral didnt provide the information asked for by the date requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As response to my provisional decision and Im not persuaded to change 
my decision. I say this because it was his choice to wait to obtain a cheaper quote. Ive also 
not been provided with anything to show Mr A couldnt get insurance for a couple of weeks 
because of the price. Im therefore not going to tell Admiral to do any more. 
Ive also considered Admirals response. While Admiral has provided some other figures and 
said its previous calculations were wrong. It still hasnt been able to confirm the total amount 
Mr A should have paid for his policies. I therefore think it produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint to use the figures given in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr A £289.28 to cover what he overpaid for his policy
Pay Mr A £255 for distress and inconvenience
Provide Mr A with a letter of indemnity for the periods he was driving without 
insurance, if not already provided
Remove any record of both cancellations from internal and external databases 
Provide Mr A with a letter to say both cancellations werent his fault
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman