DRN-3556311
The complaint
The administrator of Mr Hs estate isnt happy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) dealt with the renewal of Mr Hs homecare policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a homecare policy with British Gas. The policy renewed annually between 
2016 and 2019 with Mr H paying by monthly direct debit. 
Following Mr Hs death in 2019, the administrator of Mr Hs estate reviewed his homecare 
policy and made a complaint to British Gas. She thought that Mr H had been overcharged at 
each renewal as the cost of the policy had increased each year and that Mr H would have 
paid less had he been a new customer. She also said that discounts British Gas offered to 
customers were not properly highlighted in the renewal letters and so Mr H had not taken 
advantage of them as she believed he would.
British Gas say that it sent Mr H renewal letters each year which detailed the current price 
and the new price payable at renewal. It highlighted any discounts that were available and 
that since 2018 it also highlighted that cheaper cover may be obtained elsewhere. British 
Gas say that discounts offered at renewal are discretionary and so are not usually added 
automatically  they need to be applied for. It says that customers are encouraged to make 
contact to discuss their renewal if necessary. It said that it followed its standard pricing 
model at each renewal and that Mr H was treated fairly.
The administrator didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt think that British Gas had done anything wrong. She 
didnt think Mr H had been treated differently to any other policyholder in relation to the 
renewal price he paid, and that the customer discounts were highlighted clearly in the 
renewal notices sent to him. 
The administrator accepted our investigators decision in relation to the price of the policy but 
asked that an ombudsman consider the issue of the discounts offered at renewal. She didnt 
think that British Gas adequately notified Mr H of changes to the direct debit discount or 
made the annual direct debit and energy customer discounts clear to Mr H. She thought that 
Mr H had paid more for his policy as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the administrator that Ive looked carefully at all the renewal 
documents. I know she is concerned that her scanned copies dont show the true colour of 
the highlighted boxes, but Ive also seen emailed copies of the documents sent to us by 
British Gas.  
Insurers are required to provide customers with sufficient clear information so that they can 
make an informed choice about renewing their policy. This includes information on price. It 
isnt for me to tell British Gas how to provide this information, but I can consider whether it 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it provides this information to its customers. 
2016/17 renewal
In 2016/17 Mr Hs renewal letter quotes the renewal price and a £6 direct debit discount. The 
administrators concern is that a separate £12 discount for customers who also have their 
energy supply with British Gas isnt adequately highlighted as it appears on a different page 
headed What another year of cover will give you. She says this implies that all discounts 
have already been applied and that Mr H may not have felt it necessary to read this page in 
full.
Ive looked carefully at the renewal letter, and I think its clear. I appreciate that the renewal 
price and direct debit discount are on page three, but this page is headed How your 
payments are broken down so I dont think the new discount would be any better included 
here. The new discount is on page 2 in a separate box headed in large letters Energy 
Customer Discount. It says clearly underneath Dont miss out on your discount  claim it in 
a click. It also provides a telephone number for customers who prefer to call. Customers are 
advised to register by a certain date and I think its clear that they need to take action to 
claim the discount. I cant see that the letter implies that all discounts have already been 
included and I think it would be fair to expect customers to read information provided  
particularly if its highlighted.
2017/18 and 2018/19 renewals 
Ive dealt with these together as the renewal letters are similar. The administrator is 
concerned that the discount was not applied automatically as the monthly direct debit 
discount was, and that it should have been made clear that customers needed to take action 
to claim it.
Ive read the letters carefully and I note that their layout is different to the previous year. The 
renewal price and monthly direct debit discount is detailed on page three and directly 
underneath is a bright blue highlighted box entitled Your discounts and offers. This refers to 
the £12 energy customer discount and tells customers that they have to register to get it. I 
understand that Mr Hs monthly direct debit discount appears to have been applied 
automatically and that he was now being asked to apply for the energy customer discount, 
but I dont think this is unreasonable in itself. The monthly direct debit discount will have 
been carried over from the first year it was set up and British Gas say that new discounts 
have to be applied for separately. Whats important is whether Mr H was provided with 
enough clear information to make a choice about whether to apply  and I think that he was. 
This information was highlighted in a separate differently coloured box and I think British Gas 
did enough to draw attention to it. 
2019/20 renewal
In 2019 the monthly direct debit and energy customer discounts stopped, and British Gas 
introduced a new single discount of £12 if payment was made by annual direct debit. The 
administrator says that these changes should have been clearly mentioned and that the 
cheaper price option with the £12 discount should have been offered as well. She also 
believes that the box containing the relevant information is heavily shaded and difficult to 
read. 
The information about the discounts is again provided in a bright blue box underneath the 
renewal price breakdown. If Mr H were to obtain the £12 discount, he would have needed to change the way he paid for his policy. He would have had to set up a yearly direct debit 
rather than pay monthly  and so the discount could not have been applied automatically. 
Not all customers would want to set up a yearly direct debit, and so I dont think it 
unreasonable for British Gas not to provide a specific price with this discount included. What 
it needed to do was provide Mr H with the information he needed to decide whether to apply 
for the discount. Whilst it may have been better to tell Mr H on page one that his monthly 
direct debit discount was ending, I think British Gas did enough by highlighting it in the 
coloured box on page three. In the same box it also clearly explained what action Mr H 
needed to take to get the new yearly discount. If this information had been included in the 
white box above, I think it may have risked being overlooked.
Ive also considered the point raised by the administrator that the blue shaded boxes were 
difficult to read. Ive seen both scanned and emailed copies of the documents and, although 
I cant say how Mr H would have viewed them, I think the information is clear enough. 
I know that my decision will come as a disappointment to the administrator and that she feels 
strongly that Mr H would have taken advantage of all discounts available to him. However, 
bearing all the above in mind, I think British Gas did enough to highlight the discounts and 
changes and I cant say that it has acted unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman