DRN-4211976
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his account. Hes also 
unhappy that Barclays havent provided him with an explanation for why it no longer wanted 
him as a customer. He says this caused him unnecessary stress and worry for which he 
should be compensated.
What happened
Mr Z had an account with Barclays. In November 2022, Barclays applied blocks to his 
account and reviewed how Mr Z was operating his account. Whilst it did this Barclays 
removed the funds in Mr Zs account and showed the account as to reconcile. 
Mr Z discovered that he was unable to use his account when he tried to log on to his internet 
banking.  Mr Z contacted Barclays to try and find out what was happening with his account 
and where his money had gone. Barclays told Mr Z that it had placed his account under 
review. But wouldnt give Mr Z much information. Barclays completed its review on 1 
December 2022, removed the block and released Mr Zs balance back to Mr Zs account. 
Barclays subsequently decided to close Mr Zs account immediately and wrote to him on 8 
December 2022 to let him know hed need make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr Z complained to Barclays. He explained that the banks actions had caused him a great 
deal of stress and that his family relied on him to provide for them. He said he had to borrow 
money from others to pay for everyday expenses and that Barclays treated him 
disrespectfully. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and had blocked 
and reviewed Mr Zs account in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
However, Barclays said that it had made a mistake when it closed Mr Zs account 
immediately and should have given Mr B two months notice that it was closing his account. 
Barclays apologised and offered Mr Z £200 compensation for the trouble and upset this had 
caused him.
Mr Z didnt accept Barclays offer and asked us to investigate his complaint. He said the 
block on his account and lack of access to his funds caused him a lot of problems. He said 
he wasnt able to provide for his family financially. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation about why it blocked his account and why it doesnt want him to bank with them 
anymore. He explained that the banks actions made him feel disrespected and he doesnt 
want Barclays to do the same thing to other customers. He says he found the overall 
experience very upsetting and that the staff responsible should be held to account for their 
actions.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Zs complaint. She said whilst she appreciated 
Barclays actions had caused Mr Z trouble and upset, she thought Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong when it blocked and reviewed Mr Zs account. And that it had completed 
things quickly. She also said that Barclays was entitled to close Mr Zs account, and she 
thought that the compensation it had offered was fair and reasonable. So, she said Barclays 
had done enough to put things right. 
Mr Z disagreed. He said he wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation for its actions. 
He said that the compensation offered doesnt consider the amount of pain and suffering the 
banks actions caused him or the impact of the negligence of the staff involved.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr Z, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Mr Z feels Barclays should have told him that his account was being reviewed and explained 
why his account was blocked  instead of Mr Z discovering his account was blocked when 
he tried log in to his account. Hes also said that his attempts to find out what was what 
happening with his account made him feel disrespected because the bank wouldnt tell him 
anything  so he was left in the dark. 
Ive no doubt it wouldve come as quite a shock to Mr Z to see that money had been 
removed from his account to reconcile. But as the investigator has already explained, 
Barclays has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing 
account services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Having reviewed all the evidence Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it restricted Mr Zs account. I appreciate that Mr Z wants to 
know more about why Barclays did what it did. But Barclays isnt obliged to tell Mr Z why it 
blocked and reviewed his account, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so as much as hed like to know. 
Looking at the terms of the account they also permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. 
So, although I understand not having access to his account caused Mr Z trouble and upset it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr Z compensation since I dont believe Barclays 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked Mr Zs account.  
Whilst Barclays are entitled to restrict a customers account, Id expect them to do so in 
timely manner. Mr Zs account was blocked on 23 November 2022 and the review was 
completed on 1 December 2022. Given everything Ive seen I cant say there were any 
undue delays. So, Im satisfied that Barclays completed its review of Mr Zs account in a 
timely manner.
Ive next gone on to consider whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr Zs account. 
Its generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. As long 
as they reach their decisions about that in a fair and legitimate manner.It seems Mr Z understands and accepts this point. But he wants to know why Barclays wont 
provide him with banking services. I appreciate that Mr Z says that he finds this quite 
insulting and disrespectful  it cant be pleasant being told you are no longer wanted as a 
customer. But Barclays isnt required to give a reason for closing an account. So, I cant say 
Barclays has done anything wrong by not giving Mr Z this information, as much as hed like 
to know.
Barclays can close accounts in certain circumstances, and it sets this out in the terms and 
conditions. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Zs account and they state that the 
bank can close an account immediately  or give notice of at least two months. Barclays 
accepts that is shouldnt have closed Mr Zs account immediately and that it should have 
given him its full notice period of at least two months. Ive looked at the information regarding 
the reasons behind Barclays decision to close Mr Zs account. And I agree that it should 
have provided Mr Z with more notice. However, Im satisfied overall, that the bank had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr Zs account. So, I wont be asking Barclays to reopen his 
account.
I know Mr Z is upset that Barclays closed his account at all -  regardless of how much notice 
he was given. I can appreciate finding out that his account was being closed immediately 
would have come as a shock to Mr Z  especially as just a few days before he received the 
notice to close letter from the bank, he was under the impression that following the banks 
review his account was back to normal. So, finding out within a week that this wasnt the 
case would have no doubt been upsetting for Mr Z.
 
Barclays has apologised and offered Mr Z £200 compensation for any trouble and upset the 
lack of notice caused him. Mr Z wants more compensation and has explained that he wants 
to prevent what happened to him happening to other customers. He also wants 
compensation for the negligence of the staff responsible for closing his account.
Ive considered what Mr Z has said about how Barclays actions impacted him and Ive not 
doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. I should make clear that whilst I take 
on board Mr Zs comments about other customers, I am only concerned with the facts of this 
complaint.  I also want to explain that there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Barclays 
actions have had on Mr Z and decide within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I agree compensation is appropriate. I say this because 
due to the lack of notice Mr Z had to quickly rearrange his standing orders and direct debits, 
which would have been inconvenient and time consuming. Barclays has recognised this and 
offered Mr Z £200 compensation. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount of compensation and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr Z was caused. And I wont be directing Barclays to 
pay Mr Z more compensation. In reaching this conclusion Ive also kept in mind that Mr Z 
had at least one other bank account he could use. So, I think the impact of the immediate 
closure would have been minimised. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Barclays has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things 
right. So, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more to resolve Mr Zs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr Z £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman