DRN-4222074
The complaint
Miss S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave her a 
credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 24 February 2018, Miss Ss credit card was opened by Capital One with an initial credit 
limit of £500. This credit limit was increased in September 2018 to £1500 and in July 2019 to 
£2,500.
In 2022, Miss S complained to Capital One to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a better effort 
to understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ss complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it used, among other things, a credit reference agency to determine 
the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending, as well as the 
information it had on how Miss S was managing her account. Its possible that Capital One 
failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss S with credit. But even if thats true, I 
dont think better enquiries would have caused Capital One to think the initial credit limit or 
the increases were unaffordable.
I say this because at the point that she applied for the credit card Miss S told Capital One 
that whilst she was in receipt of income of £13,000 a year. The initial credit limit was modest 
and the maximum monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest and up to the 
credit increases Miss S was not using anywhere near the credit limits.
And there was nothing from the credit reference agency that made the credit automatically 
unreasonable or that would have put Capital One off supplying either the credit or the credit 
increase had they known about them at the time. Miss S has supplied a copy of her credit 
report which is devoid of any adverse credit information about her. When I say that I note 
that Miss S seems to have had no immediate history of arrears, CCJs, defaults or 
bankruptcies on her accounts. And that includes her banking accounts. So, it would have 
seemed to Capital One that Miss S was affording her existing credit. 
So, I do not think that Capital One would have been put on notice to look more closely at 
Miss Ss expenditure before agreeing to the credit of the credit limit increases.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks would have led Capital One to think 
that the credit it provided Miss S was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way 
Miss S was managing her account or what Capital One could see of her management of 
other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.
I know that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss S to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
