DRN-3555676
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by NIIB Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge).
What happened
In February 2020 Mr D acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. 
In March 2020 Mr D experienced an issue with the brakes in wet weather, where they 
slowed the car down without warning. Due to Coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdowns, repairs 
werent completed on Mr Ds car immediately, and he continued to drive it with the issue 
present. 
In June 2020 the car was inspected, and the cause of the fault was traced to a leak in the 
coolant system, which was repaired. 
Mr D said he had to fill the coolant on a monthly basis between July 2020 and January 2021. 
But, as he wasnt using the car much due to Covid-19 restrictions during this time, he didnt 
report this. 
Mr D reported the problems to the dealership in January 2021, and in February 2021 the 
cylinder head was replaced. The manufacturer that completed this work said although there 
were two problems with the coolant system, they were on opposite sides of the engine and 
not related. 
Mr D said he tried to sell the car in February 2021 and found that a pipe to the engine wasnt 
connected. The manufacturers garage secured the air intake pipe but reported that this had 
previously been secured with a sticky material and would need replacing if it detached in the 
future as it was broken. 
Mr D complained to Northridge about the quality of the vehicle in February 2021. As he didnt 
receive a response to his complaint, he brought his complaint to this service for investigation 
in April 2021. 
Northridge sent Mr D their final response to his complaint in April 2021. They said the first 
two issues with the coolant system were unrelated and had been repaired, and as the car 
passed an MOT on 25 February 2021, they thought it was of satisfactory quality. They said 
repairs had been completed and they werent aware of any failure of those repairs, but they 
would consider any report Mr D wanted to provide about the condition of the car. They also 
said Mr D could sell his vehicle and gave him a preferential settlement figure which reduced 
the amount hed need to pay to end the finance agreement. 
Mr D sold his vehicle and cleared the finance with Northridge in December 2021. 
Our investigator gave his view that he thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality as the 
first fault was present or developing at the point of sale. He said Northridge had one chance 
to repair this fault, but it occurred again. So, all things being equal, he wouldve 
recommended that Mr D be given his final right to reject the vehicle. However, because Mr D 
had sold the vehicle and exited the agreement, this was no longer an option. 
He said if Mr D hadnt sold the car, hed be asking Northridge to refund around £1,000 to 
Mr D, made up of; about £400 for impaired use of the vehicle, £379.38 for the time he was 
without the vehicle during repairs, and £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
But, because Northridge had provided a preferential settlement figure to Mr D, hed benefited 
by a reduction in the amount he paid under the agreement by about £1,700, so as 
Northridge had already done more than our investigator would have asked them to, he didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said the interest wouldve been removed from the remainder of the 
agreement term regardless, so he wouldve only benefited by around £500 if hed taken the 
preferential settlement figure at the time. He also said he was forced to sell the vehicle 
because of the time taken to resolve the case, he had a semi working car for a long period of 
time, and the situation has had a detrimental impact on his health for over two years. 
Our investigator asked Northridge for further information on how the agreement was settled. 
They said Mr D didnt ask them to provide another preferential settlement figure, so he 
received a standard settlement figure when he sold the car at the end of 2021. They also 
said they thought that if the car was of unsatisfactory quality, the dealership he sold it to 
wouldnt have bought it. 
Our investigator gave their view that Mr D hadnt received any benefit when he sold his car, 
so Northridge should do something to put right the satisfactory quality point. 
He recommended that Northridge refund Mr Ds monthly payments for June 2020 and 
January 2021 as he was without the vehicle for most of these months due to repairs. He also 
thought Northridge should refund 10% of Mr Ds monthly payments for the reminder of the 
agreement between February 2020 and November 2021, excluding the two months to be 
fully refunded, to reflect that the car wasnt performing as it shouldve been for the majority of 
the time. Finally, he recommended that Northridge pay Mr D £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience. 
Northridge didnt agree. They said Mr D didnt contact them until February 2021, so they 
didnt know about the earlier repair. They said the car passed an MOT in February 2021, so 
it couldnt have been defective, or it wouldnt have passed. Northridge said no qualified 
person had deemed the vehicle to be of unsatisfactory quality and no dealership would pay 
for a defective car. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Northridge as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety, and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £8,600. It was six years old and 
had travelled around 64,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a used car 
like Mr D, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a new or 
younger/lower mileage used car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of 
the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, 
is higher. 
Mr D experienced a problem with the car relatively soon after acquiring it, where the braking 
system wasnt working correctly. The fault was traced to a leak in the cooling system. Given 
the severity of the fault, and the cost to repair it, I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect this to happen so soon after acquiring a car, even one of this age and mileage. The 
fault occurred within 30 days of Mr D acquiring the vehicle, so its assumed to have been 
there at the point of supply.
With this in mind, Im satisfied that this fault made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality.  
The CRA sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not to be of 
satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the goods. 
The vehicle was returned to the dealership, who then arranged for a manufacturer garage to 
complete the repair. This appears to have been successful, and Im satisfied that the vehicle 
was returned to a satisfactory condition following this repair.
Mr D experienced some problems with the coolant system after the first repair, and this was 
traced to a separate part of the system. The manufacturers garage said that the faults 
werent linked. So, Im satisfied this wasnt as a result of a failed repair. 
Leaks and damage to seals and gaskets in the cooling system arent unusual for a vehicle of 
this age and mileage, these are repairs that I think a reasonable person might expect to 
need to make on a car of this age and mileage. So, I dont think the second fault made the 
vehicle of unsatisfactory quality. Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of 
owning an older and higher mileage second-hand car like this one. 
So, Northridge werent responsible for the second repair to the vehicle, and Mr D had no 
right to a remedy under the CRA as a result. 
Mr D had a further repair carried out to a loose pipe. There was a suggestion that a poor 
repair had been carried out to this part prior to the car being supplied to Mr D. But I havent 
seen any evidence that any previous repair wasnt long lasting. It was noted by the 
manufacturer as having been seen at their two previous inspections of the vehicle, in June 
2020 and February 2021. 
The manufacturer garage that repaired this part also said it would only need replacing if it 
came loose again. So, Im satisfied that the repairs completed to this part were satisfactory. 
The risk of acquiring an older, used vehicle like Mr Ds is that it might have needed repairs in 
the past, and I think a reasonable person would expect some relatively serious repairs might 
have taken place to a vehicle of this age and mileage. All things considered; I dont think this fault made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Mr D. 
Mr D had suggested that there was still a problem with the braking system, but I havent 
seen any evidence to support this. The vehicle passed an MOT in February 2021 and 2022 
after it was sold. Mr D was also able to sell the vehicle to a dealership, which I think would 
be unlikely if it was suffering from a fault at the time. 
As Mr D accepted repair of the vehicle, and it was returned to a satisfactory condition, he no 
longer had a right to reject it. Mr D hasnt paid for the repairs, theyve all been free of charge 
for him, so theres no cost for me to consider here. 
Mr D was without a vehicle whilst the repairs were completed, for the majority of June 2020 
and some of January 2021. 
As I think the first fault made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality, and Mr D wasnt kept 
mobile during these repairs, Northridge should refund 100% of Mr Ds monthly payment for 
June 2020, plus interest. 
Mr D continued to use the vehicle between March 2020 when he first experienced the fault, 
and June 2020 when it was repaired. I appreciate that Northridge werent able to arrange for 
repairs any earlier than this because of Covid-19 restrictions, but Mr D had to use a vehicle 
that wasnt performing as it should. So, Northridge should reimburse Mr D for 10% of his 
monthly payments from March 2020 to May 2020 to reflect this impaired use, plus interest.
Mr D was also without the vehicle for a period during the repairs in February 2021. As I dont 
think this fault made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality, I dont think Northridge are 
responsible for these costs.  
Northridge offered Mr D a preferential settlement figure in April 2021. They said it was valid 
until Mr Ds next monthly payment, and if he needed another, he should call them. 
Mr D said when he asked for another preferential settlement figure there was no note of this 
on his account, so he didnt benefit from this when he sold the car. Northridge said Mr D 
didnt contact them for a preferential settlement figure. 
When Mr D complained to Northridge, they offered the preferential settlement figure as a 
gesture of goodwill. It wasnt a contractual obligation, nor something they needed to leave 
open indefinitely. So, I dont think Northridge did anything wrong in presenting the standard 
settlement figure to Mr D. He accepted this and the dealership he sold the car to agreed to 
meet the settlement figure. 
Our investigator recommended that Northridge pay Mr D £300 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr D has been put to distress and inconvenience in having to have the fault identified and 
taking his car for a number of repairs. But I dont agree that this was as severe, as I dont 
think Mr D had a right to reject the vehicle. Overall, I think £150 fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr D. 
Mr D responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing further to add. 
Northridge responded to my provisional decision to say they accepted it.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, for 
the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and NIIB Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance must:
Refund Mr Ds monthly payment for March 2020, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund 10% of Mr Ds monthly payments from March to May 2020, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Northridge considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman