DRN-1301901
Miss L is unhappy that the Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) wont refund a series of 
transactions on her account that she says were fraudulent.
Background
Miss L had an account with RBS. Between 2016 and 2018, Miss L says there were multiple 
transactions that took place on her account that were not carried out by her. 
She complained to RBS who refused to refund the payments. They said that each payment 
had been made using Miss Ls genuine card and PIN. Miss L said that her card had been 
with her the whole time and that she hadnt shared her PIN with anyone or written it down. 
RBS said it didnt think it was plausible for someone to have used her card without her 
knowledge or consent during this period and so has treated these transactions as having 
been authorised by Miss L.
Miss L was unhappy with RBSs response and so she referred the complaint to this service. 
It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator agreed with RBS 
that there wasnt a plausible explanation as to how Miss Ls card had ended up in the hands 
of a fraudster without her knowledge nor how they couldve known her PIN. The investigator 
also noted that the pattern of use on Miss Ls card suggested it hadnt been taken by a 
fraudster. Wed typically expect a fraudster to try to remove as much money as possible from 
their victims account before being detected. 
Miss L disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Ive come to 
thesame conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic position is that RBS can hold Miss L liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. For each 
transaction, RBS has been able to provide evidence showing that Miss Ls genuine card was 
used, the chip was read and the PIN entered correctly. But that isnt enough to hold Miss L 
liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests she consented to these 
transactions.
Miss L says that the card was in her possession throughout, but the evidence provided by 
RBS shows it was used to carry out the disputed payments. Its unlikely that anyone couldve 
taken her card to carry out these transactions and then return it before she noticed it was 
missing. The risk of being found out would be particularly high given the number of 
payments that Miss L is disputing and the very short periods of time between legitimate 
payments and the ones she says werent made by her. If anyone had attempted this, I think 
its likely Miss L wouldve noticed.But even if I thought this were realistic, Id still need to account for how a fraudster couldve 
known Miss Ls PIN. She says that this wasnt shared with anyone and she didnt write it 
down anywhere. The fact that theres no real explanation as to how the security of Miss Ls 
PIN couldve been compromised suggests its less likely that these withdrawals were carried 
out by a fraudster. 
I agree with what the investigator said about the pattern of spending on Miss Ls account. On 
the cases we see, a fraudster will typically seek to maximise the amount of money they can 
withdraw from someones account. Its normally a short period before the fraud is discovered 
and the bank notified. That isnt what happened in Miss Ls case.  Although anyone who had 
taken possession of her card and knew her PIN would be able to check her balance and see 
that there was money left in the account, some of the disputed payments are for as little as 
£10.
Its difficult for me to know with certainty what happened here. But I don't see any plausible 
way of explaining how Miss Ls card couldve been taken and replaced so many times, how 
her PIN couldve become known to a third party or why the account wasnt used in the way 
that wed typically see when a fraudster has access to it. 
I recognise how strongly Miss L feels about her complaint and Im sorry to have to disappoint 
her. But on balance, I think its likely she authorised these withdrawals, and so I find it 
reasonable for RBS to hold her liable for them.
Final Decision
For the reasons I've explained above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman