DRN-3088717
The complaint
Mrs B complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) declined a 
claim she brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Mrs B has complained together with her husband, Mr B, an additional cardholder on her 
Amex credit card account, and the person who made the disputed purchase. Because the 
credit card account is in Mrs Bs name, she is the eligible complainant for the purposes of 
our rules. However, I will refer primarily to Mr B in this decision as he has been the main 
point of contact with this service.
What happened
Mr B is a qualified plumber, and holds an additional card on Mrs Bs Amex account. He used 
this card to purchase items from a supplier Ill call V, which he planned to install in a 
relatives bathroom. The total cost of the items came to £729.20.
Problems emerged with two of the items, a cabinet and a bath panel, shortly after they were 
installed. Mr B says the materials theyd been manufactured from became swollen after two 
weeks of normal use. He complained to V about the items not being fit for purpose and V 
eventually offered to replace them. However, this wasnt an offer Mr B wanted to accept 
because he was concerned the replacements would have the same problem, which he 
believed to be caused by the materials being unfit for use in a bathroom.
Mr and Mrs B then turned to Amex for assistance, seeking to bring a claim under section 75 
of the CCA. Amex declined the claim, saying such a claim could not be brought due to a 
problem with the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. It said that Mrs B, the debtor 
on the credit card agreement, didnt have a contract with V. So she couldnt make a claim 
against Amex for what had gone wrong. Dissatisfied with this response, Mr and Mrs B 
complained. Amex would not change its position and so the complaint was referred to this 
service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and came to the same conclusions as 
Amex. Mr and Mrs B said they didnt understand how Mr B was not protected for purchases 
made on the additional card, and asked for the matter to be escalated.
The case has now been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can help. If 
a credit card has been used, as in this case, Section 75 of the CCA gives a legal right to 
claim against the credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations, 
so long as certain technical criteria have been met.
In this case, Amex said there was a problem with the DCS agreement which meant it 
wasnt liable under section 75 of the CCA.
The DCS agreement is one of the technical criteria which has to be in place for a successful 
section 75 claim to be made. The easiest way to explain it is by saying in order to make a 
section 75 claim against a credit card provider, the person who owns the credit card account 
needs to have a claim for a breach of contract or misrepresentation against the company 
which was paid using the credit card. More specifically, section 75 of the CCA itself says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
The key word in this case is debtor. Mrs B is the debtor under the credit card agreement 
with Amex. In other words, shes the one who is legally responsible for any debt on the credit 
card account.
Section 75 says its the debtor who needs to have the claim against the company which 
supplied the goods or services in dispute. Unfortunately, the facts of this case indicate Mrs B 
isnt the person who has a claim against V. Mr B bought the items from V and only his name 
appears on the invoice. It wasnt a joint purchase of some kind with Mrs B. The items were to 
be installed at a relatives house, rather than the family home where a tenuous argument 
could perhaps have been made that Mrs B was a jointly contracting party. Everything points 
to Mr B being the only party to the contract with V for the bathroom items, and my conclusion 
is that this was the case.
This means its Mr B who has any potential claim against V for a breach of contract in 
supplying the unsatisfactory bathroom items. Mrs B doesnt have a claim because shes not 
a party to the contract with V. It follows that she has no claim against Amex either, and so I 
conclude that Amex acted fairly in declining her section 75 claim.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B believed they would be protected by section 75 if they purchased 
the items on a credit card. However, there are technicalities such as the one which has been 
key in this case, which mean claims sometimes cannot be made.
Other avenues
Section 75 isnt the only avenue via which Amex could potentially have assisted in the 
dispute with V. It could have considered whether it could pursue a chargeback against V, via 
the dispute resolution system operated by the Amex card scheme. I make no firm finding on 
this as its not a point which has been argued by either side. However, its my understanding 
that by the time Mr and Mrs B approached Amex with the problem, it would already have 
been too late for a chargeback to have been attempted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 Will Culley
Ombudsman