DRN-4187701
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC were responsible for a cheque being returned 
unpaid.
Mrs P is represented by her son in law in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs P herself.
What happened
Mrs P credited a cheque from Barclays into a third party account. While the funds cleared on 
the third party account on 27 May 2022, these were subsequently returned to Barclays 
unpaid. As Mrs P had written two cheques from her third party account to family members 
for £31,000 each once the funds had cleared from her Barclays cheque, this resulted in her 
account with the third party being significantly overdrawn (over £56,000) and direct debits 
being rejected. Mrs P says that the two banks involved blame each other and she is unclear 
why the cheque was not honoured. Mrs P made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays partially upheld Mrs Ps complaint. They said they identified an error on their part 
which ultimately contributed to the cheque being returned unpaid. They said when they 
issued the cheque, there was a problem with the reference that was used and although this 
was communicated to the company who is responsible for clearing cheques, they still made 
the decision to return the cheque unpaid. They clarified their fraud team was not involved in 
any way. Barclays said they strongly believed that the third party bank shouldve never 
allowed the two cheques to be paid and for this reason, they said they cannot be held 
responsible for the subsequent impact their error has had on Mrs P. Barclays offered Mrs P 
£200 compensation for their role in what happened. Mrs P brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator said that he thought the offer of £200 compensation was fair redress in the 
circumstances as although Barclays made an error, causing the cheque to be returned as 
unpaid, they werent responsible for the events that followed. He said when the issue was 
raised with them, they dealt with the investigation swiftly and paid the funds in an alternative 
way within six days. He said Barclays process means they dont actively review unpaid 
cheques, so they wouldnt have been aware there was an issue. Our investigator explained 
that the error was caused when the original cheque had an error within the reference code. 
When the third party bank processed the cheque and they requested the payment through 
the third party cheque processor, it was returned unpaid as the third party cheque processor 
didnt recognise the reference code. Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mrs P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
changes to their policies or procedures, such as asking them to notify customers when 
cheques issued by Barclays are returned unpaid. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I must make it clear that Ill only be looking into the actions of Barclays on this complaint. Im 
aware that Mrs P has made a separate complaint about the third party bank involved here, 
but she will receive a separate decision in relation to the third partys actions. 
Barclays have admitted that there was an issue with the cheque reference on their end, 
which is ultimately the root cause of the cheque being returned unpaid. Therefore, given 
their initial error, if the reference was correct from the beginning, then Im satisfied that the 
cheque wouldnt have been returned unpaid. Although I can see that Barclays did try and 
rectify this before the cheque was returned unpaid, they were unsuccessful in this 
happening.  
Ive looked at Barclays terms and conditions for their personal accounts to see if there is any 
reference to their process with what happens if their actions cause a cheque to be returned 
unpaid. But I cant find anything in the terms and conditions regarding this. Barclays 
explained in their final response to Mrs P that they dont proactively check unpaid cheques 
and therefore, they only became aware of the issue when she raised the complaint. So 
although Mrs P might have expected Barclays to contact her about the cheque being 
returned unpaid, I cant say that Barclays didnt follow their procedures (or terms and 
conditions) when they dont proactively monitor unpaid cheques.
While Barclays may have been responsible for the root cause of the cheque being returned 
unpaid, I cant hold them responsible for actions which the third party bank took. These 
actions would be outside of Barclays control. For example, it wasnt Barclays systems which 
authorised the two £31,000 cheques for her family members  even though this created a 
five figure unarranged overdraft. It also wasnt Barclays system to reject her direct debit 
payments. So Im satisfied that Barclays error was limited to the initial cheque being returned 
unpaid.
But I recognise that the cheque being returned unpaid did have an impact on Mrs P. She 
tried to find out why this happened, and it would have been distressing for the cheque to be 
returned unpaid when these were funds from a maturing account. So it wasnt as if the funds 
were returned because a personal cheque was issued without her having the funds to do so. 
This is why the returned cheque would have been very frustrating for Mrs P and cause her 
worry. She also had concerns that she may be a victim of fraud. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. In doing so, Ive looked 
at what Barclays have done to mitigate the error. When they were aware of the issue, Im 
satisfied they acted in a timely manner and arranged a direct transfer to the third party bank. 
This saved Mrs P relying on cheque clearing times or any further cheque errors. 
But as they caused Mrs P distress and inconvenience by their initial error. Im satisfied that 
compensation is due here. Barclays offered Mrs P £200 compensation for their error. And 
Im satisfied this is fair. I say this as I cant hold them responsible for the actions of the third 
party bank. But their error did have an impact on Mrs P and as she didnt realise the cheque 
had been returned, it came as a shock for her to find this out. And she was inconvenienced 
by trying to get this put right. So it follows that Barclays should pay Mrs P the £200 
compensation they offered her to recognise the impact of their error, but I dont require them 
to do anything further.My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs P £200 for distress and 
inconvenience (if they havent already done so). But I wont be requiring them to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman