DRN-2911389
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they have repeatedly asked Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
to change their fee-paying account to a free one since 2012 but Barclays has not done so.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr and Mrs B took out a fee free account with Barclays in January 2001. 
They upgraded the account to a fee-paying Additions account in April 
2005. They further upgraded to a Premier Life account in Jun 2009.
Barclays notified Mr and Mrs B in late 2016 that they were stopping the Premier Life product 
and offered them a current account with fee-paying tech packs instead. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
respond to opt out, so the conversion took place in January 2017 and Mr and Mrs B were 
informed by letter.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays in February 2017 that the fee-paying accounts 
were mis-sold. An ombudsmans decision was issued on this which decided the fee-
paying accounts hadnt been mis-sold.
But Mr and Mrs B say that Barclays has not acted on their repeated requests to downgrade 
their account to a free one since 2012 and they want the fees back.
Barclays says that it has no record of any requests from Mr and Mrs B to downgrade their 
account and so they have not done so.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, so it has come to me to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say theyd been asking for the fee-paying Premier Life account to be
downgraded to a free account since 2012.
Barclays has provided its records and says it has no evidence of Mr and Mrs B making 
these requests. I can see that Mr and Mrs B were actively using the benefits of the Premier 
Life account from June 2009. So, in my view, I dont have enough evidence to decide its 
more likely than not that Barclays failed to act on their instructions from 2012 to January 
2017.
However, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs B in January 2017 to tell them their account 
had been changed from Premier Life to a new current account with fee paying tech 
packs costing £25 a month.
Mrs B wrote her letter of complaint about the account within a month on 28 February 2017. 
I consider this is within a reasonable response time. I think her letter shows that Mr and Mrs 
B were not happy paying for any bank account at that time. In my view, Barclays was the 
party changing the product it was selling and should have taken immediate action to liaise 
with Mr and Mrs B and establish whether to take the first payment or any further payments 
for the new product.
But instead Barclays investigated the complaint that Mrs B had raised and then told Mrs 
and Mrs B in a letter a month later that they were having the new product unless they 
stopped it.
Barclays says it has no record of Mr and Mrs B contacting it to stop the new account. But 
Mr and Mrs B were not actively using the benefits of the account, and essentially the only 
transactions on the account each month from January 2017 until it closed in 2019 were the 
monthly fees for the tech packs. So, having expressed their view in their complaint letter, I 
think its more likely than not that they did contact Barclays and ask for the tech packs to 
be removed.
This may not have been by Barclays preferred telephone number route, but I think 
contact was most likely made. And I think Barclays should have acted on that contact.
So, in my view Barclays has not acted correctly in continuing to charge Mr and Mrs B for 
the tech packs after their product change in January 2017, and so I am minded to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and ask them to put things right as below.
putting things right
I require Barclays to put Mr and Mrs B back in the position they would have been in if 
they had not been charged for the tech packs since January 2017:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the Tech Packs
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B have saved money because of a better rate on their overdraft by 
having the packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Mr and Mrs B 
have saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays her  but only after it 
has calculated the two points above. Barclays must explain clearly and simply to Mr 
and Mrs B how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has submitted any further evidence or arguments, so my conclusions remain 
as in my provisional findings above.Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC must put things right as described in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as described above and 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as shown above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman