DRN-4262507
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about the way The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland 
trading as Bank of Ireland Mortgages treated them when they were in financial difficulties.
What happened
In early 2004 Mr W and Mrs W took out a 25-year repayment mortgage of around £100,000 
with The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland trading as Bank of Ireland 
Mortgages (BOI).
From around 2013/2014 onwards they couldnt keep up their mortgage payments and 
significant arrears began to build up. BOI got a possession order against Mr W and Mrs W in 
2019. And in 2022 they instructed solicitors to repossess the property. That action is on hold 
while we look into their complaint.
Mr W and Mrs W felt BOI failed to take into account their circumstances and health issues or 
provide them with support. They said their communications were intimidating and had 
caused them distress. And they were unhappy BOI wouldnt provide a copy of their lending 
policy. They complained to BOI.
BOI didnt uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. They said, in summary, theyd tried to help 
them many times and signposted them to organisations that could provide financial support; 
Mr W and Mrs W had provided incomplete and inconsistent information about their income 
and expenditure so they hadnt been able to reach agreement about paying off the arrears; 
their contact with Mr W and Mrs W was in line with their responsibility to let them know the 
action they might take so they could decide how to manage their mortgage account; and 
they wouldnt provide their lending policy since it was commercially sensitive.
Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy with BOIs response to their complaint. They brought it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator felt BOI had taken Mr W and Mrs Ws 
circumstances into account in their dealings with them. And she thought BOI had treated 
them fairly and reasonably.
Since Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy with our investigators outcome, their complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont set out in detail whats happened. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of the service we provide. Id like to reassure the parties Ive looked at 
everything carefully before coming to my decision. Since my reasons differ in part from those 
of our investigator, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties time to comment 
before I issue a final decision.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult personal circumstances and health issues Mr W and Mrs W 
have dealt with over many years. I can see theyve found it difficult to manage their 
mortgage payments. And I appreciate their emotional attachment to their property.
I need to be fair to both parties in considering Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. Under the terms 
and conditions of their mortgage, Mr W and Mrs W agreed to make their contractual monthly 
mortgage payments (CMPs). It was reasonable for BOI to expect them to be paid. If Mr W 
and Mrs W fell into arrears, it was reasonable for BOI to take action to recover the arrears 
and repossess the property if that was the only way they could recover their loan.
Having said that, Id expect BOI to have treated Mr W and Mrs W fairly while they were in 
financial difficulties and to have taken their circumstances and health concerns into account. 
The relevant rules mean I can only look at whats happened in the six years before Mr W 
and Mrs W complained, that is from 2016 onwards. But I can see that BOI had been 
discussing the arrears with them for a few years before that. And theyd put possession 
proceedings on hold while they worked with them to manage the account. Neither Mr W nor 
Mrs W were working due to ill-health. And they were receiving help towards their mortgage 
from the Department of Work and Pensions.
By 2016 BOI were aware of Mr W and Mrs Ws vulnerabilities and poor health. And theyd 
passed their case to a specialist team for handling. BOI were aware the organisation Mr W 
and Mrs W had hoped would provide a grant to pay off the arrears at the time, wouldnt be 
making any payment since theyd found no evidence of financial hardship. And they 
understood from Mr W and Mrs Ws representative at that organisation that they could afford 
their CMP.
It was reasonable for BOI to think Mr W and Mrs W could afford their mortgage based on 
that information. But they gave Mr W and Mrs W the opportunity to provide them with 
information about their income and expenditure so that they could assess their financial 
situation and what was affordable for them. They considered requests to move to interest 
only terms as a concession and capitalising the arrears. And they raised the possibility of   
Mr W and Mrs W selling the property.
BOI were concerned about Mr W and Mrs Ws failures and delays in providing information 
about their financial circumstances. They held off taking repossession proceedings over 
many months to accommodate their ill-health and other reasons they gave for delays. But 
they noted the information Mr W and Mrs W did provide was incomplete, inconsistent with 
supporting documentation or showed they were spending money on non-essential items, 
rather than paying the mortgage - as they should have been as a priority debt.
For example, in June 2016 BOI delayed sending a field agent to discuss things with Mr W 
and Mrs W when Mr W was unwell. They agreed instead to consider their income and 
expenditure information if they returned the form within 14 days  they failed to do so. In 
2017, Mr W and Mrs W didnt return an income and expenditure form they were asked to 
complete then. And in March 2018 BOI noted inconsistencies in the information Mr W and 
Mrs W provided.We expect borrowers to engage meaningfully in discussions with lenders about their 
circumstances. In the absence of any clear information about Mr W and Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for BOI to decline a change to the 
mortgage. I appreciate selling the property would have been a wrench for Mr W and Mrs W 
given their personal connections to it. But it was a reasonable suggestion for BOI to make.
Since Mr W and Mrs W werent paying the mortgage in full or at all, the arrears were 
continuing to increase, and the equity in the property was reducing in neither partys 
interests.
Despite everything, BOI held off pursuing repossession of the property until 2018. Several 
court hearings were adjourned based on proposals Mr W and Mrs W made to pay the CMP 
and an additional amount towards the arrears. Limited or no payments were made. And, in 
the end, the court made a possession order in September 2019. Even so, BOI held off taking 
possession after that in light of Mr Ws poor health. And repossession was then delayed in 
line with government guidance during the coronavirus pandemic.
BOI kept in contact with Mr W and Mrs W. They looked into concerns Mrs W raised about a 
standing order shed set up to pay the mortgage not going through. And they agreed to 
discuss things with a relative if Mr W and Mrs W gave authority. But BOI had fresh concerns 
about where the unpaid standing order money had gone when it wasnt paid to them; 
payments Mr W and Mrs W had made to an airline which suggested non-essential 
expenditure; and the authority to discuss things with a relative not being provided.
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think BOI treated Mr W and Mrs W fairly and reasonably. 
They had valid concerns about the information Mr W and Mrs W were providing about their 
ability to pay the mortgage. They took account of their circumstances and gave them plenty 
of time to respond to requests for information. And BOI regularly provided them with 
information about organisations that could provide them with independent financial advice.
Ive considered the contact and correspondence BOI had with Mr W and Mrs W. Id expect 
BOI to have kept Mr W and Mrs W updated about the position on their account through calls 
and correspondence. I dont think it went beyond what was required or reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. I wouldnt expect BOI to have provided Mr W and Mrs W with a 
copy of their lending policy since its commercially sensitive information.
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy about a visit made to their property in October 
2022. I understand it was made on the instruction of BOIs solicitors and was required to 
check who was living at the property before it could be repossessed. But I dont consider it 
here since its not part of the complaint Mr W and Mrs W made to BOI which Im looking at 
here.
Considering everything, whilst I sympathise with Mr W and Mrs Ws difficult situation, I dont 
think BOI have treated them unfairly or unreasonably. And, whilst I understand they will be 
disappointed, based on what I know so far, I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Id expect 
BOI to continue to treat Mr W and Mrs W fairly while they consider their next steps.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint.
Developments
Neither party has commented on my provisional decision. So, Ill go on to make my final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since there are no further comments to consider, I see no reason to change my views. For 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman