DRN-2980087
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited (BRWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his DB scheme. So, he contacted BRWM and another firm (which Ill refer to as Firm A) 
for advice. Mr M met with BRWM and Firm A in December 2016. In January 2017 Firm A 
completed a fact-find and an assessment of Mr Ms risk appetite. The fact-find noted Mr M 
wanted to discuss transferring his DB scheme to a personal pension. As Firm A didnt hold 
the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the 
transfer of his DB scheme, it told Mr M he would be referred to BRWM. 
BRWM completed its own fact find in February 2017. This showed Mr M was 55, married 
with two non-dependent children and was earning around £32,000 per year. Mr M had a 
mortgage and a loan totalling £75,000 with final repayment due in January 2027. Mr M also 
had a car loan of £15,000 and minimal savings. Mr M was a member of his employers new 
defined contribution scheme (DCS). His risk profile was recorded as being cautious to 
moderate.
On 15 February 2017, BRWM advised Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits into a flexi-access 
drawdown personal pension and invest the proceeds in a managed fund. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr M wanted to access his 
pension and use the tax-free cash (TFC) to repay his mortgage, which would free up 
additional income. It said the arrangement allowed Mr M to leave the remaining funds 
invested until he retired around age 60 and he could take flexible income as and when 
required. It also said it provided additional death benefits which were important to him. Mr M 
accepted the advice and the transfer of his BSPS benefits went ahead in April 2017. Mr M 
was referred back to Firm A for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
Mr M, through his representative, complained in 2020 to BRWM and Firm A about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. Mr M believed both businesses were responsible for the 
advice to transfer out of the BSPS. Mr M said he took his TFC as advised and repaid his 
mortgage, but he now believes this wasnt in his best interests. 
BRWM didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mr Ms objectives could only have been met 
by transferring out of the BSPS as he needed immediate access to his TFC but didnt require 
any pension income.
Firm A told Mr M it hadnt provided him with advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to BRWM.
Mr M referred his complaints about both businesses to this service. 
An investigator thought the advice BRWM gave Mr M was unsuitable  he wasnt persuaded 
that Mr M had a genuine need to repay his mortgage early, as his debts were manageable 
and he and his wife, Mrs M, had sufficient disposable income that couldve been used to 
reduce their debts before retirement. The investigator also though the critical yield required 
to match Mr Ms existing benefits was unachievable. He said BRWM should compensate 
Mr M for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that compensation 
should be based on Mr M having opted to join the BSPS2.
BRWM disagreed. It said it was unreasonable to uphold the complaint based on the critical 
yield being unachievable because it had never suggested Mr M could achieve a higher 
income if he transferred. Ultimately BRWM was satisfied that Mr Ms objectives of reducing 
his debt could only be met by transferring out of the BSPS.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
After reviewing the complaint I didnt think that Mr M should have been advised to join the 
BSPS2 or that it was fair to base compensation on this. I thought Mr M had concrete plans to 
retire early, at around age 60. And I noted that Mr M had in fact retired at age 58. So, 
I thought Mr M wouldve been better off by allowing his pension to enter the PPF instead. 
This is because the early retirement reductions were far more favourable under the PPF, 
and Mr M wouldve been entitled to a higher tax-free cash sum, which he needed to clear 
any remaining debt when he retired. So, I thought Mr M shouldve been advised to allow his 
pension to move with the scheme to the PPF and compensation should be based on the 
benefits available to Mr M at age 58. I informed both parties of the change to the redress 
calculation method, which included the impact of the BSPS trustees buying an insurance 
policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment and 
completing a buy-out.
Mr Ms representative said the calculation should be based on Mr M retiring at 60, as this 
was when he expected to retire at the time of the advice. It also thought BRWM should be 
required to do a second calculation when the terms of the buy-out were known. It added that 
BRWM should also be asked to calculate the benefits available to Mr M through the BSPS2 
and the PPF and compensation should be based on whatever calculation produced the 
highest amount.
BRWM maintained that Mr M wouldnt have been better off by allowing his pension to move 
to the PPF because he wanted to retire early and he wanted to leave whatever remained of 
his pension to his family. But if it was required to pay redress, it asked whether I accepted 
that Mr M wouldve taken his TFC at 55 through the PPF. If so, it said it should be allowed to 
deduct the pension income Mr M would have received from age 55 from whatever redress 
was payable.
As both parties have responded, Im now providing my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement at age 65 (critical
yield) was 15.75% per year if benefits were taken in full or 12.74% if TFC was taken
with a reduced pension. The equivalent critical yields to match the benefits available if the 
BSPS moved to the PPF were 10.46% and 9.83% at age 65.
I also note that Mr M was looking to retire at 60. So comparisons should have also been 
made at this age and not only to age 65. Critical yields at 60 might have been even higher 
than at age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.1% per year for 5 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Ms cautious-moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr M 
was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement (even if the BSPS moved to the PPF), as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. 
BRWM says the critical yield is of limited relevance as Mr M was not planning to take an 
annuity with his pension funds. However, the critical yield does still give a good indication of 
the value of benefits Mr M was giving up and the regulator deems it an important part of the 
decision-making process. I also note that BRWM said themselves in the suitability report that 
the critical yield was very high and if Mr M hadnt wanted to access tax free cash 
immediately, they wouldnt have recommended the transfer. 
Ive also considered the cash flow analysis BRWM conducted for Mr M. It showed the impact 
of Mr M taking income of £12,000 from age 60 and reducing this to £2,640 from age 67 
when his state pension became payable. BRWM says it showed the level of income Mr M 
required was sustainable and would potentially leave a lump sum of around £300,000 for his 
wife and children by his anticipated life expectancy of 86. However, the analysis assumed 
5% net returns after charges which means Mr M needed to achieve returns of more than 7% to make up for ongoing adviser and pension plan charges (around 2% a year) and the initial 
adviser charge of around £6,500.
Also, as BRWM will know, past performance is no guarantee of future performance. So, 
I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time. As explained above, it was unlikely these levels of return could 
be achieved given Mr Ms attitude to risk, so I think his funds were at risk of running out a lot 
sooner.
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ms benefits were reduced, he 
was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr M would be financially worse off in 
retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
BRWM has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered below whether such 
other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
One of BRWMs main arguments in support of its recommendation to transfer was that Mr M 
wanted to take TFC at 55 to reduce his debts. It says Mr M had taken a pay cut to keep his 
position at the BSPS and so paying down some of his debts wouldve given him more 
financial certainty. However, Mr M intended to continue working until age 60, so he didnt 
need to take any pension income until then. So, BRWM says he needed to be able to access 
his pension flexibly as he couldnt take TFC without also taking his pension income through 
the PPF. It also says this flexibility would allow Mr M to take a higher income from his 
pension at first before reducing it when his state benefits became payable.
Firm A and BRWMs fact-find says at the time of the advice Mr M had a mortgage of £55,000 
ending in 2027 (when Mr M would be around 65 years old); a loan of £20,000 also ending in 
2027 and another loan of £15,000 ending in 2021. It said Mr M wanted to repay the 
mortgage, which had a monthly repayment of £500 per month, so he could use the income 
he saved on this to pay down the remaining loans. It says he wanted to ensure that he had 
no debt by the time he retired at 60. But Mr M says his mortgage and loans were not 
unaffordable and he and his wife had plenty of disposable income that they couldve instead 
used to make overpayments on either the mortgage or the loans before they retired. Mr M 
feels he still couldve been debt free when he retired at 60 by using the TFC available to him 
then. He also disputes that he took a pay cut.
Mr M was already 55 at the time of the advice, so he was able to access his pension. And 
I think Mr M probably thought it was a good idea to use the TFC available to him to pay 
down as much of his debt as he could at the time. But an adviser's job isn't simply to 
facilitate a customer's objectives. Any objectives should be interrogated thoroughly to 
determine whether or not they are realistic, or achievable through other means. And 
ultimately, the adviser has to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits 
available through the BSPS or the PPF was in Mr M's best interests.
Mr Ms monthly mortgage and loan repayments amount to just over £1,000, but these were 
liabilities he shared with Mrs M, who earned more than him. The mortgage repayment was 
only £500 per month. Based on what Ive seen, it was not unaffordable and was not having 
an impact on Mr and Mrs Ms lifestyle. The only benefit of repaying this early, as opposed to 
clearing it with the TFC available to Mr M at 60, was to save on the interest repayments. Firm As fact-find shows that the interest rate was only 1%, so, in reality, this saving over five 
years was likely to be minimal. 
I also think that Mr and Mrs M had disposable income that they couldve used to make 
overpayments to either the mortgage or the loans. BRWMs fact-find says Mr and Mrs Ms 
joint income was around £4,200 per month after tax. Mr M disputes having taken a pay cut, 
and in any event, the notes in the fact-find suggest that Mr M had already taken a pay cut  
so Im satisfied the salary noted for Mr M in the fact-find was correct.
BRWM said Mr Ms expenditure was around £3,600 per month, but based on what Ive seen 
this was clearly Mr and Mrs Ms joint expenditure, not Mr Ms alone. And it included the 
following non-essential spending:
£800 food and personal care;
£800 holidays;
£100 entertainment.
Mr M strongly disputes that he and Mrs M spent £800 on food/personal care and another 
£800 per month on holidays. He says he recalls saying that they put aside around £800 a 
month for things like holidays, but it certainly wasnt a fixed monthly expenditure  it was 
better described as extra income that they used freely. Im persuaded by Mr Ms account 
because spending £1,700 per month, every month, on food, personal care, holidays and 
entertainment seems very unlikely. So, I think the adviser shouldve recognised that Mr and 
Mrs M had at least £1,000 per month in disposable income that they ought to have been 
saving or using to pay down their remaining debt.
But even if I assumed that no overpayments towards the debts were made, the balance of 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage when Mr M reached age 60 in 2022 wouldve been around 
£27,500 based on the repayments of £500 per month over 10 years. The loan of £20,000 
wouldve had around £10,000 left to repay based on repayments of £250 per month over 10 
years. And the other loan wouldve been cleared as it ended in 2021. So, Mr M wouldve 
needed a lump sum of around £40,000 to clear the remaining debts when he retired.
I dont know what lump sum wouldve been available to Mr M through the PPF at age 60 
because BRWM failed to make that comparison. BRWM has told us that if Mr M had taken 
benefits from the BSPS at 55 he wouldve been entitled to take TFC of £38,816. But I know 
that the early retirement factors under the PPF were more favourable. So, Im satisfied that 
the TFC available to Mr M wouldve been at least the £40,000 he required, and probably 
closer to the £83,430.34 he was entitled to through the PPF at 65. Mr M also had a DCS 
which at age 60 would have had accumulated benefits for six years and could have provided 
further income and/or another lump sum which Mr M could have accessed flexibly. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr M wouldve been able to comfortably clear his debts at 60 if he allowed his 
pension to move with the scheme to the PPF.
For this reason, I dont think Mr Ms desire to clear his remaining mortgage was a good 
enough reason for him to give up a secure, guaranteed, escalating pension income in 
retirement. Whilst advantages of staying in the scheme and disadvantages of transferring 
are referred to in the suitability report, the transfer is justified by suggesting Mr Ms 
objectives cant be achieved by staying in the scheme. However, as explained above, I dont 
think this is true. Alternative options were just not properly discussed and explored. So, 
I dont think BRWM shouldve advised Mr M to transfer out of the BSPS. Instead, Mr M 
should've been advised to let his DB scheme enter the PPF and access his benefits at 60. 
BRWM says that Mr Ms income needs also couldnt be met by the PPF, saying he required 
income of £12,000 a year. The fact-find seems to say Mrs M separately required £20,000 a year. But there is no breakdown of this figure so I dont know what liabilities or expenditure 
this is based on. This analysis ought to have been completed by BRWM at the time rather 
than relying on a figure suggested by Mr M. So, in the absence of this, Ive looked at Mr and 
Mrs Ms expenditure in 2017 to try to ascertain what ongoing expenses they would have in 
retirement, bearing in mind that spending in retirement generally reduces. Taking out the 
loan repayments and looking at the remaining ongoing expenses would leave a need for 
around £1,750 per month. So, that would equate to an annual expenditure of £21,000 
between them, or £10,500 each.
I dont know for certain what benefits Mr M would have been entitled to at age 60 through the 
PPF as BRWM didnt do the necessary analysis at the time, as they should have. But at 65 
Mr M couldve taken an income of £12,550.60 per year. At 60 this wouldve been less, but 
Im not persuaded that it wouldve been substantially less given the favourable early 
retirement factors. Mrs M was entitled to £12,000 per year from her DB scheme at 55. I also 
think that Mr M would likely have had additional funds remaining from his TFC entitlement 
and his DCS. So, on balance, I think Mr and Mrs M couldve met their income needs 
between them if Mr M remained in the BSPS and allowed his pension to move with it to the 
PPF. My key concern here is that none of these options were discussed with Mr M.
In summary, I dont think Mr M had a genuine need for flexibility  that is, I dont think he 
needed to access his TFC and then leave his funds invested until age 60. Im also satisfied 
Mr Ms income requirements in retirement could be met without him having to transfer out of 
the BSPS. So, if suitable advice had been given, I dont think Mr M would have accessed 
TFC at 55; instead, he wouldve most likely taken his benefits at age 60. I appreciate that 
Mr M did, in fact, take his TFC at age 55 to pay down his mortgage. But I dont think that 
wouldve happened if hed been given suitable advice - it seems to me that he only did this 
because the funds were available and BRWM didnt discourage him from doing so.
Death benefits
According to the fact-find, Mr M said he would like the ability to leave any remaining pension 
funds to his wife or his children.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So telling Mr M he could leave a large
sum to his family when he died would have sounded a lot more attractive than the DB
scheme where his wife would receive a reduced pension. While Mr M might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRWM explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for potentially higher 
death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits with BSPS were underplayed. Mr Ms wife would have 
received a guaranteed spouses pension for life which would have been valuable if Mr M 
predeceased her. And if he wanted to leave some of his pension to his children, he could 
have made provisions for this with his DCS he had with his employer. Alternatively, he 
couldve taken out insurance, or reinvested any excess pension income for the benefit of his 
children if he genuinely wanted to leave them a legacy. In comparison, if Mr M lived a long 
life, there might not have been a large or any sum to leave to his beneficiaries from his 
personal pension, particularly if the growth achieved was less than expected.
BRWM also says Mr M wasnt in good health and had concerns that he wouldnt survive until 
86. So, this played a part in him wanting to ensure his pension could be passed on. But 
Mr M disputes this, saying his health condition has no effect on his life expectancy and it was well managed. Based on what I know about Mr Ms condition, people with this condition are 
expected to have the same life expectancy as those without it. So, I believe Mr M when he 
says that this wasnt a concern.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Despite what BRWM says, Mr M wasnt in poor health and so more focus should have been 
on ensuring Mr M would receive his required income over a long period of time.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr M was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring 
out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. He said this is 
why he wanted to move the pension into his control.
So its quite possible that Mr M was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was 
BRWMs obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interest. Mr M was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what Ive 
seen, BRWM didnt provide Mr M with an objective picture about the PPF and what this 
might mean for him specifically. Mr M was clearly interested in retiring early and early 
retirement reductions were in fact lower in the PPF than in the BSPS  but this wasnt 
shared with Mr M. 
Overall, I dont think BRWM did much to alleviate Mr Ms concerns and fears. Instead, it 
appears to have used these concerns to justify the transfer.
Summary
I accept that Mr M was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing. And I dont doubt that flexibility, control and
higher death benefits would have sounded like attractive features. But BRWM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really
understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
I think Mr M could have met his objectives by not transferring his DB benefits. He could have 
likely covered his income needs at age 60 through the PPF and he would have been entitled 
to a guaranteed and secure income which continuously increased with inflation. And I dont 
think he had any immediate need to access his TFC; his remaining debts couldve been 
cleared by him taking his TFC entitlement at age 60 through the PPF. 
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr M was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr M. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS.
On balance I think Mr M would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. 
Mr M was an inexperienced investor and he was concerned about the security of his 
pension. This pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision, and I dont think 
he wouldve wanted to take any unnecessary risk with it. So, if BRWM had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.BRWM may dispute this because Mr M was given the option to delay his transfer and wait 
for a new revised transfer value following a review of the calculations used previously by the 
trustees. However, Mr M rejected this option and confirmed he wanted to proceed with the 
original transfer. But I dont think that means Mr M would have acted against any advice he 
was given not to transfer out. I say this because I think Mr Ms insistence on proceeding was 
because of his fear that the transfer value would be lower. But at this point, BRWM had 
already provided him with a positive recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS, so Im not 
surprised that he was keen to secure the value of his pension rather than risk the sum 
reducing. If Mr M had been told that despite the transfer value offered, transferring out would 
not have been in his best interests, then I dont think this situation would have arisen.
If Mr M had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. I carefully considered what Mr M likely would have 
done and on balance I think he would have opted to move to the PPF. I say this because at 
the time Mr M wanted to retire early. BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Ms initial 
entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of his benefits would have had potentially higher 
increases in BSPS2. However, early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and 
commutation factors for the TFC entitlement were more favourable under the PPF. So 
overall, its likely Mr Ms income and TFC entitlement would have been higher in the PPF. 
Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Ms pension at the date of
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the 
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF. However, Mrs M had her own DB 
pension. And I think on balance Mr Ms own benefits and higher TFC which he and his wife 
could benefit from earlier in retirement would have been more important to him.
So, I think BRWM should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's 
pension review methodology. And its the benefits offered by the PPF at age 58 which 
should be used for comparison purposes. This is because I know that Mr M actually retired 
at this age.
Mr Ms representative has said although Mr M retired at age 58, this was due to the 
department he worked in being outsourced to a contractor, which he felt changed the 
working culture. However, he said that Mr M returned to work in March 2021 after the 
contractor left and the department returned to the control of British Steel. Mr M then left 
again in July 2021 aged 59. Mr Ms representative says that but for the change in the 
working environment, Mr M wouldve continued to work until age 60. So, it says 
compensation should be based on Mr M retiring at this age.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im satisfied that it would be fair to base compensation on 
Mr M retiring at age 58 because this is what actually happened. As Ive said above, if Mr M 
had been suitably advised, I think his pension wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
And then he wouldve been faced with the same issue with regard to his department. So, 
I think he still wouldve decided to retire at that point and he wouldve needed to access his 
pension to take income from it. I dont think the fact that Mr M returned to work briefly in 
2021 alters the fact that he wouldve started taking his pension at age 58.
Mr Ms representative also says that BRWM should be required to calculate Mr Ms 
entitlement under the PPF and his entitlement through the BSPS2 and pay him whatever is 
higher. It says this reflects the analysis it should have done at the time of the advice and 
would demonstrate what was in his best interest. But in making this decision, Ive had to 
decide what wouldve been suitable advice for Mr M at the time, based on his needs. And as 
Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Mr M shouldve been advised to allow his pension to 
move with the scheme to the PPF. So, the redress calculation should be based on these 
benefits.For completeness, I dont agree with BRWM that Mr M wouldve accessed his benefits at 
age 55 assuming his pension moved with the scheme to the PPF. Ive already explained 
above why that is. BRWM should calculate compensation based on Mr M accessing his 
benefits through the PPF at age 58, taking TFC and a reduced pension.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for BRWM to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have 
remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So 
calculations should be undertaken on this assumption.
BRWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. Mr M 
retired at 58, so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr M's acceptance of the decision.
BRWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
BRWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRWM 
to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Additional compensationIn October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr M has retired (at age 58 in January 2020) and I think he would've done the same if he 
had gone into the PPF. I say this because it was always his intention to retire early, around 
age 60 and he actually retired earlier than this due to a change with his department. Due to 
the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the PPF, I think 
(albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) that entry 
into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr M. As such, I think its 
more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could be made 
up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require BRWM to undertake a redress calculation on the current known 
basis (as above), rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is 
in order to provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to 
proceedings.
If Mr M accepts this he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set out above. 
Its important that Mr M is aware that, once any final decision has been issued, if accepted, it 
cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
For the upset caused by the unsuitable advice, BRWM should also pay Mr M £300.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bailey 
Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that
Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final
decision.
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr M and his representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman