DRN-3714091
The complaint
Mr B complains about American Express Services Europe Limiteds (AESELs) decision to 
not to uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Mr B has explained that he had an agreement with the retailer to deliver his new shoes by 
Christmas. But the retailer doesnt agree there was such an agreement and without further 
evidence it wouldnt be reasonable to suggest there was a contractual agreement for the 
retailer to do that, or that thered been a breach of contract on those grounds.
I understand that Mr B disputes having had sight of the contract or that he signed it. He also 
says its illegible. 
The order form provides a description of the shoes being ordered and sets out the price. 
Theres a signature box where a signature has been added. The box explains that I have 
read and understand the terms on the reverse of this form. Id agree that all the entries on 
the order form, including the signature, are hard to make out. Ive also been provided with a 
copy of the terms and conditions that the merchant has explained are on the reverse of the 
order form. Those terms are legible. 
Im persuaded that it is Mr Bs signature on the order form and that he was given an 
opportunity to agree to the terms and conditions. There was clearly a contract entered into 
and information would have been taken to set out the price and the description of the goods 
being provided. Theres been no other document provided that sets out those details, so I 
think, on balance, Mr B is likely to have signed the order form and therefore signed to 
explain he understood the terms and conditions.
Those terms and conditions dont establish a definitive delivery date and the email from the 
retailer to Mr B simply explains the usual timeframe and again doesnt provide a definitive 
date. Whilst, I think Mr B could expect delivery in a reasonable timeframe I also accept that 
these were bespoke shoes subject to a reasonably complex manufacturing process. I dont 
think the retailers progress was considerably outside what would reasonably be expected of 
such a bespoke process. They explained the first fitting would usually be provided in six to 
eight weeks and emailed Mr B to arrange that fitting after a little more than 10 weeks had 
elapsed. I dont think that can fairly be said to have been a breach of contract. 
Whilst I understand Mr B would have liked the retailer to make accommodation for a fitting 
later in the day I dont think there was a contractual arrangement that obliged the retailer to 
do so and I dont therefore think there has been a breach of contract in that respect either.
I understand Mr B disputes the merchants right to charge him a 75% deposit. He says that 
legislation doesnt allow that. Im considering whether AESEL considered Mr Bs claim fairly 
under section 75 and that requires me to think about whether there has been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. I dont think Mr Bs concerns about the amount of deposit 
could fairly be considered to fall into that category and its not something Id expect AESEL 
to consider when reviewing his section 75 claim.
Mr B has also referred me to section 75A of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) which he says 
extends liability. But Im afraid section 75A doesnt apply to credit card transactions or to 
claims where the cash value of the goods is less than £30,000, as is the case here. 
Whilst I understand that Mr B wanted AESEL to resolve his claim quicker I think he received 
a response to his claim within a reasonable period of time.
Overall, I dont think AESEL have been unreasonable here and Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman