DRN-4148308
The complaint
Mr M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) miscalculated the book cost of 
his shareholding. He wants Halifax to correct the error and apologise.
What happened
Mr M has a share dealing account provided by Halifax. Using that account Mr M has bought 
and sold shares in a company which Ill call B. Mr M acquired his shares in B through a 
number of separate purchases over a period of about ten years. And during that time he also 
sold some of his shares in B from time to time.
Mr M says that when he sold some of his shares in B in January 2023 Halifax recorded an 
incorrect sale price. He says the incorrect sale price resulted in Halifax calculating a wrong 
book cost for his remaining shares. So he thinks the current book cost that Halifax is 
showing for his holding is wrong, and he thinks Halifaxs profit and loss statement for his 
holding in B is therefore also wrong.
Mr M complained to Halifax, but Halifax said its calculation was correct. It gave Mr M a 
spreadsheet showing how it had calculated his book cost.
Mr M was not satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She said Halifax followed its own 
procedures and acted fairly and reasonably when calculating Mr Ms book cost. So she didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong. The Investigator said Halifax used an aggregation 
method to assign an average cost per share to its customers share holdings.
Mr M said he understood the method for calculating the book cost, but he believed the 
calculation in this instance was incorrect because Halifax had recorded an incorrect sale 
price for his January 2023 transaction. And he thought that the incorrect sale price had 
caused an error in Halifaxs calculation of his book cost.
Mr M provided a transaction record and a contract note from Halifax. The transaction record 
included a column titled Cost per share. Under that column the amount showing for the 
January 2023 sale was 25.18p. But, Mr M said, the contract note showed that the sale price 
for the shares he sold in January 2023 was only 2.5p.
Our Investigator told Mr M that Halifax said the figure of 25.18p per share was the book cost 
of those shares  not the sale price. And that the correct sale price was recorded on the 
trade confirmation (also known as the contract note).
Mr M continued to say Halifax had used a wrong number in its calculation of his book cost. 
He said he wasnt disputing whether Halifax had followed its own processes  he was 
concerned that a wrong amount had been recorded for a single transaction and had caused 
Halifaxs calculations to be wrong. He said that, for all his other transactions, the Cost per 
share column showed the purchase or sale price of the shares that were bought or sold. 
And this showed there was an error in the figure recorded for the January 2023 transaction.
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Looking at the amounts in the Cost per share column and the contract notes Mr M 
submitted to us, I think Halifax is right to say that the Cost per share column of Mr Ms 
transaction record shows the book cost of the shares that were sold, and not the sale price.
Mr M pointed out that for other transactions in that column the amount showing was the cost 
for which the shares were bought or sold in that transaction. I think this is the case for 
transactions in which Mr M bought shares, but not for transactions in which Mr M sold 
shares.
For purchases, the Cost per share column shows the book cost of those shares at the time 
of purchase, which is the same as the cost of the purchase. For sales, the Cost per share 
column shows the book cost of those shares at the time they were sold, which is determined 
according to Halifaxs aggregation method for calculating book cost. Thats why the Cost per 
share for Mr Ms January 2023 sale of B shows as 25.18p, instead of the price at which he 
sold which was 2.5p.
So, having carefully considered this and everything Mr Ms said about his transaction 
records, I dont think the figures in the Cost per share column suggest that anything is 
wrong in Halifaxs records. And therefore I have no reason to say Halifax has given Mr M an 
incorrect book cost, or an incorrect statement of profit and loss.
I note also that Halifax has said the sale price of shares sold doesnt factor into its 
calculation of the book cost. This is consistent with Halifaxs description of how it calculates 
book cost, which our Investigator passed on to Mr M. And its consistent with the explanation 
Halifax gives on its website of how it calculates book cost. And I accept that it is the case. 
Halifax has shown that its method is that, when Mr M sells a parcel of shares, the new book 
cost for his remaining shareholding is adjusted by deducting the book cost of the shares hes 
sold (not the sale price of those shares) from the overall book cost of his holding. The new 
book cost per share is then calculated by dividing the new book cost for the total 
shareholding by the number of shares that remain in the shareholding.
And so, for this reason too, I dont think Halifaxs calculation of Mr Ms book cost has been 
affected by an incorrectly recorded sale price.
Id like to assure Mr M that Ive carefully considered all of his submissions. And having done 
so I think he can be satisfied that Halifax hasnt made an error here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Lucinda PulsOmbudsman