DRN-3409791
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society defaulted his credit card account and that 
this has impacted on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Nationwide. He got into some financial difficulties and 
entered into a debt management plan (DMP) with a third-party debt charity. 
In August 2018 an amount of £5 a month was agreed under the plan to make repayments 
towards Mr Ms credit card debt with Nationwide. But Mr M says that Nationwide reported 
missed payments to the credit reference agency (CRA), even though he met the monthly 
agreed repayments under the plan. Mr M complains that Nationwide eventually defaulted his 
account in March 2019.
To put things right, Mr M says he would like Nationwide to make amendments to his credit 
file to show that it was receiving repayments between September 2018 and February 2019.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ms complaint and said that once Mr M entered into the DMP it 
could still default his account  and it would normally default an account once it was two to 
three months in arrears  but sometimes longer. Nationwide agreed to backdate the default 
date to August 2018 and so the missed payments from September 2018 to February 2019 
which were being reported on his credit file would be removed. Nationwide explained that it 
had agreed to backdate the default as a gesture of goodwill and not because it had made an 
error.
Mr M didnt agree with the resolution reached by Nationwide. He feels it was wrong of 
Nationwide to report missed payments on his credit file, and these should have been 
recorded as an arrangement to pay. Mr M would like compensating for the error he believes 
Nationwide made in reporting missed payments.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He agreed with Mr M that the account probably 
should have defaulted sooner than March 2019. And he thought that the missed payments 
probably should have also been recorded as an arrangement to pay. But given that 
Nationwide had already rectified the issue relatively quickly, and apologised for the 
inconvenience, he didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything else. 
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think that Nationwide had apologised appropriately for what 
happened and he didnt think that Nationwide had provided him with a suitable explanation 
as to why the error happened.
 
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Firstly, its worth noting what the ICO (Information Commissioners Office) says about when 
a default should be registered. It says that a default should be registered when a consumer 
is at least three months behind with their payments. And it would expect a default to be 
registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. Generally, 
this service would think it reasonable for a business to apply a default to someones account 
when it is in arrears anywhere between three to six months.
Looking at whats happened in this case, I can see that Mr M was making regular 
repayments to the account, although when he went into the DMP in August 2018, he was 
making reduced repayments. Because the amount he was paying was significantly lower 
than the contractual minimum repayment, the account went into arrears and eventually 
defaulted.
Because the account went into arrears, I dont think it was unreasonable of Nationwide to 
have defaulted it. Im minded agreeing that the default ought to have been recorded on Mr 
Ms credit file sooner than March 2019, given that this was just over six months of the 
account being in arrears. But Nationwide has remedied this by backdating the default date to 
when Mr M first went into a DMP  in my view, this seems fair and reasonable.
Mr M remains unhappy that Nationwide recorded missed payments on his credit file, when in 
fact he was making repayments  its just that they were at a reduced amount as agreed with 
Nationwide. I agree that it would have been more appropriate for Nationwide to record these 
differently  after all, Mr M didnt miss the payments, he just paid a reduced amount. But 
Nationwide has already rectified this by backdating the default and removing the record of 
the missed payments. So I dont think there is anything more for Nationwide to do in terms 
of making amendments to Mr Ms credit file. 
By Nationwide backdating the default, and removing the missed payments from his credit 
file, Mr M is now in a better position than he would have been if Nationwide had reported the 
default at a later date (which it could have done) and recorded the reduced repayments. 
Given that Nationwide has put Mr M in a better position than he would have been had it 
defaulted the account later and recorded an arrangement to pay, I dont think it needs to do 
more for Mr M. 
I can see that Nationwide has apologised to Mr M for any inconvenience it may have caused 
him  and I think this is sufficient. Generally, where a business has done something wrong, 
this service would ask it to put a consumer back in the position they would have been had it 
not gone wrong - this doesnt necessarily mean that we would ask a business to pay 
compensation. Ive already explained why I think Nationwide has done enough to remedy Mr 
Ms credit file. And I dont think that Mr M has been overly troubled or inconvenienced by 
what has happened. It follows that I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more for Mr 
M.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman