DRN-2912212
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his travel insurance claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents
. 
What happened
Mr K had travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer was UKI. In January 2020 he 
and his wife booked a trip abroad due to start mid-April 2020. They booked the flight and 
hotels independently. In March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic and 
the trip couldnt happen. 
Mr K received a refund for the UK airport hotel, the flights and one hotel in the relevant  
country. The other hotel abroad agreed not to charge Mr K the outstanding balance but 
rather than return the deposit hed paid, the hotel offered to postpone the stay until 
24 December 2020 with Mr K using the deposit towards that future booking. Mr K didnt 
accept the offer and claimed for the £186.24 deposit under the policy.
UKI declined the claim. It said as the hotel had offered Mr K the opportunity to rebook at a 
later date there had been no financial loss so there was no cover under the policy. It paid 
Mr K £50 compensation for some confusing information included in its initial claim decline 
letter.
Mr K complained to us. He said:
he had suffered a loss as the deposit was taken from his bank account
although he had a duty to mitigate the loss it wasnt reasonable for UKI to expect 
him to stay at the hotel before 24 December 2020 because the relevant country was 
still on the FCDOs banned list for travel
even if he was able to travel to stay at the hotel later in 2020 it would mean he would 
have to pay for travel and other hotels to get there.
Mr K wants UKI to pay his claim of £186.24, less the claim excess, and £200 compensation 
for having to make a complaint.
When our investigator came to make his recommendation it was after 24 December 2020  
so the hotels offer period had expired. He explained to Mr K that where the period for a hotel 
or travel providers offer/voucher/credit note had expired we generally think its reasonable 
for the policyholder to provide evidence that they have asked the provider for the 
offer/voucher/credit note period to be extended. If the provider refused or didnt respond to a 
reasonable number of the policyholders requests for an extension were likely to tell an 
insurer to reconsider the claim. Without such evidence it wouldnt be reasonable to tell UKI 
to pay the claim as the cost may still be recoverable. 
Mr K said he hadnt been in contact with the hotel since the offer period expired and didnt  
provide any further evidence. So our investigator said he couldnt reasonably ask UKI to pay 
the claim.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He sent a letter from the FCDO which 
said that on 15 March 2020 the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to the relevant 
country due to Covid-19 and that advice was still in place on 24 December 2020. Mr K said 
hed taken legal advice and had been told that he was under no obligation to ask the hotel to 
extend the time period for its offer. He emphasised that to take up the hotels offer he would 
have to pay for travel and other accommodation costs, likely more than the original cost, so 
he said the unrefunded deposit could reasonably be considered as irrecoverable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
On the evidence I have I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers hotel accommodation costs, up to the policy limit, if Mr Ks trip is cancelled 
due to FCDO advice against all but essential travel to his destination in the 28 days before 
the trip start date. The advice must have come into force after he opened his named bank 
account or booked the trip whichever is later. UKI doesnt dispute this provision applies.
However, theres a general exclusion in the policy, and a specific exclusion in the 
cancellation cover, that recoverable costs arent covered. The policy defines those as any 
costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
The hotels offer meant that in effect Mr K had recovered the deposit cost from the hotel as 
he could use the deposit as credit towards another booking. So when UKI considered Mr Ks  
claim in mid-2020 it could reasonably consider that he had no financial loss to claim. At that 
time the hotels offer was still valid for several months. The FCDOs letter from Mr K means 
the FCDOs advice against all but essential travel to the relevant country continued for the 
whole period of the offer. But UKI, or Mr K, couldnt have known that at the time UKI declined 
the claim. So at the time UKI declined the claim I think its decision was reasonable.
The period for the hotels offer has now expired. Its letter to Mr K said we can only 
postpone, without charge, your stay for any other date until 24th December 2020.
However, our investigator correctly explained that where a travel or accommodation 
providers offer/voucher/ credit notes period has expired our general approach is that we 
think its reasonable for a policyholder to provide evidence that theyve asked the provider 
whether they are prepared to extend the offer/voucher/credit note. And he correctly 
explained the likely outcome if the provider had refused to extend or hadnt responded to a 
reasonable number of requests from the policyholder.
Mr K says hes been legally advised that hes not obliged to ask the hotel to extend its offer. 
But the issue is that for me to reasonably say that UKI should reconsider the claim as an 
irrecoverable loss I need to be satisfied that the costs are irrecoverable. Although the hotels 
letter says its offer is only until 24 December 2020 our experience is that where a booking 
has been unused due to Covid-19 travel restrictions it's common for hotels to agree to 
extend its offer period for a considerable period of time, and if so were likely to think the costs are recoverable.
I understand Mr Ks point that even if the hotel did extend its offer period he would need to 
pay other, perhaps increased, travel related costs to use the offer. But I dont think that 
means the hotels offer would have no value to Mr K or the deposit was irrecoverable.
If Mr K had contacted the hotel to ask if it would extend its offer period, as I think it would 
have been be reasonable for him to do, the hotel may have refused or failed to reply to a 
reasonable number of requests from Mr K. If there had been such evidence I would have 
been likely to tell UKI to reconsider the claim as an irrecoverable loss. As there is no such 
evidence I dont think its fair and reasonable for me to say UKI should reconsider the claim 
as an irrecoverable loss and I dont uphold the complaint.
If Mr K now wishes to contact the hotel and then has evidence which he thinks helps his 
claim he may want to send that new evidence to UKI. It would then be reasonable for UKI to 
reconsider the claim in light of the new evidence.
Theres no basis for me to award Mr K any compensation for his distress and inconvenience 
due to making the complaint. I dont think UKI acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman