DRN-3164698
The complaint
 Miss D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) declined her chargeback 
request without her providing supporting evidence. She is unhappy with the amount of 
compensation offered
.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
There was clearly some confusion in how RBS dealt with Miss Ds chargeback 
request . It seems she was told her claim was out of time  there are strict timescales 
for submitting chargeback requests  when that wasnt the issue. But her claim 
seems then to have been rejected without her providing any supporting information . 
When our service got involved RBS asked for the information Miss D would have 
provided to support her claim. I think this was the correct approach to take. 
RBS  considered Miss Ds evidence but concluded that  even if it had had this 
information the chargeback request wouldnt have been successful. And I would have 
to agree with this. The procedure Miss D paid for took place. And  there is nothing in 
the documentation Miss D provided to show there was a guaranteed outcome of a  
30-50% reduction in her cats tumor .The other issues Miss D raised with the vet 
were customer service issues which werent the service she paid for.
RBS has credited Miss D with £30 compensation for the time she had to spend 
dealing with this and has also covered the cost of her phone calls .But  I think its 
reasonable to further compensate Miss D for the time she had to spend raising her 
chargeback request and the wrong information she was given which I think would 
have added caused her some distress. I am pleased that RBS has agreed to pay an 
additional £100 on our investigators recommendation. I think this is  fair.
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I upheld this complaint.
In full and final settlement, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc should pay Miss D £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman