Complaint
Mrs and Mr B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life 
insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be 
added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Mrs and Mr B dont remember ever agreeing to this type of policy.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mrs and Mr B with an answer about this 
complaint. They said that they didnt think the TMPP was mis-sold. Mrs and Mr B disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint.
I see Mrs and Mr B have used a third party company to help with their complaint and one of 
the complaint points relates to Mr B not being eligible for this type of cover. So Ill start by 
saying that although this was a joint mortgage, the PPI element was only taken out to cover 
Mrs B. Mr B wasnt covered by the PPI and so him not being eligible doesnt affect anything.
I then looked at what evidence there is that Halifax obtained the appropriate consent to set 
the policy up. We no longer have access to much of the paperwork involved, but thats not 
particularly unusual given this was over 17 years ago. Businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. Nevertheless, Ive been able to refer to some documentation and also 
screen shots from Halifaxs computer system. 
I can see, for example, that Mrs and Mr B (and indeed a mortgage guarantor) signed a 
declaration about the TMPP on 11 January 2002. I accept this form alone doesnt present 
very clear evidence of consent but it does say the following application will apply to any 
application you make for Total Mortgage Protection Plan. I also note from the computer 
records that Mrs B appears to have been asked questions associated with accident and 
unemployment cover (i.e. the PPI). Her answers appear to have been recorded 
contemporaneously on the screen which to me strongly suggests there was a discussion 
about insurances with the mortgage adviser.
DRN-1146746Ive also seen quite a few very similar sales to this and I know from these that Halifax tended 
to set out which (if any) TMPP products the consumer(s) had agreed to buy on a schedule 
which was sent to them. Consumers were also usually given details about the policy rules. I 
note Mrs and Mr B bought life and CIC cover too. Again, to me, this makes it far less likely 
she / they werent sent or given something explaining what they had agreed to buy. Overall I 
think what Mrs and Mr B would have been given would have been quite comprehensive.
I think all these things indicate its more likely Mrs and Mr B would have agreed and been 
able to see they had accepted certain elements of TMPP cover. I think this would have 
shown them that these were all optional products, not least because Mr B wasnt included in 
the PPI element. In short, I find it much more likely Halifax properly obtained their consent 
after a discussion about the insurance products they wanted to have. I accept Mrs and Mr B 
genuinely may not remember this after such a long time.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mrs B because Halifax recommended this to 
her as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable and I say this because she seems to 
have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these policies. 
Mrs B also said she already had some sickness protection with her job. Ive thought carefully 
about this and I understand the point thats being made. But Im afraid this doesnt mean the 
cover wasnt suitable for her. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and secured against her and Mr Bs new home. So the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if shed needed to claim. In 
my experience, this period is for longer than many PPI policies that were sold at the time and 
it was for much longer than the protection provided with her job.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies Ive seen, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was usually 
present. I accept we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Mrs and Mr B, but I 
think its more likely they would have known what the cover was costing.
Having carefully considered this case, I think its more likely that Mrs and Mr B tailored the 
cover to suit their needs of the time. I think they probably agreed to the policy because it was 
something they thought would be useful to have at the time. The fact they bought other types 
of protection adds weight to my view.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint and I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman