DRN-2713279
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him Graduate 
Additions and Current Account Plus (CAP) packaged bank accounts. Mr G has also 
complained that Barclays mis-sold him a Tech Pack. The accounts and Pack were sold in 
November 2005, February 2010 and May 2016 respectively.
Mr G says he was told he would need to change his account as he graduated, and was told 
the only way to keep his overdraft was by agreeing to take out a fee-paying account. Mr G 
says the same thing happened in 2010. He says he wanted an overdraft and was made to 
pay for another packaged account to get one. Mr G is also unhappy that the Tech Pack was 
added to his account in 2016.
What happened
Barclays initially investigated the sale of the two packaged accounts (but not the Tech Pack) 
and agreed that the Graduate Additions account was mis-sold. So it arranged for the 
Graduate Additions account fees that Mr G paid - plus 8% simple interest  to be refunded 
back to him. But Barclays did not think the CAP account was mis-sold.
After Mr G contacted our service, Barclays apologised for not looking into the sale of the 
Tech Pack and explained (to our service) that it didnt think the Tech Pack had been mis-
sold either.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint. She did not look into the sale of the 
Graduate Additions account, as Barclays had already done what we wouldve recommended 
had we found that itd been mis-sold. But the adjudicator didnt think that the CAP, or the 
Tech Pack, had been mis-sold. 
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
As the complaint about the Graduate Additions account has been resolved, I wont address 
that sale in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I would also like to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Current Account Plus
Mr G has said that he was told that hed need to change his account to a fee-paying CAP if 
he wanted to continue with his overdraft. Whereas Barclays says that it has no evidence to 
suggest that Mr G was incorrectly told he had to have a packaged account to keep his 
overdraft. Barclays points out that Mr G had previously had an arranged overdraft on his 
account when it was a fee-free account, so believes Mr G wouldve been aware that he did 
not have to have a packaged account to have an overdraft when the CAP was sold to him. 
Barclays also says that the interest-free overdraft facility that Mr G held on his existing 
Graduate Additions account (which cost £7 per month) wouldve reduced to £200 by the time 
hed agreed to the CAP. 
Having considered what both parties have said and provided, I think its more likely that Mr G 
agreed to the CAP because it provided a similar interest free overdraft benefit for a cheaper 
monthly cost  rather than because he thought he had no choice but to have the account to 
retain his agreed overdraft limit. I say this because its clear that Mr Gs overdraft facility was 
discussed with him during the sale. The interest-free overdraft benefits of the Graduate 
Additions account had significantly reduced by 2010 - due to how long Mr G had held it since 
graduating. And by agreeing to the CAP, Mr G was able to continue to receive the benefit of 
the up to £300 interest-free overdraft benefit, but for £2 less per month, than what he was 
already paying at the time. So I think its likely Mr G agreed to the CAP so that he was able 
to retain an interest and charge-free overdraft facility on his account, rather than to retain an 
overdraft. 
Mr G has said that Barclays recommended the account to him. However, although I dont 
doubt that the account cost and benefits were discussed with him, I cant see that Barclays 
assessed his insurance needs, or recommended he take out the account because it would 
meet his insurance needs. As such, I think the account was likely to have been sold on a 
non-advised basis. This means Barclays was not required to check if the account benefits 
met his personal circumstances. But it was required to give him enough information about 
the account so he could decide for himself whether it was worth taking out.
I cant be sure what exactly was discussed during the sale. But Mr G seems to have been 
aware of the cost of the account from the outset. And Barclays has provided a copy of a 
welcome letter sent to Mr G shortly after the sale that refers to the mobile phone insurance, 
card protection and extended warranty insurance that were included as benefits with the 
account. And it appears that Mr G was told about the up to £300 interest free overdraft 
benefit that was included with the account too. So I think he was, at the very least, made 
aware of what the account included and the cost. 
I appreciate that Mr G may not have been made aware of all the details of the account 
during the sale. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that makes me think that 
he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been given more information about it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think the CAP was mis-sold. On the contrary, I 
think its more likely that Mr G was told about the cost and benefits it provided and was 
attracted to the overdraft benefit in particular. So overall, I dont think the CAP was mis-sold 
and I therefore dont think Barclays should refund Mr G the monthly CAP fees.
Tech Pack
Mr G has said the Tech Pack was mis-sold. Mr G has not said too much about why exactly 
he thinks it was mis-sold  although he appears to be raising the same complaint point that 
he raised for the previous accounts i.e. that he had to have it to keep his overdraft.The Tech Pack was not actually sold to Mr G. Instead, Barclays had decided to withdraw the 
CAP and so wrote to all account holders to explain that their accounts would be changed to 
a fee-free account. However, to ensure existing account holders were able to continue to 
receive similar levels of insurance cover, Barclays added a Tech Pack to the affected 
accounts. Barclays gave all account holders the option to opt out of adding the Tech Pack to 
their account, should they no longer want or need the insurance cover.
Barclays was able to do this  providing it clearly explained what changes were going to be 
made to the account. And Barclays also had to give all the affected account holders enough 
notice of the changes that were due to take place, so that they could decide what to do.
Barclays has provided copies of the migration letters it says it sent to Mr G. The first letter 
was dated 26 February 2016. This explained that Mr Gs account would be changed to a fee-
free account with a Tech Pack added, and it also explained the cost of the Tech Pack would 
be £9.50 i.e. increased from £6.50 per month that hed previously been paying for the CAP. 
It also explained that, if Mr G chose to opt out of adding the Tech Pack to his account, his 
overdraft limit would remain unchanged - but no part of it would be free to use. Barclays has 
provided another letter that it had sent to Mr G on 13 May 2016. This confirmed that Mr Gs 
account had changed to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack added.
Both of these letters look to be correctly addressed. As such, I think that Barclays did what it 
needed to do, to inform Mr G of these changes that were made to his account in good time. 
It therefore follows that I dont think itd be appropriate to require Barclays to refund the Tech 
Pack fees that Mr G paid since May 2016.
Finally, I can see that Mr G has asked that we consider the inconvenience caused to him by 
pursing this complaint. Mr G says that Barclays failed to consider part of his complaint and 
also didnt respond to him in a timely manner. I understand that these matters wouldve been 
frustrating for him. But there is a natural element of distress and inconvenience caused when 
making any complaint. And when considering the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think an award of compensation (beyond what Barclays has already agreed to do) is 
warranted on this occasion.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr G, as I can see he feels very strongly about 
this matter. I also understand this may be frustrating, as Barclays had upheld his complaint 
about the earlier Graduate Additions account. But we look at each sale individually and for 
the reasons given above I dont think the CAP or the Tech Pack that were later added to his 
account were mis-sold. But I hope I have been able to explain the reasons why I am unable 
to find in his favour on this occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint and therefore, I dont think 
that Barclays Bank UK Plc needs to do anything more, than what it has already agreed to 
do, to put matters right in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman