DRN-2813921
The complaint
Mrs S complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited have unfairly turned down part of her 
claim on her pet insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it 
Ive just referred to them in this decision. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mrs S cat was involved in a fight and in June 2020 was treated by her vet to 
repair the wounds caused. The initial surgery wasnt successful, as Mrs S cat had an 
existing cyst, which was preventing the wounds from healing  so a second operation was 
carried out to remove the cyst. 
Mrs S claimed for the cost of the operations. Acromas paid for the first operation which after 
deducting the excess of £60 came to £962.13. But they said they wouldnt pay for the 
second operation costing £772.36 because the condition was first noted over 12 months ago 
and is excluded. Mrs S said the purpose of the operation to remove the cyst was solely 
because of the wounds sustained. Acromas said theyd review things if Mrs S vet got in 
touch, which they did  and then still turned down the claim because they said the vet had 
recommended surgery to remove the cyst previously which Mrs S hadnt taken up.
Mrs S said this wasnt true, the advice from her vet was specifically not to have the surgery  
and after Acromas maintained their decision to turn down her claim she complained.
 
Acromas said the policy terms allowed Mrs S to claim up to £2,000 per condition for a 
maximum of 12 months  and once the monetary or time limit is reached then the condition 
is excluded. They said the cyst had been present for more than 12 months, so treatment was 
outside the 12-month limit. Acromas said during their review theyd contacted Mrs S vets, 
whod said surgery was discussed which Mrs S had turned down. 
Mrs S got back in touch with her vet, who told Acromas theyd based their decision on a 
wrong understanding of the facts so the claim should be reassessed. As Acromas didnt 
reply to this, Mrs S asked us to look into things. She said the essence of her complaint is 
that the reason for the treatment to remove the cyst was because of the fight and wasnt 
cyst-specific as Acromas had said when she was discussing things with them.
One of our investigators considered things and explained the dates Acromas had quoted in 
their response were incorrect, but what theyd said was still correct about Mrs S turning 
down surgery because of her cats age  as thats what the medical history said. And, she 
felt Acromas had acted fairly in turning down this portion of the claim under the policy terms 
 as the cyst should have been removed according to the medical history in 2019. 
Mrs S reiterated her comments the treatment for removal of the cyst was directly as a result 
of the fight, so it should be covered. She also felt Acromas saying shed been repeatedly 
offered surgery and turned it down to be wrong. She added that the vet specifically said they 
didnt recommend surgery, but if the cyst was refilling more frequently than every 3-6 months 
then surgery should be considered. And that the vet had said the cyst had to come off 
because of the fight with there being no way to correct the fight wound injury without getting 
the cyst out. 
Our investigator felt the medical notes did show the cyst would have to be removed at some 
point  so asked for Mrs S comments on these.
After Mrs S had reviewed them, she said its worth saying that her dispute is Acromas 
assertion the operation was to treat the cyst  when it wasnt as confirmed by her vet. She 
said the medical history doesnt say she was recommended or offered surgery by the vet, 
but rather surgery should be considered if the cyst became a problem. Mrs S added the cyst 
was being drained satisfactorily and wasnt causing her cat any other problems so she felt 
the claim should be met. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain if Im satisfied Acromas have applied the policy terms fairly 
then I wont be requiring them to meet the claim. 
The policy terms Acromas have relied on to turn down this element of the claim say:
The cost of any treatment your pet receives more than 12 months after the date the illness or 
injury first showed clinical signs and symptoms
The first mention of the cyst in the medical history is on 7 February 2018, and the treatment 
Mrs S is claiming for took place on June 2020  so outside the 12-month time period.
I dont think Acromas have ever particularly explained this term very well to Mrs S. But what 
it means is because the treatment was for the cyst, and it was outside the 12-month 
timeframe from when it was first noted, the policy terms dont cover it. Essentially Acromas 
have applied a strict 12-month period to say that as the cyst (illness or injury for the 
purposes of the policy terms Ive quoted above) was noted on 7 February 2018 anything 
after 7 February 2019 relating to the cyst wont be covered. I dont think Acromas have acted 
unfairly in doing so  as its not in dispute the cyst was first noted more than 12-months 
before the claim.
I do fully appreciate Mrs S point that the treatment was to fix wounds caused as a result of 
the attack  and the cause of the second operation was still related to the attack. But it 
seems the only reason the second operation was needed, was due to the presence of the 
cyst itself. This is confirmed in the medical notes Mrs S has seen  as the notes say Mrs S 
was warned a second operation may be needed to remove the cyst if it continues to cause 
problems.
So, although I do take Mrs S point that the only reason her cat needed operations was due 
to the fight, it seems the second operation was only needed due to the presence of the cyst. 
And, as Ive explained above, thats excluded under the policy terms.
I also note theres been conversations over whether Mrs S did or didnt agree for her cat to 
have an operation to remove the cyst after itd been noticed and before the attack. And I do 
think Mrs S and her cat has been very unlucky that the attack just happened to be in the 
same place as the cyst. But as I think Acromas have acted fairly in applying the policy terms 
I wont be telling them to pay the claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman