DRN-2755883
The complaint
Mrs W complains that, in 1998, Zurich Assurance Ltd (trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance) 
failed to provide her with appropriate advice and information about making additional 
contributions to her pension savings.  
What happened
Mrs W has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But 
for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Mrs W herself.
Mrs W was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In May 1998 she met 
with Zurich to discuss making additional provision for her retirement. The information Mrs W 
provided at the time showed that she was;
Was 32 years old.
Was Married.
Worked as a teacher.
Had a salary of £23,000.
Had been a member of her occupational pension scheme for ten years.
Wanted to retire at 55.  
Zurich recommended that Mrs W take out its free standing additional voluntary contribution 
(FSAVC) plan. Mrs W accepted that advice, and started contributing to the FSAVC plan in 
September 1998. She continued to make contributions until September 2008.
Mrs W complained that Zurich had failed to provide her with a suitable recommendation in 
1998. In particular she says that Zurich failed to provide her with sufficient information about 
the additional voluntary contribution (AVC) options offered by the OPS. Zurich didnt agree 
with Mrs Ws complaint and said that it had followed the regulatory guidelines in place at the 
time the FSAVC plan was sold.
Mrs Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think the 
information that Zurich had provided to Mrs W about the likely differences in costs between 
the AVC and FSAVC plans was sufficient to meet the regulatory guidelines. And, since she 
thought that cost was likely to have been a key factor in Mrs Ws decision, she thought the 
advice Zurich had provided was unsuitable. So she asked Zurich to put things right for 
Mrs W.
Zurich didnt agree with that assessment. It thought that the information it had given to 
Mrs W had been sufficient to meet the regulators requirements. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mrs W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs W and by Zurich. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at the evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
In order to decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Zurich complied with the 
applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. If it didnt, I then need to 
decide what difference that made. In particular, would Mrs W have directed her additional 
pension contributions to an AVC arrangement provided by the OPS?
The advice was provided by Zurich over two meetings in 1998. So the relevant regulatory 
guidance was contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was 
produced by the Personal Investment Authority, one of the predecessors to the current 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for 
advising clients on the relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs provided by occupational 
pension schemes. The guidance set out different requirements depending on whether the 
adviser was an independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is employed by, or 
contracted to, one organisation and can only recommend and sell that organisations 
products. In this case the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
- drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
- discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking 
account, among other things, of the features described in this article); and
- directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys 
FSAVC.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVCs would usually be lower. The regulator indicated that it would expect the advice file to have 
documentary evidence demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been followed.
So Zurich needed to make Mrs W aware of the in-house AVC and to discuss the generic 
features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve expected 
Zurich to discuss with Mrs W would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-house AVC. 
I would also expect Mrs W to have been directed to her employer and/or occupational 
pension scheme trustee to obtain more information on her in-house options.
From the paperwork provided, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that the 
procedures required by the update have been followed. There is very little documentation of 
what, or even whether a, discussion took place about the differences between in-house 
AVCs and the FSAVC. Zurich points to a booklet it provided (that I will discuss later) and the 
fact Mrs W signed a recommendation saying shed been given it and that she understood 
her choices. But theres nothing in the recommendation about charges, and nothing about 
any detailed discussions. So Im not persuaded I can reasonably say Zurich did enough 
here. Since Im unable to determine what was discussed. Im not persuaded I should 
conclude that the guidance was followed.
I dont think simply providing a booklet is enough for Zurich to comply with the regulators 
requirements either, as the guidance requires discussion, not just the provision of 
information. And like our investigator, I think the booklet could be misleading as although it 
does indicate that charges are usually lower for in-house AVCs than its FSAVC it then goes 
on to say in the same paragraph that over the life of the plan these may even out. In my 
view, this implies that there may be no difference in the overall charges, which I dont think is 
consistent with the guidance requirement.
So Im not persuaded that Zurich complied with the guidance in relation to the sale of the 
FSAVC to Mrs W. I now need to decide whether, if Mrs W had been appropriately advised, it 
wouldve made a difference. In other words, would she have taken out an in-house AVC 
instead?
I can see from the information provided that Mrs W indicated that she wished to retire at 55, 
and that this would be 5 years before her normal pension age in her occupational scheme. 
The recommendations document completed by Zurich indicates that Mrs Ws reasons for 
wanting an FSAVC over joining the in-house AVC at her employer were based around 
retiring earlier than the age set by her employers scheme. This may suggest that the 
recommendation to take out an FSAVC remained suitable, notwithstanding the difference in 
charges. But Mrs Ws proposed retirement age was still more than 20 years away  I doubt 
she would have had much certainty over her plans so far into the future.
Given the regulators view that a critical factor that drove the choice between FSAVCs and 
AVCs was that the fees were usually lower, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs W 
wouldve chosen to contribute to the AVC through her occupational scheme if shed been 
properly advised. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs W had any expectation that 
she was likely to change professions in the future and so be unable to contribute to the AVC. 
So I dont think that Zurich did enough to provide Mrs W with the information she needed to 
decide upon its recommendation. And I think that if it had met its responsibilities under the 
regulations Mrs W would most likely have chosen to use the OPS AVC scheme to receive 
her additional pension contributions. So I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Zurich needs to put 
things right.
Putting things rightZurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.  
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman