DRN-3707426
The complaint
Mr E and Ms C are unhappy that AWP P&C SA has declined claims made under Mr Es 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E has the benefit of a multi-trip travel insurance policy, through his bank account, which 
covers him, his spouse and dependent children. Mr Es explained that he had two skiing 
holidays booked  staying in the same chalet for both trips. 
The first skiing holiday was from 14 March 2020. Mr E was going on this holiday alone, with 
his son due to join him during the week. And, following that, friends were coming to join him 
too.
Mr E had a flight booked to return to the UK on 18 March 2020  but the chalet he was 
staying in, was booked for his use until 21 March 2020. Mr E said this was because he was 
going to look into extending his stay past 18 March 2020 whilst abroad, given friends were 
planning on joining him.
Mr E flew out on his trip as planned. But shortly after arriving at the chalet, the government in 
the country he was staying took the decision to close ski resorts in the country, in response 
to the Coronavirus. So, Mr E said his plans for this holiday werent able to go ahead. His 
son, on learning the resorts were closed, didnt book flights and his friends could no longer 
come and join him.
Mr E said because of the above he sought to return home earlier than planned. But he 
wasnt able to secure an earlier flight. So, he returned home on his pre-booked flight on 18 
March 2020. Mr E said his holiday was effectively curtailed, given the above. 
The second skiing holiday was booked from 11 April 2020 to 18 April 2020. Flights were 
booked for Mr E, Ms C and their dependent children. But they werent able to travel on this 
holiday at all, because of government restrictions in relation to coronavirus.
Because of the above, Mr E contacted his insurer to make claims for the cost of the pre-
booked accommodation. AWP asked for a range of information from Mr E, and then declined 
the claims. 
AWP declined the claims because it said that Mr E actually owned the chalet he had booked, 
and whilst he leased this out to a ski company, and rented it back for the weeks abroad, he 
was experiencing a loss of income, rather than a loss of pre-paid holiday accommodation. 
And it said the insurance policy didnt cover this. 
Mr E didnt agree. He explained that he did own the chalet. But, that for a number of years 
he had leased the property to a ski company, for a set fee. This set fee was paid to Mr E 
each year. If Mr E wanted to stay in the chalet, he had to book the accommodation, and pay 
for it. Mr E explained this was like any other paying customer. And so, he said it wasnt a 
loss of rental income he had experienced. Rather, he and Ms C had paid for trips that were 
impacted, or cancelled, due to the Coronavirus.
Mr E complained to AWP. But it maintained its position. Mr E remained dissatisfied. And so, 
Mr E and Ms C referred their complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it part of it should be upheld. In terms of 
the trip in March 2020, our investigator said AWP hadnt done anything wrong. Mr E had 
gone on his trip and hadnt curtailed it. His trip was from 14 March to 18 March 2020, based 
on the flights, and Mr E returned home as planned. In reference to this claim, our 
investigator also explained there was no insured event under the curtailment part of the 
policy that would mean the claim was covered. And there was no cover under the policy for 
piste closure, unless this was due to too much or too little snow.
In reference to the holiday in April 2020, our investigator thought AWP had acted unfairly. 
They said Mr E and Ms Cs holiday was cancelled because of Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office advice (FCDO), and this was an insured event under the policy. Our 
investigator said that it wasnt a loss of income that Mr E and Ms C had experienced. But 
instead, it was costs they had paid for pre-booked accommodation  regardless of the fact 
Mr E owned the chalet. So, the investigator considered that AWP should settle this claim, in 
line with the remaining terms of the policy. And pay 8% interest from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement on this.
Mr E and Ms C didnt agree. They still felt Mr Es trip in March 2020 should be covered by 
the policy. AWP didnt agree either. It still considered Mr E and Ms C suffered a loss of 
earnings, not a loss of pre-booked accommodation. And they said there was an exclusion in 
the policy for accommodation costs paid for using timeshare, holiday property bond, other 
holiday point schemes, or maintenance and other contractual fees.
Our investigator responded, maintaining her thoughts. And as neither party agreed with the 
outcome arrived at, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties, explaining my thoughts. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether AWP, in declining Mr E and Ms Cs claims, acted in line with these 
requirements. 
I dont think AWP acted fairly in declining Mr E and Ms Cs claims. Ive explained why below. 
March 2020 trip 
Ive reviewed Mr E and Ms Cs policy documentation. As is usual with policies of the nature, I 
can see it doesnt cover every eventuality. Rather, for a claim to be successful, the loss 
needs to have happened because of an insured event listed within the policy booklet. Ive reviewed the covered events within the policy. And I can see the policy does provide 
cover for curtailment, in certain situations. This includes for having to curtail a trip due to:
The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the equivalent government authority in the 
beneficiarys country or residence advising against all travel or all but essential travel to 
the beneficiarys intended destination
Ive looked into the FCDO advice, as well as the advice in the country Mr E was in at the 
time. From doing so, Im aware that the FCDO didnt advise against all, or all but essential 
travel, until after Mr E had left for his trip. And it wasnt until 23 March 2020 that the FCDO 
told UK residents it should be returning home from abroad. So, Im aware there was no 
FCDO guidance between 14 March 2020 and 18 March 2020, that meant Mr E had to curtail 
his trip.
However, I do think there was advice in the equivalent government authority that effectively 
advised against all or all but essential travel. And therefore, curtailed Mr Es trip. The 
government in that country, said that from midnight on 14 March 2020 all non-essential 
public places, including ski resorts, bar, restaurants and most shops needed to close. And, 
on 16 March 2020, the government imposed a nationwide lockdown. People leaving their 
home were required to produce a document, to justify their movement. Given this, I do think 
that from midnight on 14 March 2020, Mr Es holiday was effectively curtailed. He had come 
on a ski holiday  and was unable to ski or do any of the other activities that would have 
been part of the trip  such as eating out. The only facilities open would have been medical 
or for grocery shopping. 
I recognise that as per the curtailment definition in the policy means cutting short the trip and 
returning home. And that Mr E did still come home on his original flight. But Mr E has said he 
did try to come home on an earlier flight. But he couldnt secure one. So, he had no choice 
but to return on his original flight. Im satisfied this is reasonable and likely  given the abrupt 
change in government advice, and the number of holidaymakers that wouldnt have been 
able to continue their trip as planned. So, whilst Mr E couldnt actually return home early, I 
consider it fair and reasonable to consider Mr Es trip effectively curtailed. The situation was 
more than a mere lack of enjoyment of the trip, which wouldnt be covered. Mr E wasnt able 
to carry out the holiday booked, given the closures in the country. Given this, I think it would 
be a fair and reasonable for AWP to deal with this claim.
AWP has said they dont think Mr E suffered a loss of pre-booked accommodation, which is 
what the curtailment cover provides for. Its said Mr E has in fact suffered a loss of earnings. 
Ive thought about this. And I dont agree. 
It is the case that Mr E owns the chalet he stayed in. But Ive seen a contract between him 
and a ski company. This ski company leases the chalet from Mr E. And, if Mr E wishes to 
holiday in the chalet, he isnt able to make that decision without approval. He must let the ski 
company know he wishes to book a holiday in the chalet  and he must pay for the use.
Whilst Mr E received a set amount of money for the chalet being leased each year, and the 
cost of this trip was deducted from what the ski company owed him in this respect, it doesnt 
mean this was a loss of earnings. Mr Es set amount of money reduced because he was 
paying for a holiday. And his trip was effectively curtailed, meaning a loss in terms of pre-
booked accommodation he had paid for. Mr E could just of easily have paid for the 
accommodation through another method  such as a credit card  and would still receive the 
set amount of money from the ski company. 
Its important to note - Im aware Mr E had booked the chalet for the full week, until 21 March 
2020. And was seeking to recover the cost of this whole week from AWP. But Mr Es flight home was booked for 18 March 2020. And I havent seen any evidence Mr Es flight was 
changed to a later one. So, I dont think AWP acted unfairly in noting any claim considered 
would be for losses from 14 March 2020 to 18 March 2020. And not for the remainder of the 
week. 
AWP has said also said Mr Es costs were recoverable elsewhere. It said as the trip was pre-
booked accommodation, and booked with a UK company, the ski company should provide 
Mr E with a refund. But I dont agree that Mr Es costs were recoverable elsewhere. Mr E has 
provided documentation from the ski company, showing that he attempted to receive a 
refund from it, but it refused to do this. This ski company explained why that was the case  
this being that the terms and conditions didnt allow for a refund. Which Ive seen is the case.
And, Im aware the trip, and ski company, isnt covered by a scheme such as ABTA, for Mr E 
to raise a dispute with the ski company for this. And I wouldnt expect Mr E to have to take 
steps such as taking the ski company to court when he has an insurance policy here. He has 
shown hes taken steps to recover the money, and it hasnt been possible.
AWP has also said the policy doesnt provide cover for accommodation paid for by 
timeshare, holiday property bond, or other holiday points scheme. But I cant see this 
exclusion is relevant here. Mr E didnt pay for this holiday via those methods. So, this doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
Given the above, my intended decision is to require AWP to settle Mr Es claim for his chalet 
accommodation, from 15 March 2020 (when the government guidance effectively curtailed 
his trip) to 18 March 2020, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Im 
also intending on requiring AWP to provide Mr E with 8% interest simple per annum on this 
claim payment, from the date of claim, to the date of settlement, less any tax deductible, to 
recognise the Mr E had been without the funds he should have been paid, and that he could 
have used elsewhere.
April 2020 trip
In terms of Mr E and Ms Cs trip in April 2020  Mr E and Ms C have said they had to cancel 
their holiday, because of government restrictions in relation to Coronavirus. 
Ive reviewed the government guidance at this time. On 11 April 2020, when Mr E, Ms C and 
their children were due to travel the FCDO guidance was against all but essential travel 
abroad. So, Im satisfied this was the reason they had to cancel their trip.
As above, Mr E and Ms Cs policy provides cover for cancellation, as well as curtailment of a 
trip. And the cancellation cover does provide for cancellation of a trip where the FCDO have 
advised against all, or all but essential travel. Given this, Im satisfied there was an insured 
event, covered by the policy here.
AWP has raised that it also isnt settling this claim, because it was a loss of earnings, rather 
than pre-booked accommodation. That the loss was recoverable elsewhere, and that the 
policy doesnt provide cover for holidays booked through timeshare, holiday property bond or 
another points scheme. But I dont consider that to be the case in relation to this claim either. 
My reasoning for this is the same as with the March 2020 trip, explained above. So, I dont 
think AWP has acted fairly in declining this claim, for these reasons, either. 
Given the above, my intended decision to require AWP to settle Mr Es claim for his chalet 
accommodation, from 11 April 2020 to 18 April 2020, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Im also intending on requiring AWP to provide Mr E with 8% interest 
simple per annum on this claim payment, from the date of claim, to the date of settlement, less any tax deductible, to recognise the Mr E had been without the funds he should have 
been paid, and that he could have used elsewhere.
I should highlight, that in relation to both claims, the invoices provided for the trips were 
based on the full price of the trip booking, this being what the cost of booking the chalet 
would have been to the general public. But Ive seen emails between Mr E and the ski 
company negotiating on the price of the trips  with a discounted amount being given for four 
weeks Mr E was booking that year. So, Im aware Mr E and Ms C didnt pay full retail price 
for the time claimed for. Given this, Mr E and Mrs C will need to provide evidence of what 
they actually paid for the periods of time, Ive noted should be settled under the policy.
Mr E responded, on behalf of him and Mrs C. He accepted the provisional decision and 
provided some further documents in relation to his pre-booked trips. 
AWP responded and didnt agree. In summary, it maintained that if it was to settle claims, it 
would be setting a loss of income, rather than the loss of funds for a pre-booked holiday. 
AWP said losses of rental income would normally be covered under a landlord policy, rather 
than a travel one. It said that Mr E had already benefited at the start of the year from rental 
income for the property. And said his decision to use it during the above times was a loss of 
rental income.
AWP also said that in settling the claims it would be breaching the principle of indemnity that 
insurance is based on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as that in my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons. So, Ill not repeat this in detail here.
But I have considered AWPs concerns and addressed these below.
AWP has said that insurance is based on the principle of indemnity. This being, that an 
insurance policy should put a policyholder back to the position they were in before their loss, 
and not put them in a worse, or better off position. AWP has said that in settling Mr Es 
claims in line with my decision, it will be breaching this principle. It says that Mr E would be 
in a better position than before his claim.
It says this will be because hell receive the income for his chalet for those weeks. But I dont 
agree the principle is breached here. AWP wouldnt be putting Mr E in a better or worse off 
position or settling Mr Es loss of income. Instead, it would be settling the cost he had paid to 
the ski company for renting the property at the relevant times. 
The fact Mr E owns the chalet and receives a rental income for it is separate to his holiday 
bookings. Mr E was due to receive the rental income for his property, no matter what. He 
receives a set income each year for the property  no matter whether the ski company 
manages to rent it out, or not. It is the ski company that takes on that risk  and Mr E 
relinquishes his right to the property. 
If Mr E wants to use the chalet, he has to pay for it. Just like any other customer. So, it isnt a 
case of him not receiving rental income as agreed for these weeks. But, rather, he has 
undertaken a separate agreement to rent the property. And this is what Mr E is claiming for here. Not the cost of the rental income  but the cost he paid to book the accommodation for 
the relevant time periods. 
Mr E pre-booked the accommodation with the ski-company, and for the reasons discussed 
above, he wasnt able to make use of his bookings. And so, suffered a loss of outgoings 
spent on his trips.
I understand that Mr Es method of payment was for the cost of his booking to be deducted 
for the amount the ski company owed to him. But it could just as easily have been paid 
another way  through a credit or debit card for example. But either way, Mr B rented the 
property, for his trip, for a fee. And, as explained in my provisional decision he suffered a 
loss in relation to this, for both his trips in March and April 2020. So, my decision remains the 
same in terms of settling those losses.  
AWP has raised whether the situation would be different in Mr E didnt have a lease 
agreement with the ski company, with a set, upfront fee. And instead income was provided 
on the basis of bookings as they came, with the weeks Mr E wanted the property being 
blocked out. When coming to my decision, I can only consider what happened in the 
circumstances of the case. And Mr E booked these weeks for a fee. He isnt claiming for 
funds because the property was empty or unrented. So, this doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
Its important to note that in my provisional decision I said that Mr Es invoices provided were 
based on the full price of a trip booking, this being what the cost of booking the chalet would 
have been to the general public. But that Id seen emails between Mr E and the ski company 
negotiating on the price of the trips  with a discounted amount being given for four weeks 
Mr E was booking that year. So, I said I was aware Mr E and Mrs C didnt pay full retail price 
for the time claimed. And that Mr E and Mrs C would need to provide evidence of what they 
actually paid for the periods of time that I said should be settled under the policy.
Mr E has provided some invoices following this. Mr E and Mrs C will need to send this to 
AWP, and it will need to consider these, to ensure they evidence the payment Mr E agreed 
to for the times mentioned above, as part of its settlement of the claims, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And, should AWP need further evidence of 
this, it will need to ask for it.
My final decision
Given the above, Im upholding this complaint and requiring AWP P&C SA to:
Settle Mr Es claim for his chalet accommodation, from 15 March 2020 to 18 March 
2020, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Settle Mr Es claim for his chalet accommodation, from 11 April 2020 to 18 April 
2020, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay 8% interest, simple per annum, on the above amount, from the date of the 
claims, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
If HM Revenue & Customers requires AWP P&C SA to deduct tax from this interest, 
AWP P&C SA should give Mr E and Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted, if they ask for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 Rachel Woods
Ombudsman