DRN-3833948
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco Bank) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to her 
purchase of some solar panels.
Miss H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Miss H bought solar panels for her home in November 2015 (together with some optional 
extras). She paid the deposit with cash and paid for the balance with her Tesco Bank credit 
card, and so that business is liable under the Act for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the installer.
In May 2021 Miss H asked Tesco Bank for compensation under section 75. She said the 
installer had misled her into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
werent, largely because the panels had not been registered for feed-in tariff (FIT) payments. 
She also said that she hadnt registered for FIT payments because the installers salesman 
had told her that this would be taken care of for her.
Tesco Bank said there was no evidence that the salesman had told her that. The installer 
had provided her with the necessary paperwork for her to register the panels herself, so the 
onus had been on her. The panels had not been self-funding because she had not been 
receiving FIT payments. But Tesco Bank did accept that the savings on Miss Hs electricity 
bills had been a little lower than estimated at the point of sale, and so to compensate her for 
that it offered her £274.71.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Miss H brought this complaint to our service. Some 
time later, she added that the salesman had told her that the panels would pay for 
themselves within five to ten years.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator upheld this complaint. She believed 
Miss Hs version of events, and found that the sales documentation showed that the panels 
would pay for themselves within about eight years. She thought that if Miss H had been told 
that she had to register for FIT payments then she would have done so, so the fact that she 
hadnt suggested that nobody had told her. The result was that she had missed out on most 
of the potential income from the panels. She also noted that the savings on Miss Hs energy 
bills had been about £50 a year less than estimated. So she recommended that Tesco Bank 
pay Miss H compensation for her loss.
Tesco Bank did not agree. It asked where the self-funding timescale of five to ten years had 
come from, since this had not been mentioned earlier (the CMC answered that this was 
Miss Hs recollection of the sales meeting). Tesco Bank suggested that this had been made 
up, or else it would have been mentioned in the initial claim. It pointed out that Miss H had 
had until 2019 to register for FIT payments (being the year that the FIT scheme was closed 
to new applicants). Miss H had also purchased LED light bulbs with the panels, which had 
made further savings, but the adjudicator had not taken these into account (but as a matter 
of fact I can see that she did). There was no evidence that anyone had told Miss H that the 
installer would register the panels, and as it is always the case that the consumer has to 
register them, it was very unlikely that the salesman would have told her otherwise; nor 
would there have been any reason for him to. The installers website says it is the 
customers responsibility. Furthermore, even if that had been said, that would not be a 
misrepresentation, as it would not have induced Miss H to make the purchase.
These arguments did not change the adjudicators mind. In particular, there was an earlier 
deadline that Miss H had needed to meet  March 2016  and so she did not think that 
Miss H would have noticed by then that she was not receiving her quarterly FIT payments.
Since no agreement had been reached, the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows (I have since edited one sentence for 
clarity).
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently minded to uphold this 
complaint in part. I will explain why.
I will begin with the self-funding point, which I have decided in Miss Hs favour. The 
installers quote states that the total price of the panels, including the optional extras, is 
£6,895. It goes on to give an estimate of the income and savings that the panels and other 
equipment (which included the LED bulbs) would make: a total of £819:63.1 Since this is 
clearly more than one tenth of the total price, the solar equipment was certainly expected to 
pay for its cash price in less than ten years  in about eight years and five months. So it is 
plausible than the salesman told her so, but whether he did or not doesnt really matter, 
since the paperwork says as much.
It is not in dispute that the savings on Miss Hs energy bills have been a bit less than 
estimated. Tesco Bank accepted that this was a misrepresentation and made an offer before 
Miss H brought this complaint to our service. That offer was calculated as follows:
The total shortfall over 69 months (being the time that had passed since the sale) 
was £301.88.
91% of the purchase price had been paid with the Tesco Bank credit card, and Tesco 
Bank was concerned that the balance might have been paid with credit provided by a 
third party, so it was only willing to pay 91% of the shortfall, which was £274.71.
I can understand why Tesco Bank did it like that. But under section 75 Tesco Bank is liable 
for 100% of the compensation that the installer owes Miss H  it doesnt have to be reduced 
pro rata to the proportion of the purchase price that was paid using credit provided by Tesco 
Bank. So I think that a fair offer for this issue would be £301.88  plus further compensation 
for the following 32 months (being the balance of the self-funding time of eight years and five 
months). In calculating how much that is, I think it would be fair for Tesco Bank to take into 
account that energy prices and inflation have both increased recently. It should show its 
working.
1 This was made up as follows: £647.56 from the panels themselves, £102.20 from the LED bulbs, 
and £69.87 from heating control and other items.I am not persuaded that the installer told Miss H that it would register the panels for FIT 
payments for her. On the balance of probabilities I think it is more likely than not that the 
salesman would have mentioned that she had to do it, and that Miss H forgot. My reasons 
for deciding that are, firstly, that it would certainly have been a routine part of every sales 
pitch, and I see no reason to suppose that the salesman failed to mention it to Miss H (let 
alone told her the opposite), and secondly, I accept Tesco Banks point that the registration 
form would have been sent to Miss H for her to complete. (In coming to that conclusion, 
I have disregarded the installers website, as I have no reason to suppose that Miss H 
looked at it, nor do I know what it said in 2015.)
Responses to my provisional findings
Tesco Bank did not respond to my provisional decision. The CMC raised a new point about 
whether the panels had generated as much electricity as was estimated at the point of sale. 
I can see from a meter reading already provided by the CMC that the panels generated 96% 
of what was estimated, which I consider to be within a reasonable margin of the estimate. So 
there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Tesco Personal Finance plc to put 
things right in the way I have set out above; that is to:
Pay Miss H £301.88, and
Calculate the total shortfall over months 70 to 101 (inclusive) from the sale (and show 
its working), and pay that amount to Miss H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman