The complaint
Mrs S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim on 
her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S has a mobile phone insurance policy underwritten by Assurant. In April 2019, she 
made a claim as her bag containing two mobile phones and a pair of headphones was stolen 
whilst she was abroad with her husband. 
Assurant requested proof of usage and ownership of the items, which Mrs S provided along 
with proof of travel and confirmation from her service provider that the phones had been 
blocked. 
Following this, Assurant asked for screenshots showing that the phones were still linked to 
their iCloud accounts. But Mrs S wasnt able to provide this as she found that both phones 
had been removed. Assurant said that removing the devices from an iCloud account can 
only be done by the account owner. So it declined the claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Assurant hadnt provided enough information 
to show the phones werent lost. He asked it to cover the claim, and as Mrs S had already 
paid for replacement phones and headphones, he asked Assurant to make a cash 
settlement. 
Whilst Mrs S accepted our investigators recommendations, Assurant disagreed. It said the 
only way to remove a device from an iCloud account is by using the Apple ID and password, 
which would only be known to Mrs S or her husband. So it wasnt satisfied the claim for theft 
was valid. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has a mobile phone insurance policy that covers up to four devices and accessories if 
they are lost or stolen. When considering a claim, its reasonable for Assurant to ask for 
some evidence to satisfy itself that the claim is valid. This is quite usual with insurance 
claims of any kind. And this requirement is also reflected in the policy terms. 
DRN-1144756The policy terms also say this policy covers devices owned by the account holder or one of 
their family members who lives at the same address. The definition of family member 
includes the spouse/partner of the account holder. So Mrs S could claim for both her own 
phone and her husbands.
Step three in the How to make a claim section of the claims process explains that someone 
making a claim for loss or theft of their phone may need to activate any location finder app 
or software  if the device has this functionality. It also states that the insurers may ask for 
additional information to assess any claims.
When making her claim, Mrs S confirmed that the phones were linked to the iCloud account. 
But after Assurant requested a screenshot to show this, Mrs S checked again and theyd 
been removed. Assurant has provided screen shots of its internal system to show that the 
Find my iPhone application is active on her phone. This means it is linked to an iCloud 
account. 
Mrs S says she hasnt removed the phones but Assurant says if the phones are not linked to 
Mr S account or her husbands, then they must be linked to someone elses account and, on 
that basis, Mrs S hasnt shown they still owned the phones at the point when they were 
stolen.
Assurant also says that while, hypothetically, someone may have found the mobile phones 
and started using them with their iCloud accounts, this would have required both devices to 
be re-set and for this to be completed, the person would have been required to input the 
relevant security details.
The key point here seems to be that, after the claim was made, the phones were removed 
from the iCloud accounts. Assurant says its unlikely a thief could have done that, so it must 
have been Mrs S or her husband, meaning they must have relinquished control of the 
phones. But it seems to me Assurant made its decision simply on the basis of that one 
factor. Although its clearly relevant, Id expect an insurer to look at all the circumstances and 
weigh up the weight to be given to each point. 
Mrs S had provided evidence of ownership and had done all the other things required of her 
 such as reporting the incident to the police, notifying the network provider and advising that 
the phone had been blocked and added to the IMEI blacklist database. 
Having shown, on the face of it, a valid claim, if Assurant wishes to reject the claim, the onus 
is on Assurant to justify that decision. The reasoning behind its decision seems to be that 
Mrs S hadnt proved ownership of the phones at the time they were stolen. I dont think the 
issue with the iCloud accounts on its own necessarily means she hadnt proved ownership of 
the phones. And I note that Asurion hasnt asked to see the police report even though Mrs S 
said she had this  and had had it translated into English. As our investigator mentioned, 
crime reference numbers or police reports are specifically mentioned in the policy terms as 
acceptable evidence that a loss or theft has taken place.
Looking at all the circumstances Im not satisfied Asurion had enough information to reach 
the conclusion that Mrs S hadnt provided proof of ownership. In reaching this conclusion Ive 
taken into account that Assurant had the opportunity to make further enquiries and obtain 
additional information but did not do so. 
For these reasons I agree that the complaint should be upheld and, as the items have been 
replaced, Asurion should make a cash settlement to Mrs S to reimburse her for the cost 
she incurred for this.Putting things right
To put things right Asurion needs to make a payment to Mrs S for the cost of the 
replacement items.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Asurion General Insurance Limited to make a payment to 
Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman