DRN-2928090
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc is responsible for an international payment not going 
through. She says Santander is responsible for the loss she incurred when the payment was 
returned to her bank account, and for fees charged when the item shed paid for was held at 
port. 
 
What happened
In December 2019, Ms W made an international transfer from her Santander bank account 
for the purchase of an item that was to be shipped from overseas. Ms W had previously paid 
a 30% deposit prior to shipping. This transaction was for the remaining 70%. Ms W says the 
overseas company needed to confirm receipt of the payment before the item could be 
released from the port. 
Ms W experienced some inconvenience when the payment was blocked by Santander. But 
this was resolved within a couple of days and Santander paid Ms W £30 to apologise for 
giving her incorrect information about timescales.
Following this, the intermediary bank asked Santander for answers to some questions for 
compliance reasons. Santander initially asked the beneficiary bank for the information, but 
this wasnt provided. So, Santander attempted to call Ms W but didnt get through to speak to 
her.
Ms W phoned Santander for an update on the transfer and was told the payment was in 
progress and going through additional checks. Six days later, Ms W phoned Santander to 
chase up the payment again and was told further information was required. Ms W gave 
Santander the information that was needed. She also raised a complaint with Santander who 
said the advisor shed spoken to the previous week should have asked her for the 
information that was needed then. Santander paid Ms W £100 to compensate her for the 
poor service shed received.
Ms W experienced some further issues with Santander when she tried to get the BIC/Swift 
code for the intermediary bank so the company she was making the payment to could chase 
it up. In the meantime, the item shed paid for arrived at the port and the payment still hadnt 
gone through.
A few days later the payment was returned to Ms Ws Santander account. Ms W says she 
lost around £444 because of a change in exchange rates and international payment fees. 
Having received the money back into her account, Ms W made the payment via a different 
method and this went through successfully. But the item was held at the port because of the 
delay in the payment being received by the company selling the item. This resulted in a 900 
euro demurrage fee being charged by the shipping company. 
Santander paid Ms W a further £80 for the inconvenience shed experienced. But it said it 
wasnt responsible for the payment being returned to her. Ms W remained unhappy, so she 
brought her complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2021, where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Ms Ws complaint. In that decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms W. But based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend 
to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Exchange rate loss
Ms W says that she lost around £444 when the money was returned to her account after the 
payment failed because of the difference in exchange rates and international payment fees. 
She thinks Santander should compensate her for this. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ws account say Santander isnt liable for an account 
holders loss as a result of any delay or failure in an International Payment reaching the bank 
of the beneficiary of the payment in circumstances which include: any statutory or other 
legally required checks being carried out in relation to the International Payment and any 
event or circumstance beyond (Santanders) reasonable control.
Ms W believes that the payment didnt go through because Santander didnt respond to the 
intermediary banks request for further information in a timely manner. Santander says this 
isnt the reason the payment failed. 
Santander has provided evidence to show that the intermediary bank returned the payment 
for the reason of internal policy. At our investigators request, Santander asked the 
intermediary for further clarification regarding the reason for the return. The intermediary 
responded with: Please be advised that the subject payment order was rejected on the 
basis of internal (name of intermediary) bank policy. Santander says this isnt something it 
can question because this would be to do with the intermediary banks procedures and 
policies relating to sanction and compliance. 
Its not disputed that Santander delayed the payment being processed by the intermediary 
bank. Santander has acknowledged that it should have asked Ms W for the information the 
intermediary requested when she phoned on 7 January 2020. I can also see that on             
8 January 2020 Santander told the intermediary: Please be advised we have attempted to 
contact both the remitter and the beneficiary and have received no response from either 
party. If you are in a position to  please return the funds.
While it might seem that the intermediary had acted on this message, the payment wasnt 
returned until 17 January. From what Ive seen, this was the day after Santander sent the 
intermediary the information it had requested.
 
If the intermediary banks reason for returning the payment was simply because of 
Santanders delay, I think it would likely have given this as the reason. On balance, I think 
the payment was more likely to have been returned due to some other reason  one that the 
intermediary was unable or unwilling to disclose. 
Given that I dont think Santander is likely to be responsible for the payment being returned, 
it follows that it also isnt responsible for the money Ms W lost out on as a result. So, I dont 
intend to tell Santander to pay Ms W the £444 shes asked for. 
Demurrage feesMs W has provided evidence to show that the shipping company charged demurrage fees of 
900 euros. She says this charge was incurred because the shipping company wouldnt 
release the item until payment was received by the sender. 
I think its likely that the intermediary bank would have returned the payment to Ms Ws bank 
account sooner if Santander hadnt delayed sending the information across. This would have 
allowed Ms W to send the payment by a different method earlier than she did. 
While the delay caused by Santander might have resulted in additional charges from the 
shipping company, the invoice Ms W has sent to show these isnt in her name. Ms W has 
explained that she was purchasing the item on behalf of a relative and it was him that paid 
the fee to the shipping company.
Under the rules our service must follow, Ms W (as the account holder) is the only person 
eligible to bring a complaint about this matter to us. I can only consider her own financial loss 
as part of this complaint, not anyone elses loss by association. This means that I cant 
consider any loss her relative may have incurred as a result of what happened.
Customer service
I appreciate this has been a frustrating situation for Ms W and shes been caused some 
unnecessary inconvenience. But Santander has acknowledged that its customer service 
could have been better. And I think the £210 it has already paid Ms W is enough to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced. So, I dont intend to tell 
Santander to do anything further.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any information or comments before I 
made my final decision. 
Responses
Santander said it had nothing further to add. Ms W didnt provide any further comments or 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman