DRN-2966681
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account without informing him and have 
provided him with poor customer service, especially when trying to open a new account.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Santander. He was in arrears on his account so he visited a 
branch to deposit money into the account, but he was told his account had been closed and 
he could not pay money into the account.
Mr M says that he wasnt informed his account was closed previously and that he believes 
Santander closed his account as he had previously made a complaint to them which he later 
brought to our service. 
Mr M complained to Santander about the service he had when trying to pay money into his 
account and asked for the account to be re-opened. Santander upheld his complaint. They 
said although his account was closed there is a process in place to allow Mr M to pay money 
into the account which the branch hadnt followed. Santander confirmed that the reason his 
account was closed was not because he made a complaint against them but due to their 
collections and recoveries policy and the position of the account and the arrears. Santander 
said that as a result of the poor customer service they would waive the arrears on the 
account (£252.82) and reduce his balance to zero. They confirmed the information that they 
had reported to the credit reference agencies had been correct, so they would not look to 
amend this. They did not reopen his account.
Mr M made an appointment with the branch to open a new bank account with Santander. 
The application was declined. Mr M says he had to wait six weeks for the appointment only 
to be humiliated by Santander when they declined his application. He says this was a waste 
of his resources and time. Mr M made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said Santander had already defaulted
and closed his account before he had tried to pay money into the account. Our investigator 
said Santander wrote to Mr M a number of times about this and they sent him a default 
notice on 14 November 2018. She said that the underwriters had declined his decision to 
open a new account for him and that she would not be able to ask Santander to open a new 
account for him. Our investigator thought the compensation Santander had paid, to reduce 
his arrears to zero was fair and more than our service would typically award in his 
circumstances.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points which 
included that Santander deceived him, gave him poor customer service, either did not reply 
to his communication or gave him poor replies and the underwriters who declined his 
application were Santander staff using Santander equipment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr M has said regarding Santander closing his account without 
informing him. But Im satisfied that Santander had been clear about the actions they were 
going to take on the letters which were addressed to Mr M at his registered address. Their 
letter dated 14 November 2018 said please note that once the default is registered with the 
credit reference agencies well close your account and any payment we receive afterwards 
will be used to repay the outstanding amount. So as Santander didnt receive the 
outstanding balance or come to an agreement for a repayment plan then the account was 
defaulted and closed. So Im satisfied that the account was closed by Santander as a result 
of the arrears on his account and not because of any complaint that he had made.
Next Ive considered the service which Mr M had in the branch when he tried to make a 
payment into the account. As both parties agree that Mr M received poor customer service, 
all thats left for me to decide on this point is whether the compensation Santander paid in 
reducing his outstanding arrears to zero was fair. Im persuaded that it was and Ill explain 
why.
Im persuaded that Mr M will have been inconvenienced by visiting the branch with the 
intention of trying to reduce his arrears, only to be told he cant. So what I would expect 
Santander to do here is to apologise for the staff member not following their process to credit 
the account and to recognise the impact this would have had on Mr M. Santander did 
apologise and by clearing the balance of his arrears Im satisfied that this did reflect the 
impact the error had on Mr M. As the arrears were over £250, this would have been more 
than this service would have typically awarded for the poor service Mr M had from Santander 
if they didnt uphold his complaint, so I do think the payment was fair.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about Santander deceiving him. And Ive noted the 
strength of feeling he has regarding this. But Im persuaded that Santander have not 
deceived him. I say this as Mr M asked to open an account with them. So he would need to 
complete an application to do so. Santander facilitated this for him by booking an 
appointment for him and took the time to process the application for him. Although it was six 
weeks before he could get an appointment, there were other methods such as online or 
telephone if he did not want to apply in branch or wait for an appointment. 
Ive also considered whether Santander branch staff would have known the outcome of his 
application and had deceived him to apply for the account. But Ive seen no evidence of this. 
Santander have said that they would never confirm the likelihood of any application, as this 
would not be known and they would continue with an application in the normal manner. They 
have also said that they would not refuse to make an application on a customers behalf. 
And that is what Santander did here. They acted on Mr Ms instructions to apply for a new 
account and although the application was declined, Im satisfied that the branch would not 
have known the outcome at the outset of the application.
Mr M has commented that it was Santanders underwriters using Santander equipment who 
declined his application. And it was Santanders underwriters who rejected his appeal. This 
is correct. Santander has their own underwriters which would use Santander equipment. But 
as the decision to approve an account or not is a commercial decision for Santander, it is not 
within the scope of this service to ask Santander to open an account for Mr M, or to give the 
reason why they arent able to open an account for Mr M.I know Mr M wants a written outcome of the appeal from Santanders underwriters, but they 
are not required to give their reasons for declining an application or an appeal as this may 
contain business sensitive information. 
Mr M has said that Santander has given him poor responses or no response at all. I can see 
that he had wrote to Santander and a member of staff has replied who he didnt expect to 
reply. Mr M responded to this letter, but it doesnt appear he got a further reply.
The letter the staff member sent Mr M confirmed that the underwriters had declined his 
appeal. So he does have written confirmation of this. The letter states that he would have 
been given a decline letter. I know Mr M disputes this point. Im unable to say whether this 
was provided as I wasnt present at the meeting. But Im not persuaded that the letter would 
have made a difference to the outcome of the application. I say this as the decline letter 
would be unlikely to go into detail of why the application was declined. And the branch staff 
had appealed the decision on Mr Ms behalf. Im persuaded that this shows that the branch 
were trying to assist Mr M and not deceive him. Ultimately, Santander underwriters made a 
commercial decision not to accept Mr Ms application, which as a business they are entitled 
to do.
The staff member also confirmed that she attempted to ring Mr M several times and left him 
voicemails. And although Mr M says he never received any calls, the staff member gave Mr 
M a direct branch telephone number and invited him into the branch to talk to her if he had 
any further queries, so Im satisfied that Santander were trying to help Mr M here even if they 
hadnt replied to his last letter. I cant confirm that they received this letter even though Mr M 
has provided proof of postage. On the balance of probability, its likely they hadnt received 
the letter as the staff member had responded to his previous letter and had included her 
contact details if Mr M had any further queries. But even if they had received the letter, Im 
not persuaded a reply would have gave Mr M the information he wanted.
In summary Im persuaded that Santander were entitled to close Mr Ms account. They were 
also entitled to decline his application for a new account and reject his appeal for commercial 
reasons. Im satisfied that the impact of the poor customer service he received was 
recognised by Santander and the £252.82 they paid to reduce his arrears to zero reflected 
this impact. So it follows I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman