DRN-4183877
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly declined his 
mortgage application. Following a valuation Virgin Money required an ESW1 (External Wall 
System) form which it said should be uploaded to the Fire Industry Building Safety Portal. 
Mr S says that this was unfair, and he has had to remortgage elsewhere at a higher rate of 
interest. Mr S says that he had to accept a 5-year fixed rate interest rate of 2.97% as 
opposed to Virgin Moneys rate of 2.34%. Mr S calculates he will suffer a loss of £6,500.00.
What happened
Mr S owns a flat in a block of eight purpose-built flats over four floors. Mr S applied for a 
mortgage of £450,000 based on a value of £615,000 with Virgin Money through a broker in 
2022. A valuer inspected the property in June 2022 and provided a report to Virgin Money. 
The report records that It is necessary to provide a completed ESW1 form to the 
lenderThe form must be prepared by a suitably qualified independent professional 
adviser.. 
Mr S says an ESW1 form has been produced for the building prepared by a qualified fire 
engineer and dated 20 April 2022. Mr S says that the form confirmed the fire engineers 
conclusion that, as regards the external wall system, the fire risk is sufficiently low, and no 
remedial works are required. This is a B1 classification. A copy of the form was provided to 
Virgin Money on 28 June 2022 but wasnt uploaded to the Fire Industry Building Safety 
Portal. Virgin Money didnt progress the application without this requirement being met. As a 
result, Mr S has had to return to his existing lender to switch rates.  So, an ESW1 form was 
available but Virgin Money required that it should be uploaded to the Building Safety Portal 
by the management company of the block. Mr S says that its policy on insisting that this form 
is uploaded to the portal is unfair. 
Virgin Money says that its entitled to act on the advice of a suitably qualified surveyor and 
entitled to insist that the form is uploaded to the portal. Our investigator recommended that 
this complaint should be upheld because of the length of time that Virgin Money took to 
respond to the complaint. She suggested compensation of £100. Virgin Money accepted this 
view. Mr S disagreed saying in summary:
Virgin Money has received a copy of the EWS1 Form.
The need for an EWS1 Form is not now in keeping with Government guidance.
The Valuer has not required the EWS1 Form to be uploaded to the Portal and, in any 
event, such a requirement would not be reasonable.
The Portal offers no tangible guarantee as to the authenticity of an EWS1 form.  
Instead, responsibility remains with the Assessor.
The EWS1 Form invites lenders to contact the signatory's organisation (here the 
Institution of Fire Engineers) should they wish to rely on the EWS1 Form. Virgin has 
not done so and are insisting that the EWS1 form is uploaded to the Portal
Virgin has confirmed that it has no intention of changing its unreasonable approach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration with the government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. This led to concerns about 
combustible cladding and other fire safety issues that might allow a fire to spread quickly 
through affected buildings. The EWS1 process allows a qualified fire safety inspector to 
assess a buildings external wall system. That assessment will allocate a rating. Obtaining 
the EWS1 form is the responsibility of the building owner/management company and not 
individual leaseholders as the form covers the whole building. General guidance to 
surveyors and valuers from their professional bodies was that an EWS1 was required where 
there are potential cladding or other issues, and the building is six storeys or higher but that 
the EWS1 may be required for smaller buildings too if there are grounds for considering 
there is a risk that needs to be assessed.
The surveyor said specifically in the valuation report that the external wall system of the 
property required review and that It is necessary to provide a completed EWS1 form to 
confirm the status of the external wall system and any applicable attachments Its 
reasonable for Virgin Money to rely on the opinion of a qualified surveyor. The bank is not an 
expert in assessing and valuing buildings in order to decide if the property was good 
security. The valuer required a further check if there were any combustible materials that 
could affect the property
There seems to be two issues here. Firstly, as to whether its reasonable for Virgin Money to 
require the EWS1 form at all and secondly whether its reasonable to require the form to be 
uploaded to the Portal. As regards the first issue, the EWS1 form was required by the valuer. 
The valuer offered a nil valuation without the form and so the form was a necessary 
requirement for the application to proceed. Mr S tells me that there is such a form so I cant 
see that this requirement as an unreasonable impediment to the progress of the application.
The other issue is the uploading of the form to the portal. The bank has a lending policy on 
this, available to brokers processing applications, which is that if a valuer requires an EWS1 
form,  we will only accept EWS1 forms which are completed and held on the (Building 
Safety) portal. They should not be sent to us. Therefore, please ensure that the organisation 
appointed to complete the EWS1 form is willing to upload it to the Building Safety Portal or 
your client may face disappointment
Mr S says that this policy is unfair and sets his reasoning out at length particularly in his 
email to us of 19 May 2023. In summary its policy is unfair because a valid EWS1 form can 
be produced by fire engineers not authorised by the FIA who curate the portal and whether 
an EWS1 form is on the portal is purely a matter of chance and not within a customers or 
indeed the landlords control. 
Why should Virgin Money require that it be uploaded to this portal? Mr S refers to four 
grounds that Virgin Money have suggested. But it seems to me that the crux of the matter is 
what Mr S refers to as ground 4 Uploading the EWS1 form to the Portal ensures its 
authenticity, approved certification and protects Mr S/Virgin from fraudulent forms being 
completed . Mr S suggests it does no such thing. In his letter of complaint, he says that The 
portal offers no guarantee or indemnity as to the veracity of the forms uploaded to it.But the guidance for the portal says that manual checks are undertaken at various stages of 
the process starting from the fire engineer needing to present evidence that they are fully 
qualified and competent to undertake the inspection up to checking the validity of each form 
to try to eliminate the problem of fraudulent EWS1 forms being in circulation. Indeed, Mr Ss 
landlord recognises what Virgin is trying to achieve by using the portal.. In its email of 14 
July 2022, the landlord says, The view from here is that they (Virgin) may be trying to avoid 
taking a fraudulently signed form (which sadly has been done by some unscrupulous 
landlords).  
As a lender Virgin Money decides what level of risk it wishes to take in different areas, and it 
decided it was unwilling to accept EWS1 forms as valid unless they were independently 
verified as valid through the portal. Given that was its stated policy and that policy was 
available for the broker to inspect, I dont consider that it was unreasonable requirement for 
a customer such as Mr S to comply with this policy and, if not complied with, I consider that it 
was a reasonable ground for Virgin Money not proceeding with this application. So, I cant 
fairly uphold that part of the complaint. But I agree with our investigator that the delay in 
replying to this complaint was unacceptable and award Mr S £100 a compensation for Mr Ss 
frustration with the delay as a result of this poor service.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as virgin Money should pay Mr S £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to 
pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman