DRN-1718647
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy about Barclays Bank PLCs overdraft charges. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have a current account with Barclays. Mr E says Barclays has failed to 
properly explain its overdraft charges and has overcharged him for a number of years. Mr E 
says Barclays uses a pending balance to calculate overdraft charges, before the money 
has left the account.  
Mr E complained to Barclays and it sent him a final response to say that he hadnt been 
charged incorrectly. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr E referred his complaint to this service. During our 
investigation, Barclays offered to pay him £200 compensation for not being able to provide 
an explanation of its charges to him within a reasonable time. But it said that it was charging 
correctly and in line with its terms and conditions. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Barclays was charging in line with 
its terms and conditions. She thought Barclays offer of £200 compensation for the delays in 
responding to Mr E and for the frustration caused to him was fair.  
Mr E disagreed and in summary, has made the following points:
Barclays were charging him a daily overdraft fee on money which had been ring-
fenced and hadnt left his account yet
Barclays balance wasnt clear and any payments made on weekends were included 
in the calculation of daily charges
Barclays terms and conditions refer to balance but not statement balance  he 
doesnt receive information to show which days are charged at which rate 
Barclays told him it was going to change the way it charges again and revert to 
charging interest
Mr E has produced a spreadsheet covering his overdraft charges for 5 years and this 
shows that he has been overcharged by £12.75 based on the statement balance  
and so Barclays should refund all his overdraft charges 
 
As a goodwill gesture, Barclays offered to consider a 0% interest loan with Mr E to clear and 
remove the overdraft facility. It had also offered to refund overdraft charges from April 2019 
on the basis that the loan would be agreed but an agreement couldnt be reached on the 
term of the loan. 
And so, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Barclays offer of 
£200 compensation is fair and so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say Barclays must provide or make information 
available to a customer in a clear way and in good time.
Barclays terms and conditions say it will charge overdraft fees using the balance at the end 
of each day.
Barclays has explained how it calculates its overdraft charges:
pending transactions are not included 
charges are applied when the money leaves the account 
payments made on weekends and bank holidays arent shown on statements as they 
are non-working days but are shown on the next available working day 
some payments do leave the account on non-working days and so the daily balance 
can change 
charges are based on the end of day balance and this is automated. The balance is 
produced at 7pm on weekdays and at 8pm on weekends
 
Mr E has produced a spreadsheet using the balance from his statements going back to 2014 
and has demonstrated that he has been over charged by £12.75. But Barclays has 
explained that the statement balance doesnt update until the following working day although 
the live data updates the balance on a non-working day when the money leaves the account. 
And this would explain the discrepancy of £12.75.
Barclays has confirmed that the live data is available to Mr E via telephone, but he can also 
check his available balance at an ATM, or by using online banking. And so Im satisfied that 
Mr E would be able to correctly calculate any overdraft charges based on the live data.
Barclays has also confirmed the way the balance is displayed in its statements is industry-
wide  that any payments leaving the account on a non-working day, will show as leaving 
the account on the next working day. 
Mr E has also raised questions about ring-fenced funds and pending charges. He has given 
an example of a hotel taking a holding fee and that Barclays charge overdraft interest on 
the balance although the money hasnt ever left the account. But based on Barclays 
explanations, the charges would only apply if the money leaves the account. 
I agree that Mr E would have been frustrated when he called Barclays and it wasnt able to 
properly explain his charges to him. And then it delayed in providing information - so I think 
the £200 offered by Barclays is fair. 
Barclays has shown that its charges have been calculated correctly and so none of its 
charges need to be refunded. I note Barclays offered to refund overdraft charges from last 
April 2019 and offered to discuss a resolve loan to clear the overdraft - but the loan didnt go 
ahead as an agreement couldnt be reached on the terms of the loan. Its up to Barclays 
whether it still wishes to refund the April 2019 charges to Mr E.
Mr E has also raised issues about the changes Barclays has made to the way it charges for 
the use of its overdraft facility  it has said it will charge interest instead of a daily fee. But 
this isnt something which has been investigated in this complaint and so I wont comment on it any further. Mr E will have to complain to Barclays about any new concerns before 
referring them to this service.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I think Barclays has delayed in providing Mr E an explanation 
of its charges. But I think its offer of £200 compensation is fair to resolve this.
My final decision
To put matter rights, Barclays Bank PLC should pay Mr E £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman