DRN-2365135
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank plc wont refund to him the money that he paid to an 
airline for an additional baggage allowance.
.
What happened
Mr C used his Sainsburys Bank credit card in January 2019 to pay £860.58 for some flights 
that were to be taken in July 2019. The booking confirmation showed that hed paid for 
Checked Bag (20kg), Priority & 2 Cabin Bags Plus. When he printed the boarding passes 
they were accompanied by information which said You have selected Priority & 2 Cabin 
Bags and You can change your booking and add a 20kg bag. Mr C used his Sainsburys 
Bank credit card in July 2019 to pay £100 for an additional baggage allowance but says that 
he then realised that the original booking included 20kg of hold luggage for each passenger. 
He contacted the airline for a refund of the £100 and then made a complaint through its 
website. His complaint wasnt upheld so he claimed a refund from Sainsburys Bank under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sainsburys Bank said that the airline was transparent with the information, the details of the 
baggage allowance were on the boarding passes and Mr C had ample opportunity to call the 
airline and clarify his baggage allowance. It said that it was unable to identify a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. It credited £40 to Mr Cs account because of the length of 
time that it had taken to respond to his complaint. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service but our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She concluded that Sainsburys Bank 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining Mr Cs claim.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
information provided by the airline wasnt clear or fair and was misleading as he didnt need 
to change his booking to add a 20kg baggage allowance and the airline didnt make it clear 
that the 20kg baggage allowance had already been selected. He says that the airlines 
preferred business model is to conduct business over its website and that he acted on its 
misleading information in good faith.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Cs complaint about Sainsburys Bank, I must be satisfied 
that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the airline and that 
Sainsburys Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable 
 but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Cs claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that;
Mr C clearly paid for flights that included Checked Bag (20kg), Priority & 2 Cabin 
Bags Plus;
hes provided screenshots of the information that was provided to him when he 
printed the boarding passes and I agree with him that the information wasnt as clear 
as I would expect it to be  the only reference to the 20kg checked bag was at the 
bottom of the boarding pass in small print and it said you can change your booking 
and add a 20kg bag  so I can understand why Mr C might be concerned about the 
baggage allowance that hed already paid for;
he then paid £100 to the airline for an additional baggage allowance  but he didnt 
need or want an additional baggage allowance as hed already paid for a checked 
20kg bag so he contacted the airline but it didnt agree to refund the payment to him;
I sympathise with Mr C for the frustration that he feels about the airlines refusal to 
refund the £100 to him but Sainsburys Bank would only be liable to him under 
section 75 if there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the airline;
I dont consider that the airline has breached its contract with Mr C or that it 
misrepresented the baggage allowance to him  the information may have been less 
clear that I would expect it to be but Im not persuaded that thats enough to be a 
misrepresentation;
I agree with our investigator that it would have been reasonable to expect Mr C to 
have contacted the airline about his concerns about his baggage allowance before 
paying for an additional baggage allowance;
we offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  but Im unable to require the airline to change the 
way that it conducts its business;
Sainsburys Bank accepts that it took too long to deal with Mr Cs complaint so it has 
credited his account with £40  I consider that to be fair and reasonable 
compensation for the delay  and other than that I consider that its response to his 
claim has been fair and reasonable; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Sainsburys Bank to refund to Mr C the £100 that he paid for the additional baggage 
allowance, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman