DRN-4406424
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to apply a
retrospective exclusion to a claim under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M was covered under her husbands group private medical insurance policy through his
employer. That policy was with AXA.
Mrs Ms husband then left his employer and arranged for him and Mrs M to have individual
cover with AXA (under the same policy). The policy started in September 2022 and cost
£259.75 per month.
A few months later, Mrs M made a claim for a follow-up consultation. AXA assessed the
claim and concluded that Mrs M had failed to disclose information when taking out the policy.
It said if it had known the information, it would have applied an exclusion for Mrs Ms
condition. As the claim was for this condition, AXA applied the exclusion retrospectively and
turned down the claim. Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought a complaint to this Service. I
understand she also paid for further private treatment, but didnt claim for this due to the
exclusion that had been added.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been
reasonable for AXA to conclude that Mrs M had misrepresented information, and turn down
the claim because of the retrospective exclusion.
AXA later made an offer to cover Mrs Ms condition in full for a higher premium, so long as
she paid the backdated premium from the start. However, Mrs M didnt wish to do this, and
so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 October 2023. Heres what I said:
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
When taking out the new policy, Mrs Ms husband was asked some medical questions by
AXA, which he answered on Mrs Ms behalf. The question that AXA says was answered
incorrectly was:
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests, planned or
pending?
Im satisfied this was a clear question. Mrs Ms husband answered no on her behalf.
Mrs M saw her consultant in March 2021. At that time, the consultant planned to review
Mrs M in six months time.
When Mrs M took out the policy, she was still waiting for the follow-up consultation. Mrs Ms
husband says he had no recollection of a follow-up being needed, so thats why he didnt
disclose this.
I dont know the reason why the follow-up was delayed, though medical appointments were
often delayed due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic around this time. However, Mrs M
hadnt been told that she would no longer need the follow-up, and the claim was made for
the follow-up.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs M (or her husband on her behalf) had forgotten a follow-up would be
needed, the information provided by the consultant was that a follow-up would take place. I 
therefore find that Mrs M (or her husband on her behalf) failed to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation.
Mrs Ms husband says that AXA was aware of the previous appointments and had a copy of
all relevant correspondence (presumably including the letter which mentioned the
consultants planned follow-up), as these had been claimed under the previous policy.
However, as our investigator has explained, we wouldnt expect an insurer to cross
reference information from previous claims to ensure that medical questions have been
answered correctly. Its reasonable to expect an insurer to rely on what it is told when it asks
an applicant a question.
Mrs Ms husband also says that AXA was allowing a transfer from a group policy to an
individual policy. He says the point of this was to ensure that all existing conditions would
continue to be covered under the individual policy, which is a feature of AXAs product.
It may be helpful if I explain that when an insurer allows someone to move from a group
scheme to an individual policy, there is the potential for cover to be provided for pre-existing
conditions. However, this is subject to the applicant answering medical questions so that the
insurer can assess the risk presented to it, before allowing the transfer. Depending on the
answers to those questions, an insurer could take action that reflects the risk presented,
such as increasing the premium, applying an exclusion, or even refusing to offer cover.
Here, AXA says it would have charged a higher premium.
Although Ive found there was misrepresentation, I think its clear that Mrs Ms husband (on
her behalf) didnt deliberately intend to mislead AXA. I agree with AXA that the
misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate.
Although AXA initially said (incorrectly) that it would have excluded Mrs Ms condition if it had
known about the planned follow-up, it has since confirmed it would have actually charged a
higher monthly premium for her and her husband (£502.55 instead of the £259.75 which was
paid). It has now offered to cover Mrs Ms condition for the higher premium. However, it says
this would be charged from the outset and therefore Mrs M would need to pay the backdated
amount due.
I asked AXA for information on how Mrs Ms new premium was calculated, and it has
provided a breakdown which shows her premium would have been £385.38. Im afraid I cant
share this with Mrs M or her husband as this information is commercially sensitive. But Im
satisfied AXA has shown that it would have charged Mrs M this higher premium, and 
therefore the misrepresentation is qualifying for the purposes of CIDRA.
AXA has confirmed that Mrs Ms husbands part of the premium remained unchanged.
Based on the total premium being £502.55, I would therefore assume that this was £117.17.
But I would be grateful if AXA could confirm this in response to this provisional decision, so Ican be certain that £502.55 would have been the correct total premium. By my calculations,
this would mean that Mrs M had paid 37% of her correct premium.
As Ive said, AXA has offered to cover Mrs Ms condition in full if she pays the backdated
premiums. Although this isnt in line with CIDRA, where an insured is happy to do this, I
wont usually interfere in this. However, Mrs M doesnt want to do so. So I think AXA ought to
have used the remedy available under CIDRA.
CIDRA says an insurers remedy is based on what it would have done had the consumer
taken reasonable care and not made a careless misrepresentation. Therefore, because AXA
wouldve still entered into the contract but wouldve charged a higher premium, that means
AXA should have reduced proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.
I therefore intend to find that AXA should reimburse Mrs M for the private treatment she has
paid for on a proportionate basis (in other words, based on the proportion of premium Mrs M
has paid, compared to what she should have paid), plus interest.
I also think Mrs M has been caused inconvenience and unnecessary confusion by AXAs
handling of the matter. I intend to require it to pay her £300 compensation for this.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. However, neither party responded by the deadline with any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though as neither party has provided me with any further comments to consider, Im 
satisfied this complaint should be partly upheld, and for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I asked AXA to confirm to me that Mrs Ms husbands part of the 
premium was £117.17, so I could be sure that £502.55 was the correct premium that ought 
to have been charged. Based on this, I calculated that Mrs M had paid 37% of her correct 
premium. Unfortunately, AXA didnt provide this confirmation to me, and so I require it to 
confirm this to Mrs M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
to do the following:
Confirm to Mrs M how much of the premium is payable for her husband, and the 
percentage of premium she has paid, compared to what she should have paid.
Reimburse Mrs M for the private treatment she has paid for since taking out the 
policy (subject to the policy terms) on a proportionate basis. Interest* should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum a month after the invoice/s were paid to 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs M £300 compensation.
* If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M acertificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman