DRN-3963178
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly paid a 
refund into the balance he owes, instead of paying it to him directly.
What happened
Mr R complained to Barclays after it wrote to him advising that it had decided to issue a 
refund of £117.04 on his credit card account. Mr R is unhappy that the bank decided to pay 
the refund into the balance he owes instead of paying it to him directly. 
In its response, Barclays explained that it had discovered it had applied incorrect charges on 
Mr Rs account and decided to issue a refund. Barclays says that an outstanding balance 
remains on Mr Rs account, so the banks process is to apply the funds from the refund back 
into the account so that the balance can be reduced.
After Mr R asked this service to get involved, our investigator decided that Barclays had 
acted fairly. Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr R also made a complaint about the transfer of the outstanding balance to a third-party 
collection agency. This has been addressed separately in another decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Barclays has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
Barclays seems to have identified it had got things wrong in the way it had applied charges 
on Mr Rs credit card account. In such an instance, Id expect the bank to take steps to put 
Mr R back in the position he wouldve been in, had the wrongdoing not occurred. 
In my opinion, Barclays acted fairly by calculating the amount it had overcharged Mr R and 
letting him know that it would refund this amount. Had there not been an outstanding 
balance, I wouldve expected Barclays to pay this directly to Mr R, so he could decide on 
how to use the funds. 
But Mr Rs account was in debt at the time, so I think it was reasonable for Barclays to pay 
the refund into this balance  resulting in a reduction of the overall balance Mr R owed and 
putting him back in the position he wouldve been in, had he not been wrongly charged.
I understand that Mr Rs debt was with a third-party collection agency at the time. 
Nevertheless, the balance was still an amount that was due, so I think it was reasonable for 
the bank to issue the refund in this way. Additionally, Mr R ultimately benefited from a 
reduction in the balance he owed.
So Ive decided that Barclays acted fairly by applying the refund to the balance Mr R owed. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman