DRN-3856058
The complaint
Mrs E complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs E took her dog to a vet as it had issues with skin irritation and anal 
glands. The vet thought the issues could include pruritis (a skin condition whose symptoms 
included itching, the cause of which commonly included allergies). The vet advised blood 
tests to help diagnose the issue, which could be underlying allergies, and inform any 
required treatment. Mrs E submitted a pre-authorisation request for the tests.
However, Red Sands declined the request, as review of the dogs clinical history indicated to 
them the condition leading to the request had first been noted in August 2020, before the 
policy start date of April 2021. They referred to an exclusion in the vet fees section of the 
policy which meant pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered. They also said the policy 
terms and conditions gave them the right to apply an exclusion in respect of the condition. 
So, they applied an exclusion (from the policy start date) to exclude cover on all claims in 
respect of allergies of any cause and skin conditions. 
Mrs E was unhappy about Red Sands decline of her request and obtained a view from the 
vet that said, in their professional opinion, the clinical signs Red Sands noted in August 2020 
(an irritated foot) were unrelated to the current issue and unlikely to be the result of an 
allergy (as only one foot was affected). The more likely cause was some form of trauma. So, 
allergies shouldnt be classified as a pre-existing condition.
Red Sands reviewed the claim, including the vets opinion, but confirmed their decision to 
decline the request as they considered the dogs history of skin, ear and digestive issues 
and symptoms before the policy start. They considered the symptoms were still present, as 
well as anal gland issues which they thought likely to be related to digestive problems. As 
such, they confirmed their decline of the claim as the first clinical signs of the current 
condition (thought to be underlying allergies) were noted before the policy started, so they 
deemed it to be a pre-existing condition.
Mrs E then complained to this service. She didnt accept her dog had a pre-existing 
condition. She also thought the information from Red Sands virtual vet was unfair. She 
wanted Red Sands to reconsider their decline of her request and confirm the condition 
claimed for wasnt pre-existing. 
As Mrs E hadnt made a formal complaint to Red Sands before complaining to this service, 
our investigator asked Red Sands to consider the issues raised by Mrs E as a complaint. 
Red Sands didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said review of the clinical 
history confirmed the clinical signs for the dogs allergy condition were first noted in April 
2020 (so prior to the policy start in April 2021). They also said the clinical history also 
indicated an ongoing history of intermittent diarrhoea, general pruritis and scooting (which 
were related to the dogs allergies). Red Sands concluded that any conditions that displayed 
clinical signs prior to the policy start were deemed pre-existing and so excluded from cover 
under the policy terms.
Our investigator then considered Mrs Es complaint and upheld it. The investigator concluded 
Red Sands hadnt acted fairly because she didnt think theyd done enough to show the 
issues in the clinical history before policy inception were signs or symptoms of an allergy. 
And the issues hadnt occurred again leading to the condition claimed for. So, she thought 
they were isolated incidents and the pruritis symptoms appeared after the policy start. The 
opinion of Mrs Es vet also indicated the clinical signs before policy start (August 2020) 
werent related to the condition claimed for. So, it wasnt reasonable for Red Sands to apply 
the pre-existing condition exclusion.
The investigator thought it reasonable for Red Sands to apply backdated exclusions as Mrs 
E had been asked (when the policy documentation was issued) whether her dog had ever 
been to a vet for something other than routine vaccinations. However, the investigator 
thought Red Sands hadnt proven that the issues recorded prior to policy inception related to 
allergies or pruritus. Nor, considering Red Sands underwriting criteria, had Red Sands 
applied the exclusions for allergies and skin conditions fairly, as the symptoms displayed 
before the policy started didnt relate to the exclusions.
To put things right, the investigator thought Red Sands should accept the pre-authorisation 
request, subject to the excess, limits and remaining terms of the policy. They should also pay 
interest on any treatment costs incurred by Mrs E (less any policy excess) from the date she 
paid for the treatment to the date Red Sands reimbursed her. Red Sands should also remove 
the exclusions for allergies and skin conditions from the policy.
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to the clinical history, saying the dog had 
a recurring ongoing history of digestive issues, skin, ear and anal gland issues with the onset 
of the conditions prior to the policy inception and ongoing. The dog had been seen by the vet 
regularly since April 2020 for allergy symptoms, and due to these recurrent issues the vet 
wished to carry out allergy testing. 
Red Sands also referred to the view of their consultant vet about the nature of allergies, 
including to environmental allergens and food allergy, including skin symptoms including 
itching, recurrent otitis. The vet also referred to gastroenteric symptoms of food allergy, 
which they thought Mrs Es dog had displayed from the clinical history. While the issues 
presented might also be linked to non-allergic problems (and therefore isolated incidents) the 
fact the same symptoms had subsequently intensified, made the possibility the issues 
presented before policy inception were related to an underlying allergic condition. Red 
Sands also provided a series of published material on allergies in dogs to support their view. 
Red Sands also noted they hadnt received a claim for the cost of treatment  it was a pre-
authorisation request for potential treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Mrs E. 
In doing so, Ive only considered Red Sands decline of the pre-authorisation request by Mrs 
E (for tests to be carried out). It doesnt cover any subsequent treatments that may have 
followed from the tests and the results. The key issue in Mrs Es complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in declining the pre-
authorisation request for tests for her dog. Red Sands view is that they correctly declined 
the request, on the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated the issue was the result of a 
pre-existing condition, so excluded from cover. Mrs Es view is that the previous issues 
werent shown to be related to the present condition.
The second, linked aspect to the complaint, is whether Red Sands acted fairly in applying 
the exclusions (from the policy start date) to exclude cover on all claims in respect of 
allergies of any cause and skin conditions. Red Sands (In disagreeing with our investigators 
view) refer to the clinical history, saying the dog had a recurring ongoing history of digestive 
issues, skin, ear and anal gland issues with the onset of the conditions prior to the policy 
inception and ongoing. And that these indicate the [likely] presence of allergies and skin 
conditions.
On the issue of the decline of the request because of the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of 
the policy (including those referred to by Red Sands in their initial rejection of the request 
and their final response) together with the supporting information and evidence, including the 
vets notes and the clinical history of Mrs Es dog. In their final response, Red Sands refer to 
the policy terms and conditions excluding pre-existing conditions (though it doesnt include 
the precise wording). In their initial decline to pre-authorise treatment Red Sands refer to the 
following wording in the Vet Fees section of the policy:
1.3 Exclusions  the following are excluded from cover:
1.3.1 Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that 
relates to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had 
before the commencement date;
The initial decline refers to the condition was first noted in August 2020 (prior to the inception 
of the policy). However, this is contradicted by the vets opinion the condition (an irritated 
foot) was unrelated to the current issue and unlikely to be the result of an allergy (as only 
one foot was affected). The more likely cause was some form of trauma. As the vet treated 
the dog, I find their view more persuasive. 
The initial decline also includes reference to various issues after August 2020, to November 
2020 concerning the dogs ears. But the clinical notes dont record a clear diagnosis of the 
cause (there is reference to their being dirty). So its not clear the cause is some form of 
allergy (which isnt mentioned). 
The reassessment by Red Sands following Mrs Es challenge includes additional references 
to the dogs clinical history, including issues with diarrhoea and vomiting. The reassessment 
goes on to say the clinical history shows the dog has a long and recurrent history of skin, ear 
and digestive system issues prior to the commencement of the policy (and these symptoms 
are still present (as well as anal gland issues). The conclusion is that these issues are the 
first clinical signs of the condition thought to be underlying allergies noted before the 
commencement of the policy. So, the pre-authorisation was correctly declined.
However, looking at the clinical history, none of the issues referred to in the reassessment 
include reference to potential allergies, nor a clear diagnosis of any underlying cause. Ive 
also considered the additional information provided by Red Sands when responding to our 
investigators view. It refers to allergies as being potential causes of various conditions and 
issues. However, Ive also noted (my emphasis) Red Sands vet acknowledges the issues 
presented might also be linked to non-allergic problems (and therefore isolated incidents) 
and goes on to refer to the possibility the issues presented before policy inception were related to an underlying allergic condition. This indicates a level of uncertainty about whether 
the various issues had a specific [underlying] cause.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the lack of any clear diagnosis of an 
allergy (or allergies) in the clinical history, together with the uncertainty referred to above, 
and as the onus is on Red Sands to show the exclusion applies, I dont think it reasonable to 
rely on a possibility.
Taking all these points into account, Im not persuaded Red Sands have shown enough to 
apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive 
concluded Red Sands acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mrs Es pre-
authorisation. Ive also considered the pre-authorisation was for tests to help identify whether 
there were underlying allergies. Which also indicates uncertainty about the underlying cause. 
Turning to the second issue, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Red Sands to 
apply backdated exclusions (from the policy start date) to exclude cover on all claims in 
respect of allergies of any cause and skin conditions.
In respect of the second issue, Ive noted Red Sands final response (or their initial decline of 
the pre-authorisation and reassessment) dont say Mrs E made a misrepresentation (under 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  CIDRA) when she 
took out the policy. Nor have they applied any of the remedies available under CIDRA in 
such circumstances, such as avoiding the policy. Red Sands base their adding the 
exclusions on the wording of the policy that allows them to do so (which, looking at the 
wording, it does). The wording of the exclusion is consistent with the underwriting guidance 
Red Sands apply when they consider an exclusion is appropriate, the relevant heading in the 
guidance is Allergies (skin) and the wording of the exclusion is:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Allergies of any cause with effect from 
17 April 2021 and excludes cover on all claims with respect to Skin Conditions with 
effect from 17 April 2021
In considering whether it was reasonable to apply the exclusion, as Ive concluded Red 
Sands didnt act reasonably in applying the exclusion for pre-existing conditions to decline 
the pre-authorisation request, because they hadnt shown the conditions before policy 
inception clearly indicated the case as being an allergy, then it follows they didnt act 
reasonably in applying the exclusion for Allergies (skin) to the policy.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what Red Sands need to do to put things right. 
As I dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, I think they should 
settle the cost of any tests Mrs E had carried out (which was the subject of the pre-
authorisation request) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including 
any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If Red Sands settle the costs, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the 
amount settled, from the date Mrs E paid for the tests to the date they reimburse her. 
With respect to the exclusion for Allergies (skin) being applied to the policy, as Ive 
concluded it was unreasonable to do so, then Red Sands should remove the exclusion from 
the policy.
While it isnt a substantive issue in the complaint, Ive also noted the point made by Red 
Sands that they hadnt received a claim for the cost of treatment  it was a pre-authorisation 
request for potential treatment. I accept the point, so have referred consistently to pre-
authorisation request in this decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint. I require 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
Settle the cost of any tests Mrs E had carried out (which was the subject of the pre-
authorisation request) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
Remove the exclusion for Allergies (skin) from the policy.
If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited settle the cost of any tests, they should 
also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Mrs E paid the 
vets bill to the date they reimburse her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman