DRN-2007518
The complaint
Mr D has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds service in connection with a motor 
insurance policy.
 
Background
In 2017 Mr Ds car sustained some damage. At the time he had an esure policy and it 
arranged repairs to the car including repair to the drivers door. In 2019 Mr D told esure he 
had more problems with the drivers door. One of esures engineers said that the recent 
issue with the door wasn't related to the damage or repair from 2017. So esure said it 
wouldn't arrange for further repairs to Mr Ds car. But it noted that Mr D had to return his car 
to the garage a couple of times in 2017 so, to address the impact of that, it paid Mr D £75.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ds complaint. He thought esure had dealt with Mr D fairly. Mr D didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D clearly believed that the problems he experienced with his cars door in 2019 were 
related to the damage and repair from 2017. But one of esures engineers looked into this. 
He said that the two things arent related. The engineer said it was more likely that the door 
had been opened too far; what he described as being opened beyond its yield point. He 
suggested this might have happened if the door was caught by a gust of wind.
In contrast Mr D thinks that the cause of the issue was the repair in 2017. But Im not 
convinced thats the case. esures engineer will have expertise in considering such issues. 
But as far as Im aware Mr D doesnt have that expertise. And he hasnt provided any 
alternative engineering evidence - beyond his comments - to counter esures engineers 
conclusions. So I think it was reasonable for esure to rely on its engineers expert evidence 
that the issues that Mr D experienced with his car door in 2019 werent related to the 
damage and repair in 2017. And from a lay point of view I find that persuasive as I think its 
more likely than not that if the two issues were related. Thats because I think its unlikely 
that it would have taken over two years for Mr D to become aware of the issue if it was 
related to the repair. It follows that I think esures decision to refuse to carry out further repair 
to Mr Ds car was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman