DRN-2624114
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) mis-sold him an Additions Plus 
and Premier Life packaged bank account, which were taken out in March 2006 and 
September 2009. Mr H has complained that he was not made aware of the option of having 
a fee-free account with an overdraft facility. Prior to this complaint being brought to this 
service Barclays refunded the Additions Plus account fees and partially refunded the fees for 
the Premier Life account.
What happened
 I previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 January 2021. My 
provisional decision said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
As Barclays has already accepted it mis-sold the Premier Life account to Mr H, I dont need
to look into how the account was sold. All I need to do is think about whether what Barclays
has already agreed to do is fair. And having carefully thought about everything Ive seen, I
think that this is the case. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr Hs account was migrated from a Premier Life account to a Barclays account with a Tech,
Travel and Home packs in 2015. Barclays has suggested that it will issue a partial refund of
the account fees Mr H paid (plus interest) up until June 2016.
As I understand it, its Barclays position that Mr H was sent letters in 2016 which notified him
that fee free accounts were an option for him. So it contends that it was Mr Hs choice to
keep the account after this point.
I can see that the June 2016 letter says;
If you decide you dont want these changes to apply, you are free to remove the Pack from
your account before 1 September 2016 by calling us on the number at the top of this letter or
coming into a branch.
If you cancel your Pack and you have an arranged overdraft you will not be entitled to the
fee-free amount on your overdraft if there are no other Packs on your account. Well remove
your Pack and change your overdraft as soon as you tell us.
So I think that Mr H was given enough information by June 2016 to have been aware that he
could have a fee free account and retain his overdraft facility and at this point it was up to Mr
H to decide to keep the packs that were added to his account or to just have a fee free
account. So I think that Barclays offer to refund the fees Mr H paid prior to this letter with
interest at 8% is sufficient.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments they wanted to make before I made a 
final decision.
Barclays agreed with my provisional decision and Mr Hs representative did not add anything 
for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, as neither party has provided any new information or evidence, I see no 
reason for me to depart from my provisional findings. I still think Barclays offer is fair and 
reasonable. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons.
Putting things right
 To clarify Barclays should refund the remainder of the Premier account fees that it has not
already refunded up to the June 2016 letter. And Barclays should add interest at 8% per
year simple on each of these fees from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my decision is that what Barclays Bank UK Plc has agreed to 
do is fair and reasonable and Barclays Bank UK plc should pay Mr H redress as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman