DRN-2574471
The complaint
Mr G is represented by N, a firm of insurance claims consultants. He is unhappy that Royal
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay his full home insurance claim for accidental
damage to his septic tank and underground pipe system.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr G instructed N, after he had noticed for several weeks standing water to the
side of his property and a foul smell. He has a septic tank system of drainage. N appointed a
firm of contractors, O, who arranged a survey of the system. This was found to consist of a
catch pit at the side of the house into which water from the kitchen flowed, and a further
catch pit leading into a septic tank at the rear of the property. There was also a blocked
soakaway. They found that one pipe run was damaged and cracked by tree roots and
ground movement. Another pipe run was completely blocked. A foul water pipe was found to
be discharging into a soakaway. O recommended repairs to the pipe runs, rerouting of the
foul water pipe, rebuilding the soakaway and a new distribution chamber system in
accordance with current regulations.
N made a claim to RSA on Mr Gs behalf. It carried out its own surveys and agreed it had
liability for repairing the underground pipes, and replacing a broken dip pipe and a T pipe
leading into catch pits. It further agreed to repair damage done by its contractors to the
manhole cover. It wouldnt pay for the new distribution system as it said the septic tank itself
wasnt damaged. Further it wouldnt pay for the rerouting of the foul water pipe as this was a
defective design. It also wouldnt pay for the soakaway. It said this was likely damaged due
to wear and tear and a gradual loss which wasnt covered under the policy.
I issued a provisional decision. Based on the evidence I said that RSAs position with regard 
to the septic tank was reasonable. I further didnt think it had any liability under the policy to 
repair or renew the soakaway.
RSA advised that its technical team had reviewed the file and decided it is now looking to 
accept the claim in respect of the septic tank. Its now getting in touch with Mr G to arrange a 
site inspection to decide on an accurate estimate and assessment. It has made no further 
comments concerning the soakaway.
N and Mr G have made no further comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
In respect of the soakaway, RSA believes it has failed and will need to be replaced. But
there is a general exclusion in the policy which says:
No cover is provided for wear & tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually.
It says the soakaway has deteriorated over time due to wear and tear. Its contractors pointed
to the fact that there has been foul water draining into the soakaway, which shouldnt have
been happening, and this likely accelerated the damage happening.
On the face of it the soakaway could be covered under the Accidental damage for which
you are legally responsible to drains, pipes, cables and underground tanks providing
services to or from your home. section of the policy. Accidental damage is defined as: 
Damage caused by external means, other than a deliberate act of any of the insured.
Im not clear exactly what it is alleged caused the damage to the soakaway, but as we say
that a blockage or impairment of function can amount to accidental damage Im prepared to
say it could be covered, but for the exclusion Ive quoted above.
I think it likely that the damage occurred gradually and/or happened due to wear and tear. I
dont think the same considerations apply to this as to the pipes where the end result of the
blockage/tree root or ground movement was the system overflowing. In the case of the
soakaway I consider that its failure was likely a side effect of the system discharging foul
water into it. I say this bearing in mind that neither of the parties drainage experts have
investigated the soakaway in detail, so I would be prepared to consider further evidence
about this.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr G didnt know the damage was occurring to the soakaway, our
approach to accidental damage is different from our approach to escape of water or flood
cases. In the case of accidental damage we consider it fair for insurers to apply the
exclusion for gradual loss or wear and tear, whether or not the consumer was aware, or
ought to have been aware, of it happening. This is because it is far more likely to be an issue
with maintaining the home which insurance policies arent designed to have liability for. That
said Im aware that N has shown us some old decisions from this service which may not
reflect that approach. But it is our current approach.
In respect of compensation, although there were delays of a couple of weeks here and there
and while RSA was a bit slow in responding to a request for information from N, I think the
overall claim was handed satisfactorily. So I dont propose to award compensation.
In respect of the soakaway, neither party has commented further on this. So, the position 
hasnt changed and my provisional findings in that respect, as set out above are now final, 
and form part of this final decision.
So far as the septic tank is concerned in light of the new evidence from its technical team, 
RSA will now be looking to accept the claim. As this is now a new matter I wont be looking 
at it in this decision. Mr G and/or N will need to liaise with RSA to take the matter forward. If 
there are any issues over RSAs late acceptance of the claim those should be taken up with 
RSA at first instance.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman