DRN-4497777
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim made 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr H and Mrs H have a home insurance policy underwritten by AXA which covers their 
homes buildings and contents.
They made a claim in late August 2022 after an escape of water at their home.
Theyd had a bathroom re-fitted. Immediately after the plumbing work was done, Mr H and 
Mrs H went away for a week or so. On their return, they found their kitchen  underneath the 
bathroom  flooded.
The leak was quickly traced to a T junction in the pipework in the bathroom and a temporary 
fix was put in place. However, by that time, around £70,000-worth of damage  by Mr H and 
Mrs Hs estimation  had been done, mainly in the kitchen.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the property and recommended that the claim 
be accepted. However, around three weeks after the claim was made, AXA told Mr H and 
Mrs H that theyd be declining it.
Mr H and Mrs H werent happy with this and made a complaint to AXA.
AXAs final response  dated 11 November 2022 - to that complaint said that the decision to 
decline the claim was, as things stood, correct.
AXA pointed out that the policy terms said they would only cover insured events (as listed in 
the policy). And they wouldnt cover:
repairs, alterations, renovations or extensions unless agreed by AXA beforehand in 
writing;
damage arising out of the activities of contractors; or
damage due to faulty design or workmanship.
They said that in Mr H and Mrs Hs case, the leak was from a T junction, fitted around 10 
days prior to the claim, by contractors. That fitting wouldnt fail unless it was either faulty or 
fitted incorrectly.
AXA noted that the relevant parts (the T junction and pipe section) were with the 
manufacturer for inspection. And they said they were willing to re-consider the claim if the 
manufacturer confirmed that the parts were faulty. They added that they might want to 
inspect the parts themselves once the manufacturers investigation was complete.
They also noted a report provided by Mr H and Mrs Hs contractors, which said the leak had 
been caused by a faulty part and not by poor installation. However, they said the report was 
far from independent.
They said it was more likely than not that the leak had been caused by poor installation by 
the contractor. And so, the decision to decline the claim was correct.
Mr H and Mrs H werent happy with AXAs response and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought AXA had acted unfairly in the way theyd handled 
Mr H and Mrs Hs claim.
He said AXA should settle the claim. And they should pay Mr H and Mrs H £100 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset theyd suffered as result of AXAs errors up to the 
date of AXAs final response on 11 November 2022.
AXA disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I decided to issue a provisional decision  rather than a final decision  because AXA have 
kindly agreed that we can consider the trouble and upset potentially caused for Mr H and 
Mrs H after the date of their final response to Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. And I wanted both 
parties to have a chance to comment on my thinking about that.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres any dispute here about what Mr H and Mrs Hs policy says  or 
about which policy terms are relevant. AXA have set that out in their final response to 
the complaint and I think their analysis of the policy terms is correct.
I think though that the final response might have been clearer about AXAs exact 
reasons for declining the claim.
They pretty much get to that when they say they believe its more than likely the leak 
was caused by faulty installation.
However, they do quote other parts of the policy, saying for example that theyll only 
cover insured events (as defined in the policy terms) and that they wont cover 
alterations or renovations unless the works were agreed in advance.
I might go so far as to say that the final response is an attempt to hedge AXAs bets. 
So, for the purpose of complete clarity, Ill address now the policy terms that AXA 
have quoted.
First, the policy is clear that AXA will only cover insured events (as defined in the 
policy). To be clear, Im satisfied Mr H and Mrs H suffered an insured event here  an 
escape of water.
AXAs loss adjuster was clear on that point in his initial report  and he was right  
there has been an escape of water, which is an insured event under the policy terms.AXA also quoted the policy term which says they wont cover alternations or 
renovations unless agreed in advance etc.
Mr H and Mrs H were having alterations or renovations carried out in their bathroom.
However, elsewhere the policy terms say that advance agreement from AXA is only 
necessary if the cost of the renovations or alterations is above a given amount. I 
dont think AXA are disputing that the cost of the work in Mr H and Mrs Hs bathroom 
was below that threshold.
Ill come now to the crux of the matter in this case. AXAs final response says  or at 
the very least strongly implies  that they would be liable for the cost of repairing the 
damage caused by the escape of water if the relevant part(s) were faulty.
Its important to note that theres no suggestion that the part is badly designed. If it 
were, then the policy exclusion for faulty design might be relevant. But if the T 
junction design were faulty in itself, then there would be a lot more leaks up and 
down the country. This type of push in junction is very commonly (if not 
ubiquitously) used these days.
But AXA go on to say  rightly  that they would not be liable if the contractor 
installed the T junction  or the pipework going into it - poorly or incorrectly. That 
would amount to damage arising from faulty workmanship and/or the activities of 
contractors (as per the policy terms).
So, to cut to the chase, it comes down to this  was the part faulty or was it badly 
installed? If the part was faulty, AXA should settle the claim. If the installation was 
poor, they need not settle the claim.
At this point, I should make one important thing very clear. Contrary to what AXA 
have told Mr H and Mrs H at times, the burden of proof  if AXA wish to apply a 
policy exclusion in this case  is on AXA, not Mr H and Mrs H.
We take the view - and its widely accepted in the insurance industry  that its for the 
policyholder to show that there has been an insured event which caused loss or 
damage.
And Mr H and Mrs H have done that in this case  as the loss adjuster said, there 
has been an insured event (an escape of water) and it has demonstrably caused the 
damage for which Mr H and Mrs H are making the claim.
But its for the insurer to demonstrate that an exclusion applies. So, in this case, it 
falls to AXA to show that  on balance  its more likely that the damage was the 
result of faulty workmanship rather than a faulty part.
AXA have  perhaps understandably  suggested that the contractors report about 
the cause of the damage isnt independent. Clearly, the contractor has a substantial 
vested interest in putting the blame on the manufacturer.
However, at present - and throughout the claim - the contractors report is just about 
the only evidence available. You can weigh that evidence however you like, but 
theres absolutely no evidence on the other side of the scales to suggest that the 
contractor installed the pipe and junction badly.
I should also say that the contractors report is quite convincing. It makes sense. The explanation given is coherent and logical.
And its backed by evidence  marks on the pipe appear to show that the ring inside 
the junction which grips the pipe was at an angle, skewed or loose  which it should 
not be.
The contractor says that the teeth marks made by the ring on the pipe indicate a fault 
in the part which caused its teeth to grip the pipe at an angle. And once water was 
put through the pipe, the pressure inevitably caused the ring to buckle and the pipe to 
come loose.
The parts were sent to the manufacturer for inspection and comment. But, according 
to Mr H and Mrs H, the manufacturer has not responded in any way at all. That, in 
itself, might suggest that the manufacturer is unwilling to admit that the part had 
failed.
Whether thats true or not, it seems unlikely that the manufacturer will now provide 
any comment or evidence to contradict the contractors assertion that the part was 
faulty.
So, all the evidence that there is, at present, points to a faulty part and not faulty 
installation. I agree that evidence is not absolutely conclusive. But its all there is. And 
it would be unfair of AXA  given that the burden of proving the exclusion applies falls 
on them  to leave Mr H and Mrs H in a limbo between contractor and manufacturer 
with no hope that either would accept liability.
I would likely take a very different view if Mr H and Mrs H had  over the course of 
nearly 15 months now  obstructed AXAs investigation in any way. If they had, they 
effectively would have denied AXA the opportunity to investigate the matter and find 
any further evidence about the cause of the leak.
However, they havent obstructed AXAs investigations in any way. In fact, their 
representative has offered on a number of occasions to send the damaged parts 
(now returned from the manufacturer) to AXA, so that they can inspect them 
themselves.
AXA  and/or their agents  have conspicuously failed to tell the representative 
where (which person, team or department) to send the parts to. And all contacts at 
AXA - or their agents - have declined to accept the parts themselves. AXA have 
recently admitted to us that theyd failed to act appropriately on the availability of the 
parts for inspection.
I suspect that Mr H and Mrs Hs desire to send the parts to AXA indicates that the 
damage to the parts is as described in the contractors report. And if so, that would 
provide further evidence that the fault is with the part not the installation.
For that reason  and because of the long delay already, which is entirely AXAs fault 
given their inability to take the parts for inspection  Im minded now to require AXA 
to settle the claim, either by carrying out the repairs or providing a cash settlement, in 
line with the policy terms.
Ill summarise my current position. All of the available evidence at present suggests a 
faulty part caused the leak. Its for AXA to show that the exclusion for faulty 
workmanship applies.AXA have already had the opportunity to investigate and find further evidence or 
information about the cause of the leak.  and it would be grossly unfair to Mr H and 
Mrs H to prolong that opportunity any further. Especially given that its very unlikely 
AXA would find anything to suggest faulty workmanship. So, AXA should settle the 
claim.
AXA have agreed that I can consider compensation for Mr H and Mrs Hs trouble and 
upset up to the point the complaint is resolved. As I say, I am grateful to AXA for 
agreeing to that, it enables a quicker and more definitive resolution to this matter, 
without the need for any further complaint to be made.
I dont think AXA delayed the initial investigation of the claim. Their decision on the 
claim was communicated to Mr H and Mrs H less than a month after the claim was 
made.
I think AXA made an error in declining the claim at that point. If they hadnt made that 
error, they would have kept the claim open, in my view. It wasnt unreasonable for 
AXA to say at that point that they would await the manufacturers report so that there 
would be more evidence and/or information about the cause of the leak.
However, that should only have gone on for so long. Once it became apparent that 
the manufacturer - having returned the parts  wasnt going to admit liability, AXA 
should have decided (and settled) the claim on the basis of the information available.
Whether they then chose to pursue the manufacturer and/or the contractor to recover 
their costs would be matter for AXA. But Mr H and Mrs H would have had the repairs 
carried out on their kitchen within months of AXAs decision to settle the claim.
Taking all of that into account, I think Mr H and Mrs H might reasonably have 
expected to have the repairs completed by around February or March 2023 at the 
latest.
AXA didnt cause the water leak at Mr H and Mrs Hs property. And once that leak 
had happened, Mr H and Mrs H were bound to suffer a period of stress and 
inconvenience whilst appropriate investigations were carried out and repairs 
completed.
In terms of my decision, Im interested in how much longer than necessary Mr H and 
Mrs H have spent living with a semi-functional and damaged kitchen  and other 
damage in their house  as result of AXAs errors alone.
Our investigator thought £100 in compensation was reasonable to cover the period 
up to mid-November 2022. I think if things had gone as they should have, Mr H and 
Mrs H would have had a fully repaired house reasonably by around the end of March 
2023 at the latest.
That means that to date theyve had around seven further (unnecessary) months of 
disruption, stress and inconvenience, solely as a result of AXAs errors in handling 
the claim. Their kitchen has been useable but is in a poor state of repair and some 
facilities have been lost.
Once this complaint is resolved (within around six weeks), it will take another three 
months or so for the repairs to be completed. So, I dont think its unreasonable to 
suggest that Mr H and Mrs Hs repairs will have been delayed by about a year overall 
(end March 2023 to end March 2024).If either party disagrees with this estimate, they can let me know why in their 
response to this provisional decision.
Given the considerable level of stress and significant inconvenience experienced by 
Mr H and Mrs H over that additional unnecessary year or so of delay, Im minded to 
require AXA to pay Mr H and Mrs H a total of £750 in compensation for their trouble 
and upset.
So, to summarise, for the reasons Id set out, I said I was minded to require AXA to settle the 
claim  and to pay Mr H and Mrs H £750 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
The responses to my provisional decision 
AXA havent provided any response to my provisional decision.
Mr H and Mrs H have responded. They broadly agree with the outcome I proposed. But they 
dont think the compensation I suggested AXA should pay for their trouble and upset is 
sufficient.
Mr H and Mrs H will forgive me if I try to summarise their arguments rather than repeat them 
word-for-word.
First, they say the unnecessary delays in AXA settling the claim and carrying out the 
required repairs is more like 16 months (December 2022 to March 2024) rather than the 12 
months (March 2023 to March 2024) I suggested in my provisional decision (above).
Second, they think the compensation I suggested was too low bearing in mind that the room 
affected by the escape of water was the hub of their home  a kitchen, diner and family room 
used every day for family time and on occasion to host special events on birthdays and so 
on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither AXA nor Mr H and Mrs H have given me any further information or evidence to make 
me question my proposed outcome to this case. For the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, I remain of the view that AXA should settle this claim.
In terms of the appropriate compensation for Mr H and Mrs H, Ive carefully considered the 
additional points theyve made.
I dont agree with them that the unnecessary delay caused by AXAs failings begins in 
December 2022. If the claim had been accepted immediately after the assessment was 
carried out and works begun in a timely manner, then it would be reasonable to suggest 
things should have been completed before the end of 2022.
However, as I pointed out in my provisional decision, it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to wait 
to make a decision on the claim until after the manufacturer had been given a reasonable 
amount of time to comment on whether the part was faulty.
We all know now that the manufacturer doesnt intend to comment on whether the part was 
faulty. But AXA couldnt have known that at the time. Nor indeed did Mr H and Mrs H. And it 
was them  or their contractors, with their permission - who sent the faulty part to the manufacturer for inspection.
So, I remain of the view that the unnecessary delays here start in March 2023  when its 
reasonable to think AXA should have accepted the manufacturer wasnt going to comment - 
and run to March 2024 (assuming the repairs are carried out in a timely manner).
Mr H and Mrs H have said that appropriate compensation in this case would amount to more 
like £2,500 rather than the £750 I suggested. Of course, thats only in small part because 
they think the relevant period is longer. They also say the room affected by the escape of 
water is the hub of the home.
I understand Mr H and Mrs Hs point. And I understand the strength of their feeling about the 
time it will take for them to get their home back in a good condition so they can enjoy it again 
to the full.
However, its our view  as set out in detail on our website  that compensation between 
£300 and £750 is appropriate where customers have experienced considerable distress, 
upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience and disruption, usually over many weeks 
or months. 
In my view, thats precisely what Mr H and Mrs H have experienced in this case. And Ive 
proposed a compensation award at the very top end of that bracket. Ive borne in mind that 
Mr H and Mrs H have had a functioning kitchen during the relevant period and havent been 
without any necessary facilities.
Putting things right
So, in summary, its my view that AXA should settle Mr H and Mrs Hs claim, in line with the 
terms of the policy. And that they should pay Mr H and Mrs H £750 in compensation.
The reasons for my coming to that conclusion are set out in detail above and in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
settle Mr H and Mrs Hs claim, in line with the terms and conditions of their policy; 
and
pay Mr H and Mrs H £750 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman