DRN-2840059
The complaint
Mr H and Mr L have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unreasonably refused to pay
all of their claim under their travel policy.
References to Aviva include all its agents.
As Mr L has been the main correspondent throughout, I shall just refer to him.
What happened
Mr H and Mr L had their travel policy through their bank account. Well before this trip and
complaint Mr H was involved in an accident which sadly gave him life changing injuries with
a spinal injury, hypoxic brain injury and needing a catheter.
Mr L booked a trip abroad on 8 March 2019 paying a deposit with full payment of the trip
being made in September 2019. They were due to depart on their trip on 20 December 
2019.
Sadly, Mr H required an operation shortly before the trip to remove a kidney stone not
believed to be at all connected to his spinal injury. The consultant said that because Mr H
was at risk of a DVT that he shouldnt travel on this trip. So, Mr L cancelled it and made a
claim to Aviva. Previously in June 2019 Mr H was admitted to hospital with an UTI.
Aviva said that because Mr L didnt tell it Mr H had been in hospital in June 2019, after the
deposit for the holiday was paid, it wouldnt consider the rest of his claim. It did however
refund the deposit paid.
Mr L complained and said the hospital admission in June 2019 had nothing to do with the
reason their trip had to be cancelled. Aviva wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his
complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think Aviva has done anything wrong. Mr L disagreed so their
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2021 and I said the following:
The terms and conditions of Mr H and Mr Ls policy are clear in my view about the 
duty of the policyholder to tell Aviva if they or anyone upon whose good health the 
trip depends is admitted to hospital before any final balance is paid. This is a 
common feature of travel insurance policies such as the one Mr H and Mr L held. 
The policy says the following:
If you, or anyone upon whose good health your trip depends, is referred to a
Consultant/Specialist, or is admitted to a hospital, after you have booked your 
trip but prior to paying any final balance due for your trip, you must call the 
Medical Risk Assessment helpline immediately. We will advise you if you will 
be covered for claims relating to this condition.
It further explains this under what isnt covered as follows:
Any claim for a medical condition where you, your travelling companion or 
any other person upon whose good health your trip depends have been 
referred to a Consultant/Specialist, or have been admitted to a hospital 
between booking your trip and paying any final balance due for your trip 
unless disclosed to and accepted by us.
Aviva initially declined the claim based on a medical report which said the holiday 
was cancelled due to Mr H developing urosepsis. I think, based on subsequent 
medical evidence provided, that this medical report was incorrect. Aviva also said 
that urosepsis related to Mr Hs pre-existing medical condition of hypoxic brain injury. 
I havent seen any persuasive evidence to support this conclusion. So there has 
been significant confusion as to the cause of the claim and Im not surprised Mr L is 
frustrated.
However, Mr Hs consultant wrote a letter to the GP typed on 18 March 2020, which 
explains the issue Mr H suffered from much better in my view. This confirms that 
following several bouts of urosepsis Mr H had a scan which showed he had a kidney 
stone, which had to be removed. Given this increased his risk of DVT he was advised 
not to go on this holiday. However, the analysis of the kidney stone came back as 
calcium phosphate which this consultant said would be in keeping with an infection.
Following booking the holiday and paying the deposit, Mr H was admitted to hospital 
in June 2019 with a UTI and possibly urosepsis. And because Mr L didnt explain this 
to Aviva as he was required to do under the policy terms, I consider it wasnt 
unreasonable for Aviva to only refund the deposit paid.
Aviva says if it had known about the admission to hospital in June 2019, it then 
wouldnt have covered any claim linked to the UTI. The consultant has linked them, 
given the analysis of the kidney stone as he said the analysis of the kidney stone was 
in keeping with infection. Therefore, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Aviva 
to refuse to pay any element of the claim which relates to money paid for the holiday 
after Mr H was admitted to hospital in June 2019.
From the consultants letter I think its clear the kidney stone was linked to an 
infection and theres no dispute Mr H had UTI infections leading up to the discovery 
of the kidney stone and that he was admitted and treated in hospital for these from at 
least June 2019.
So, if Mr L had told Aviva Mr H was admitted to hospital in June 2019, as the policy 
required him to do, then Aviva would have sought to exclude anything to do with or 
related to UTIs and I consider, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the reason for 
the claim (the kidney stone) is connected to the UTIs or urosepsis. This means I 
dont think the balance of Mr H and Mr Ls claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy, and I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining their claim.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr L said he now understood the issues 
more fully and he had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, there is no further evidence in this case so therefore I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions made in my provisional decision.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman