DRN-4425292
The complaint
Mr A complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (Liberty) has unfairly settled a 
claim under a landlord policy using an average clause.
Any reference to Mr A or Liberty includes any representatives or respective agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known between parties so Ill summarise events.
Mr A owns five properties, all insured under one Liberty policy.
Mr A made a claim to Liberty for malicious damage and an escape of water at one of 
his properties. Another complaint concerning a secondary claim to a related property 
falls under another reference considered separately by this Service.
Liberty considered the claim and accepted it. But it said Mr A had failed to make a 
fair presentation of risk when taking out the policy by stating the propertys rebuild 
value as £50,000. Liberty said the actual rebuild value was around £115,000.
Liberty said it would settle the claim on the basis of its average clause within its 
policy. This reduced the claim in question from £5,682 to £2,150 (after excess)  
43.5% of the claim.
Mr A complained saying its position was unfair. Liberty issued its final response in 
March 2022 and stood by its position.
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked at what 
happened. He said Mr A had not made a fair presentation of risk when taking out the 
policy. But the Investigator said Liberty had failed to demonstrate or provide any 
evidence to support that it wouldve done anything differently.
So, the Investigator said Liberty should cover the claim without reduction  neither 
applying its average clause or a proportionate settlement in line with the Insurance 
Act  taking into account the remaining terms and conditions. And he said it should 
pay Mr A £400 for trouble and upset caused.
Liberty disagreed and estimated it wouldve charged £474.65 (plus IPT) for a rebuild 
cost of £115,000. And given Mr A had paid £206.37 (plus IPT) he had only paid 
43.5% of the correct premium. It also said it had calculated this on the basis that the 
estimate for the rebuild cost of the risk property was £115,000 which it had applied to 
all five of Mr As properties as they were similar.
Our Investigator considered this and wasnt persuaded Liberty had demonstrated 
what it needed to in regard to premiums and assessment of rebuild value of the five 
properties. 
Liberty provided evidence from its broker which it said highlighted the premium 
calculation was based on the sums insured and not underwriting loading. This didnt 
change the Investigators mind, so the complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
On 16 October 2023, I issued a provisional decision outlining why I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
In this case, the claim has hinged on Mr As property in question being insured for 
an inaccurate sum. Mr A hasnt disputed that the figure given of £50,000 was too low 
in hindsight and a figure of £115,000 put forward by Liberty is reasonable.
So, when accepting the claim, Liberty sought to rely on an underinsurance term 
within its policy wording. This states:
"Underinsurance
If at the time of damage the total of the sums insured on buildings specified in 
the policy schedule is less than 85 % of the reinstatement cost of the 
buildings covered by this section we shall bear only that proportion of the 
damage which the total of the sums insured on buildings bear to the total 
reinstatement cost."
On its face, its evident that the sums insured on the buildings was less than 85% of 
the reinstatement cost. So, it appears Libertys underinsurance clause would apply to 
this scenario. However, I have to consider whether its application of this term is fair in 
the circumstances.
To decide this, Ive thought about the fact this is insurance taken to cover a 
commercial property. And the problem has arisen due to the information Mr A gave 
when taking out the policy. This means the appropriate rules I have to consider is the 
Insurance Act 2015.
Under this Act, I need to first consider if Mr A has made a fair presentation of risk to 
Liberty. In doing so I have to take into account if every material representation as to a 
matter of fact is substantially correct and every material representation as to 
expectation or belief is made in good faith  taking into account what Mr A shouldve 
provided and what impact this information had on Libertys decision to insure him and 
on what terms.
As Ive stated above, Mr A hasnt disputed that the figure he gave in hindsight was 
inaccurate. And I understand he sought advice from an estate agent when obtaining 
his figure. But I dont consider this to be a reasonable presentation of risk or answer 
to the value of a propertys rebuild value (as it was listed in the insurance documents 
 the building sum insured).
There has been some discussion previously about whether it is fair for Liberty to use 
a rebuild sum of £115,000 across all five properties. Mr A did insure all of his 
properties for the same sum (£50,000) indicating he believed they were all of similar 
value. Liberty has explained they are all similar build which Mr A hasnt disputed, nor 
has he provided anything to show otherwise. So, I think Libertys decision to use this 
sum across all five properties was reasonable in the circumstances and I have no 
concerns with this.
Mr A has indicated hes unhappy with the broker who sold him the policy and the 
advice they gave him about the value he gave. However, that is not the complaint I 
am considering, any matter between him and the broker would need to be addressed 
separately.
So, Ive gone on to consider what impact this has had on Libertys decision to insure 
Mr A and/or the terms it wouldve done so on. It has provided calculations and 
evidence from its broker supporting that Mr A has paid around 43.5% of the amount 
he would have done had the building sum been reasonable when input. Im satisfied 
this is an accurate indication of the true cost Mr A wouldve paid - rising his premiums 
from £231.13 to £531.61 for each property.Taking into account what the Investigator had said previously about using the remedy 
under the Insurance Act 2015, Liberty has then provided two calculations as to 
potential settlements. One using the average clause it initially sought to use, and the 
second using the proportionate reduction taking into account the premiums paid.
Under the average settlement, it has calculated a settlement sum of £2,150 (after 
deduction of average and excess). Which is what I understand it has paid Mr A.
Under the proportionate settlement, it has said a settlement sum of £1,971.67 (after 
proportionate reduction and excess) would be due  suggesting this method wouldve 
led to a worse settlement for Mr A. Although by my own calculations both methods 
would use a figure of around 43.5% and led to the same result.
But in any case, going back to Libertys decision to rely on its average clause, it 
seems in this instance this has led to either the same or a more beneficial settlement 
for Mr A than the alternative available to it. For this reason, Im currently satisfied its 
decision to do so did not come at a cost of detriment to Mr A and therefore was fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances.
I concluded that I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint, nor award any compensation, as 
it appeared Liberty had provided a fair settlement from the outset. I gave both parties until 30 
October 2023 to provide any responses. 
Liberty responded to say it agreed with my decision and had nothing further to add. Mr A 
questioned the settlement  taking into account he had been charged two excesses for 
claims related to this address. 
Our Investigator responded to this point in the first instance, confirming Mr A had been 
charged two excesses on the basis of there being two separate perils claimed for at this 
property. So, the matter has been passed back to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, neither party has given anything material to consider 
regarding the settlement. So, my thoughts havent changed, and I see no reason to depart 
from what Ive concluded previously.
Mr A has since challenged Libertys decision to charge him more than a single excess for 
claims related to this property. Having reviewed the matter, its evident to me the events 
claimed for are separate with separate causes. So, Im satisfied Libertys decision to charge 
for multiple excesses is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman