DRN-1762404
The complaint
Mr S complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) unfairly declined his claim 
for repairs under his mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S had a breakdown recovery policy with Acromas that provided roadside assistance with 
a third party provider and would pay for resulting repair costs up to the value of £500, less 
the excess.
On 6 July 2019, Mr Ss car broke down. He called his roadside assistance provider and his 
car was diagnosed as having a mis-firing cylinder. Mr S asked for his car to be taken to his 
preferred garage, 30 miles away, but because that was too far away, the roadside 
assistance provider instead took his car to a closer garage for further investigation. 
The garage called Acromas to report a number of issues it had discovered, which included a 
faulty SAM unit. Acromas told the garage it could only assess the cause of the breakdown, 
which the garage said was the SAM unit. But because the garage said the SAM unit showed 
signs of water damage, Acromas declined Mr Ss claim to cover the costs. It said water 
damage was excluded under Mr Ss policy, so Mr S had to pay the garage bill of £324 
himself.
A few days later, Mr Ss car broke down again, having driven only a few more miles, so he 
called his roadside assistance provider once more. A senior technician carried out the visit 
and called Acromas to say he had seen the old SAM unit and couldnt see any signs of water 
damage. He said the same fault was still present and the previous repair had not fixed it.
The roadside assistance provider this time agreed to tow Mr S to his preferred garage, who 
ultimately diagnosed a faulty fuel pump. Acromas paid for the new repairs and Mr Ss car 
was fixed. But Mr S came to our service, saying he wanted Acromas to pay the costs of his 
first visit as the fault had been misdiagnosed and hadnt repaired his car.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, and noted Acromas had agreed the first garage 
misdiagnosed the fault, and said the SAM unit didnt appear to be faulty. So, he said the 
costs Mr S incurred were not as a result of water damage, but as a result of a misdiagnosis, 
which wasnt excluded under Mr Ss policy.
Acromas didnt agree. It said the first garage had inspected the SAM unit and identified 
water damage. And that the roadside assistance providers technician who said there were 
no signs of water damage only inspected the part out of its location. So, Acromas asked for 
an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas is entitled to decline a claim made by a customer, if it falls within the policy 
exclusions. On this occasion, the exclusion Acromas has relied on to exclude Mr Ss claim 
allows it to decline a claim for:
Any cost for Mechanical or Electrical Failure caused by accidental damage, frost, freezing, 
blockage, water penetration, road traffic accidents, theft or vandalism.
So, if the cars failure was caused by water penetration to the SAM unit, Acromas is entitled 
to decline Mr Ss claim. If it was not, I need to decide if Acromas has applied the exclusion in 
a fair and reasonable manner.
Theres conflicting evidence as to whether or not the SAM unit had suffered water damage 
and even as to whether or not it was faulty. The first garage that inspected Mr Ss car said it 
ran the appropriate tests for the particular car and inspected the SAM unit, saying there was 
evidence of water damage.
But Mr Ss car still experienced the same problem after the SAM unit was replaced. And the 
car only started working again when the fuel pump was replaced. When the roadside 
assistance providers senior technician re-inspected the car (Mr S kept the old SAM unit), he 
said there was no sign of water damage to the SAM unit.
In its final response letter to Mr S, Acromas accepted the original garage had misdiagnosed 
the defect. But, Acromas later said that acceptance was a mistake, although it does accept 
its possible the car was misdiagnosed. It noted that the roadside assistance providers 
senior technician had reported no water damage, but it didnt offer an explanation as to why 
that diagnosis was incorrect, save to say that the SAM unit had been inspected out of its 
location.
Having listened to what both parties have told me, and having thought about all of the 
evidence both parties have provided, Im not persuaded the SAM unit was damaged by 
water penetration. Im satisfied the first garage carried out the correct tests, using the correct 
equipment. And that a fault with the SAM unit was detected. And while the car failed again a 
few miles later, I accept Acromass argument that the SAM unit was also faulty.
With that being said, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me on the balance of 
probabilities that the SAM unit was damaged by water penetration. Acromas has provided 
generic photographs of a water damaged SAM unit and has suggested such damage is 
irreversible. And the roadside assistance providers senior technician said he couldnt see 
any water damage. 
Because of what Acromas says, I find it hard to understand why the senior technician 
couldnt see any signs of water damage. And I find his evidence to be more compelling that 
the first garage which seems to have made an incorrect or incomplete diagnosis, and failed 
to fix the car.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy exclude costs caused by water penetration. But, 
because of what Ive said above, Im not persuaded the costs Mr S incurred were caused by 
water damage. So, I dont consider Acromas has fairly applied the policy exclusions.
Clause six of Mr Ss policy does exclude faults identified by the garage that did not cause the 
initial breakdown. But because of what I say above, Im satisfied the SAM unit was 
damaged, but Im not persuaded that damage was caused by water ingress, so I cant say 
the costs were caused by a fault that didnt cause the initial breakdown. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Acromas must pay Mr 
Ss claim in the value of £324.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman