DRN-3386452
The complaint
Mr Z complains Barclays Bank UK PLC charged too much for a payment he made.
What happened
Mr Z wanted to send a payment in Euros and used a money transfer company, which Ill 
refer to as A, to complete the payment. Mr Z paid for the transfer by card. But something 
went wrong with the transfer and A refunded Mr Zs payment.
Mr Z made a second card payment to A a couple of days later. This second payment wasnt 
refunded.
Mr Z then saw hed received less money back as a refund than hed initially paid. Mr Z paid 
£2,692.12 to A but was only refunded £2,499.44. Mr Z contacted Barclays and asked it why 
hed lost over £160.
Barclays told Mr Z the card scheme had applied the charges, so Mr Z called them. The card 
scheme is not based in the UK, and Mr Z was charged for making an overseas call.
The card scheme told Mr Z it hadnt applied any charges. Mr Z then complained to Barclays. 
Barclays responded to say it had applied charges to Mr Zs card payment in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Zs account. The charges were for making a payment on a card 
in a different currency.
Barclays also explained Mr Zs refund had been smaller than the amount debited because of 
an exchange rate loss. And Barclays had applied charges for the payment being in a 
different currency.
Barclays also acknowledged Mr Z had been given the wrong information when he was told 
to speak to the card scheme. Barclays apologised for this poor service and said it would be 
providing feedback to the adviser.
Mr Z brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator thought the charges applied to Mr Zs card payments were fair as they were laid 
out in the terms and conditions.
The investigator included some calculations to show the amounts Mr Z paid, and received as 
a refund, looked correct. The investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do more to resolve 
this part of Mr Zs complaint.
But the investigator thought Mr Z had lost out when he was told to call the card scheme. The 
card scheme is based overseas, and Mr Z was charged for the call. Mr Z said the charges 
were £10.50 and the investigator thought it would be fair for Barclays to refund this amount.
Barclays agreed with this outcome, but Mr Z didnt. Mr Z still felt Barclays should refund the 
charges and losses hed incurred.
Mr Z also looked through the terms and conditions of his account and saw Barclays now 
needs to notify their customers about overseas payments. Mr Z says if hed known in 
advance what the charges were, hed have made the payments another way.
Mr Z asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays terms and conditions state a 2.99% Non-Sterling Transaction Fee will be applied to 
debit card transactions made in a currency other than Sterling. When Mr Z paid A by debit 
card the payment, and the refund, was completed in Euros.
Im satisfied the charges applied were applied in line with the terms and conditions. Because 
of this, I dont think Barclays needs to refund any of the charges.
Mr Z said payments overseas have a different, much lower charge. But Mr Z didnt make a 
payment overseas, he used his debit card to make a transaction. I dont think the cost of an 
overseas payment applies to the payment Mr Z made to A.
I realise Mr Z was charged a fee three times, once for the initial payment to A, once for the 
refund and again when Mr Z made the second payment to A. But the payments made from, 
and to, Mr Zs card werent in Sterling, so I think Barclays can apply the fee to each 
transaction on his card.
Mr Z has said Barclays must now message consumers when a payment is made in another 
currency, and this is correct. But this message is sent after the payments been made. Mr Z 
doesnt have an option to cancel the payment following the message. So I think Mr Z would 
always have made the first payment to A by card.
Barclays has said it sent a message but has no proof of this. I think its likely a message was 
sent, but even if it wasnt, I still dont think Barclays needs to refund any of the charges.
The message Mr Z would have received would show what the total amount debited in 
Sterling was, it wouldnt have shown any fees applied. The message should also show what 
the exchange rate for the entire transaction was.
Mr Z couldnt make the second payment to A until after hed received the refund. I think its 
likely Mr Z had seen the amount hed been debited, and refunded, when he made the 
second payment to A. But Mr Z still made the second payment to A by card.
Since Mr Z made the second payment by card, its fair to assume Mr Z was, at the time, 
happy to make that payment by card.
I understand Mr Z says he wouldnt have made the payment again if hed known about the 
charges. But the message from Barclays wouldnt have told Mr Z about the charges, just the 
total amount debiting his account.
I think Mr Z already knew the information that would have been in any message from 
Barclays when he made the second payment, but he made it anyway. So I dont think Mr Z 
would have made the decision to pay another way whether he received the message from Barclays or not.
Mr Z also complains he received less money back when he was refunded by A. Some of this 
loss was the fees Barclays applied, but some was an exchange rate loss.
When Mr Z paid A the rate for buying Euros was used. When A refunded Mr Z the rate for 
selling Euros was used, and these rates arent the same. Theres generally a variance 
between the buy and sell rates for foreign currency, so I dont think Barclays was wrong to 
apply slightly different rates for the payment and the refund.
It wasnt Barclays fault A couldnt complete Mr Zs transfer and made a refund to his card. 
I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for an exchange rate loss that 
wouldnt have happened had A been able to complete Mr Zs transfer the first time around.
And had A been able to process Mr Zs initial transfer, he wouldnt have incurred a further 
two Non-Sterling Transaction Fees, one for the refund and one for the second payment.
But Barclays did give Mr Z incorrect information. Instead of telling Mr Z the fees had been 
applied by Barclays, it directed him to the card scheme.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Mr Z called the card scheme because Barclays told him to, and this wasnt a call 
he needed to make. And Im satisfied there were likely to be additional charges for this call. 
Mr Z says the call cost £10.50, so its reasonable Barclays refunds this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Zs complaint in part. Barclays should pay Mr Z £10.50 to 
cover the cost of the call he made. But I dont think Barclays needs to do anything else to 
resolve the other parts of Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman