DRN-4033974
The complaint
Mr S, a sole trader, is unhappy with how Metro Bank PLC defaulted his Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) for non-payment. 
What happened
Mr S had a BBL with Metro on which he was scheduled to begin making monthly payments 
in May 2022. Mr S didnt make the May 2022 payment, and he also didnt make the June or 
July 2022 payments. This meant that when Mr S spoke with Metro in mid-August 2022, his 
BBL was three months in arrears with another payment due later that month.
During the August 2022 call, Mr S explained that hed been unable to make the scheduled 
payments because he hadnt been paid by clients, but that he was beginning to receive 
payments from clients and wanted to come to a payment arrangement moving forwards. 
Mr S agreed to a payment deferral plan with Metro whereby he would only make monthly 
interest payments  and no payment towards the capital balance  for the next several 
months. And, regarding the arrears that had accrued on the BBL up to that time, Mr S 
agreed to make further payments of £98.10 per month for eleven months to clear those 
arrears and made the first of these payments with the agent he spoke with at that time.
But Mr S didnt make the September arrears payment hed agreed to, and when he called 
Metro again in October 2022 to discuss his account and come to a new payment 
arrangement, he discovered that Metro had defaulted his BBL for non-payment. Mr S wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Metro responded to Mr S and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
defaulted his BBL for non-payment as they had. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Metros response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Metro had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Metro have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
When Mr S spoke with Metro in August 2022, his BBL was already in a position of multiple 
arrears, with three payments having been missed at that time. As such, when Mr S 
telephoned Metro in August 2022 to advise of his financial difficulties, his BBL was already in 
a position where the defaulting of that account for non-payment was a possibility.
One reason I say this is because BBL providers such as Metro have certain obligations 
regarding the defaulting of BBLs, including not allowing a BBL to remain in a position of 
arrears indefinitely. This is because a BBL in arrears is reported as being in arrears by the 
loan provider to the credit reference agencies, so that the BBL holder incurs ongoing 
adverse credit file reporting while the loan is in arrears. And also because a BBL in arrears 
will continue to incur interest on the account balance, meaning that the account holder can 
fall further and further into debt with each passing month  to the account holders detriment.
As such, where a BBL has fallen into a position of multiple arrears, as Mr Ss account was, 
and where the BBL provider feels that the account holder has little chance of clearing those 
arrears in the immediate future, that BBL provider has an obligation to consider defaulting 
the account  which has the effect of halting the accrual of further interest, effectively 
freezing the account balance, and allowing both the BBL provider and the account holder 
greater flexibility in the arrangements that can be agreed to enable the account holder to 
repay the balance outstanding in a manner suitable to their present financial position.
When Mr S spoke with Metro in August 2022, he agreed a payment deferral plan whereby 
he would only pay the monthly interest that accrued on the account balance for the next 
several months and wouldnt make any payments to reduce the capital balance of the BBL 
during that time. And Mr S also agreed to clear the arrears on the account  the three 
payments that hed missed  over the course of the next eleven months at £98.10 per 
month. As such, Im satisfied that Metro did give Mr S an opportunity to rectify the position of 
his account and avoid the BBL being defaulted for non-payment. 
But Mr S didnt make then make the payments that hed agreed to make. Specifically, while 
Mr S did make an initial payment of £98.10 with Metros agent on the August 2022 call, he 
didnt then make the next payment that was due on that agreement  in September 2022  
and so didnt meet the arrears repayment plan that hed agreed to.
Mr S has said it wasnt explained to him by the Metro agent with whom he spoke in August 
2022 that his BBL might be at risk of being defaulted if he didnt meet the arrears payment 
plan. But Ive listened to a recording of that telephone call, and I can confirm that Metros 
agent clearly explains the potential consequences of missing a payment to Mr S, including 
that his BBL may be defaulted for non-payment. 
Additionally, Metro sent letters to Mr S on 6 October and 11 October 2022 which explained 
that the required payment as per the agreed payment plan hadnt been made and that Mr S 
should contact Metro about this as a matter of urgency. And, when no contact from Mr S was 
received, and with the October 2022 payment becoming due, Metro issued a formal demand 
to Mr S on 23 October 2022 which advised Mr M that his BBL had been defaulted and that 
full repayment of the balance of the BBL was now due.
Metros actions in issuing this formal demand dont seem unreasonable to me. This is 
because Mr S hadnt made the monthly payments he was required to make as per the BBL 
agreement such that arrears had accrued on the account and because Mr S didnt then 
make the payments hed agreed to make with Metro to clear those arrears after discussing 
his BBL account arrears with them. And Mr S also didnt contact Metro in regard to his being 
unable to make the payments hed agreed to in August 2022 until after Metro had issued the 
formal demand to him in October 2022, despite Metros earlier letters asking him to do so.Mr S has explained that he was unwell, which contributed to him not making the payments 
that were due on his BBL. But Mr S has also explained that he didnt tell Metro of his health 
issues, which means that Metro couldnt take them into account. 
While I acknowledge Metro not being aware of Mr Ss health issues is unfortunate, I dont 
feel it can reasonably be said that Metro have acted unfairly here by not taking them into 
account. This is because I dont feel a business can act unfairly regarding circumstances 
that they havent been made aware of. Additionally, even had Metro been aware of Mr Ss 
health issues, Im not convinced that a different outcome would have occurred here. This is 
because Metros obligations as a loan provider  as described previously  would have 
remained, even in consideration of any health issues Mr S may have told them about.
Mr S has said that he was focussing on securing the money owed to him by his clients so 
that he could pay the BBL arrears and future payments. But he didnt communicate this to 
Metro after not making the arrears plan payments hed agreed to make. And even if Mr S 
had explained his position to Metro, Im not convinced that Metro should reasonably have 
taken a different course of action here, given that theyd already agreed an arrears payment 
plan with Mr S which hed failed to honour  which I feel would have cast reasonable doubt 
on Mr Ss ability to honour any new, re-agreed plan.
All of which means that I dont feel that Metro have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
towards Mr S in how theyve managed his BBL account here. And it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Metro to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman