DRN-2062844
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about how Covea Insurance plc handled and settled a claim they 
made under their home insurance for accidental damage to their bath.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S hold a household insurance policy, which is underwritten by Covea. This policy 
was incepted in December 2016 and a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made 
available to Mrs and Mr S at around that time. 
On 18 November 2019 Mrs and Mr S contacted Covea to report that their bath had been 
damaged and had a hole in it. They told Covea a family member had slipped while getting 
out of the bath, which had led to them putting the heel of their foot through it. Mrs and Mr S 
stated this is what had caused the hole. And they said theyd effected a temporary repair 
themselves using cement and filler.
Covea asked Mrs and Mr S to send it photographs of their bath, which they duly provided. It 
then instructed a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to as B in this decision, to undertake an 
inspection of the damage.  
B visited Mrs and Mr S property on 22 November 2019 in order to determine the cause of 
damage to their bath. B also conducted a telephone interview with the family member that 
had caused the damage.
Having inspected Mrs and Mr S bath and spoken with the family member that had caused 
damage, B told Covea the hole in the bath was too large to have been caused by the heel of 
a foot. And it said the location of the damage was usual. It said the broken parts of the bath 
and surrounding fibres faced inwards, which suggested force had been applied towards the 
inside of the bath rather than from the outside.
B didnt think the damage it had seen was consistent with the circumstances of the fall Mrs 
and Mr S described. Instead, it felt the damage had been caused by a blunt instrument 
rather than a foot. In view of Bs opinion, Covea repudiated Mrs and Mr S claim and 
informed them that the damage theyd reported was excluded under their policy.
Mrs and Mr S werent happy with how Covea proposed to resolve their claim. They said the 
damage to their bath had been caused accidentally by their family member falling. So, they 
complained that Covea wouldnt meet their claim. 
Covea investigated Mrs and Mr S concerns. But it maintained its stance that it didnt think 
the damage had been caused accidentally  as was required by their policy. It therefore 
didnt uphold their complaint about the way it had settled their claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how Covea had dealt with their complaint Mrs and Mr S referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and initially recommended 
upholding this complaint. At that stage, the were persuaded the damage to Mrs and Mr S 
bath was consistent with the incident theyd described. But they later advised Mrs and Mr S 
theyd misunderstood the content of Bs report and thought the damage was more consistent 
with a blunt object being used. They therefore didnt recommend upholding this complaint. 
But Mrs and Mr S were unhappy with the way in which our investigator had assessed their 
complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs and Mr S and Covea, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Covea made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr S unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything 
they and Covea have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs and Mr S 
will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs and Mr S bath. However, theres 
disagreement between them, Covea and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage 
and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mrs and Mr Ss bath is not repairable and requires replacing. Theyd like Covea to cover that 
cost because they say the damage to their bath was caused accidentally. Their policy with 
Covea provides cover for accidental breakage of fixed sanitaryware forming part of the 
buildings. This would include Mrs and Mr S bath. 
Accidental breakage is defined in Mrs and Mr S policy as sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected physical breakage caused by and identifiable external means. But, for a claim 
to be successful, Mrs and Mr S would have to show that the damage theyre claiming for has 
been caused suddenly, unintentionally and unexpectedly.
In determining whether Covea acted fairly in declining Mrs and Mr S claim for damage to 
their bath Ive considered the photographs that have been provided to our service, Bs 
opinion of the cause of damage and the account Mrs and Mr S  gave as to how they believe 
the damage was caused.
The photographs Ive seen show a hole in the bath. The exact size of the hole isn't clear 
from the photo as theres no scale. But judging from the size of other objects that can be 
seen in the photographs the hole appears to be very large. It certainly seems a lot larger 
than the heel of a foot. And, like Covea, I also think the location of the damage is unusual.
The broken parts of the bath and surrounding fibres that can be seen on the photographs 
are facing inwards. However, if a foot had gone through the bath Id expect the broken bits 
and fibres to be facing outwards, from where the foot was pulled back out of the hole. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that the damage to Mrs and Mr S bath 
is consistent with it being caused by the heel of a foot. It appears more likely that the hole 
was caused by a blunt instrument as B suggests in its report.I know Mrs and Mr S disagree with this. But B is a buildings inspector with expertise in 
determining the cause of damage in a case like this. Im satisfied B has provided Covea and 
our service with cogent evidence that the damage to Mrs and Mr S bath was caused by a 
blunt object rather than the heel of a foot. The photographs Ive seen support Bs opinion 
about that. 
I can see both Covea and our investigator offered Mrs and Mr S a number of opportunities to 
provide independent evidence to demonstrate that their bath had been damage in the way 
they claimed. Mrs and Mr S havent forwarded any cause of damage evidence to our 
service. And this means I havent seen anything that contradicts Bs opinion of how the 
damage occurred here.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded Covea made an error in 
attributing the cause of the damage here to a blunt instrument. As the damage Ive seen 
cant be said to be sudden, unintentional and unexpected it isnt covered under the 
accidental breakage section of Mrs and Mr S policy. 
I know Mrs and Mr S will be disappointed with this decision. I know they feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why they brought this 
complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined Im satisfied Covea has acted fairly and 
reasonably in repudiating Mrs and Mr S claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman