DRN-4052595
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt make reasonable adjustments for him.
What happened 
Mr G had a relationship with Revolut since 2017. He used live chat since that time.
Mr G complained that he found live chat difficult to use given his disability. He said that 
Revolut claimed to have special vulnerability champions but he hadnt been transferred to 
them at any time. He said Revolut didnt therefore support such customers. He found live 
chat and email distressing. He said Revolut should make a reasonable adjustment for him  
to include a dedicated phone line for vulnerable customers, and to receive letters by post. He 
said he had made a complaint of personal discrimination against a named agent which 
hadnt been dealt with or responded to.
Revolut said they took on board Mr Gs points and would feedback to the necessary people 
in the firm. Two complaints, one in 2020 and one in April 2022 hadnt been actioned and 
dealt with. Since April 2022, Mr Gs contact with Revolut had been about the type of 
assistance that Revolut give vulnerable customers. They said they have a dedicated team 
who provide training and guidance to their chat handlers. But they agreed that Mr Gs 
experience hadnt been very good. And they do not, as a firm, accept incoming calls, but 
they offered to arrange a call with Mr G to discuss his issues. They dont send 
communications by post  due to its environmental impact. Because their service hadnt 
been as good as it might have been, they paid compensation of £100.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Revolut should do more. He could 
see that on three occasions, a complaint was lodged and not dealt with. And the complaint 
against a named agent hadnt been looked at. He was also concerned about the number of 
against dealing with Mr G  e.g. on 20 April 2022, he was dealt with by five agents within 90 
minutes. And it wasnt clear how Revolut dealt with vulnerable customers in the way theyd 
explained it to Mr G. He accepted that it wasnt reasonable to ask Revolut to set up a 
dedicated phone line for vulnerable customers; nor to send communications by post. Our 
investigator said Revolut should pay an additional £100 in compensation.
Revolut accepted this, but Mr G asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it 
has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that his disability means that he finds it difficult to engage on banking matters by 
live chat and email. Therefore, he says that Revolut should make reasonable adjustments to 
deal with him. He would like Revolut to:
- Send him letters in the post.
- Set up a dedicated phone line for vulnerable customers such as himself.
- He also says that Revoluts support for vulnerable customers isnt what they claim it 
to be  as he wasnt dealt with by that team when he contacted Revolut. 
- He says he lodged complaints and they werent dealt with. He also said a complaint 
about discrimination regarding a named agent wasnt investigated.
Letters in the post. Revolut said in their final response that they couldnt send letters by post. 
And in their submissions to us, they said it is not part of the way they do business to send 
letters  it isnt part of their business model.
Phone line for vulnerable customers: Revolut also said this wasnt possible in their final 
response. And in their submissions to us they also said it isnt part of the way they do 
business. 
So  Ive thought about these two aspects of Mr Gs complaint. This service resolves 
individual disputes between customers and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of 
Revolut UK  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to 
change their policies or practices. So  here, its for Revolut to make its own commercial 
decisions as to how it runs its business. So  we cant make Revolut send letters to Mr G or 
set up a dedicated phone line in the way he suggests. Its fair to say  Revolut are an app-
based bank who dont offer those facilities, and nor can we make them do so. 
Support for vulnerable customers: Revoluts final response said they have trained 
vulnerable customer champions for customers such as Mr G. So - I looked at the live chat 
interactions with Mr G since 2017, and it isnt clear if he was, or wasnt, being dealt with by 
such staff, or was transferred to them. We asked Revolut about this and they told us that in 
fact, these staff provide training and guidance in dealing with vulnerable customers  they do 
not deal with such customers directly. So  Mr G was never going to be dealt with first-hand 
by those members of staff. And  reading Revoluts final response again, I think it does 
explain that. But of course  this should still mean that Mr Gs experience with Revolut was 
handled properly. Which  I dont think it was, given the number of different chat handlers 
that Mr G was passed between over a period. 
Complaint not dealt with: I could see that at least two complaints were made by Mr G, in 
2020 and then in April 2022  which werent dealt with. Revolut admitted this in their final 
response. The complaint made by Mr G in April 2022 was about a named live chat agent - 
and Revolut didnt send a response to Mr G about that. We asked Revolut more about this 
and they told us that in this case, theyve dealt with this internally and have given feedback 
to the member of staff concerned. And I think we have to accept that.
For me, its clear that Mr G didnt get good service from Revolut, given that he is a 
vulnerable customer. And I agree with our investigator that for the level of service that Mr G 
received, Revolut should pay an additional amount of compensation - £100.
But in all honesty, we cant make Revolut send him letters by post, and the way they do 
business (for every customer) is always going to be by web chat or email. If Mr G finds that 
banking with Revolut isnt giving him the service and support that he needs, then he may 
wish to consider changing to another bank.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd must:
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience. This in addition to the 
£100 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman