DRN-3856870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Great Lakes Insurance SE, unfairly turned down their holiday 
cancellation claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held an annual travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, which renewed in 
October 2020. 
Theyd booked a family holiday for August 2020, which included a villa abroad. Due to 
Covid-19 restrictions, they were unable to travel on the holiday. The villa provider said it 
could offer a re-booking for the following year, and would carry over the deposit already paid. 
Mr and Mrs B chose to take this offer from the provider, and re-booked the villa for 2021. 
However, in March 2021, Mr and Mrs B and their family expected they would still be unable 
to travel to stay at the villa theyd booked, due to continuing Covid-19 restrictions. So they 
cancelled and made a claim against their travel insurance policy, for the costs theyd paid for 
the villa booking. 
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the policy in place excluded cancellation claims 
related to Covid-19 restrictions, so the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs claim were not 
covered. 
The annual trip policy Mr and Mrs B held at the time of the cancellation in March 2021, ran 
from October 2020 until October 2021. And the terms include the following exclusions 
related to Covid-19. 
General exclusions that apply to the whole policy 
This policy does not cover the following: 1. Apart from coronavirus (COVID-19) cover 
under the Cancellation and Abandonment sections and the Emergency medical 
and associated expenses section, this policy does not cover any claim arising 
directly, or indirectly, from any coronavirus disease, including but not limited to 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and COVID-19, or 
any related or mutated form of the virus. This includes the fear or threat of catching 
coronavirus, and the advice, or action, of any government or medical practitioner not 
to travel or preventing travel.
What is not covered under Cancellation and Abandonment
25. Where the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised against travelling 
or advised against all but essential travel due to coronavirus as described in the 
General Exclusions
Mr and Mrs B had renewed their policy in October 2020, and their previous policy for 2019  
2020 had not included the same exclusions relating to Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs B complained. They said they thought Great Lakes had acted unfairly, and had 
they cancelled the villa instead of re-booking it in 2020, they thought their claim would have 
been covered. They said they called the insurer for advice before they accepted the offer to 
re-book the villa and said the claim should be assessed against the 2019  2020 policy 
terms. 
Great Lakes said it thought it had assessed the claim correctly and against the correct policy 
terms. And said it had been unable to access all of the calls Mr and Mrs B had made, as 
these were taken by its third party agent.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they thought Great Lakes 
hadnt acted unfairly. And once provided with the missing telephone call, they said they 
didnt think the business had provided any incorrect advice about the re-booking or potential 
for future claims.  
Great Lakes made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed. In summary they said they thought they had acted fairly in agreeing to the re-
booking, rather than making a cancellation claim in 2020, and thought the claim should be 
paid.
Mr and Mrs B asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say insurers should act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers, 
and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a 
claim. 
Ive also thought about the travel restrictions in place at the time Mr and Mrs B cancelled 
their villa booking in 2021. And having done so, I think their claim has been fairly declined. 
And Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B renewed their policy in October 2020. I note they have questioned whether or 
not the claim should be assessed against the 2019  2020 policy terms, rather than the 2020 
 2021 terms, which include the exclusions relating to Covid-19. However Im satisfied the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation claim arose during the 2020  2021 policy 
year, and after the earlier policy had already ended. So I think Great Lakes has assessed 
the claim against the correct policy. 
Im satisfied the 2020  2021 policy terms and conditions clearly and prominently set out the 
cover and exclusions related to Covid-19. And having checked the travel guidance at the 
time, I think the exclusion relating to cancellations due to FCDO advice has been applied 
fairly to the circumstances of this claim.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Bs points around the possibility of having made a claim in 
2020 for the costs of the villa deposit, instead of accepting the providers offer to carry it over 
to re-book in 2021. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs point of view that they saved their insurer 
money by not making a claim at that time, and they said had they known their re-booking 
wouldnt have been covered, they may have cancelled instead. However, theres no guarantee that a cancellation claim would have been accepted at that time. I think its most 
likely that because the villa provider had offered the option of a re-booking with no loss of the 
deposit, Great Lakes would have viewed Mr and Mrs B to have made no financial loss, and 
as such it may have turned down any such claim. 
And Ive considered the conversations Mr and Mrs B had with Great Lakes agent over the 
phone. The call recording and call notes provided by the business show no evidence that Mr 
and Mrs B were advised to take the re-booking option, or that they received any confirmation 
that their re-booking would be covered under the previous policy years terms. So Ive not 
been persuaded that Great Lakes has done anything wrong. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B as I understand they lost a considerable amount of 
money. But I dont think their claim is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy in 
place at the time of the cancellation. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Great Lakes Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman