DRN-4139463
The complaint
Mr S is complaining on behalf of L  a limited company  about the way Zurich Insurance 
PLC has handled a claim L made on a commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S says, in October 2022, a leak from the property above Ls premises occurred which 
caused damage to Ls premises. So L contacted Zurich to claim on the insurance policy that 
covered the building in which it owned the leasehold. Zurich appointed a loss adjustor to 
investigate the claim on its behalf.
Mr S was unhappy with the conduct of the loss adjustor. He said the loss adjustor continually 
asked him what the cause of the leak was. But he says hed explained the leaseholder of the 
above didnt engage with him. And he said it was for Zurich to contact the freeholder or the 
leaseholder itself.
In December 2022 the loss adjustor advised it had completed its investigations and it said it 
had passed this information to Zurich. Following this, Zurich contacted Mr S to say it wanted 
to complete a video interview to discuss some aspects of the claim. Mr S responded to say 
he didnt want to have a recorded video interview as he was worried about the implications 
that may arise from an out of court settlement hed reached in 2019. And he asked Zurich to 
attend Ls premises to carry out the interview.
Zurich didnt agree to go to Ls premises and said the only option was a recorded video or 
telephone conversation. It said this was standard practice. Mr S said he wouldnt agree to 
this and wanted a face to face meeting at Ls premises. Zurich later agreed to a face to face 
meeting, but it said it would need to be conducted at Zurichs offices. Mr S maintained that 
the interview was to be conducted at Ls premises and he thought it was unfair Zurich was 
holding up the claim settlement. And he said this delay was impacting Ls staffs health. 
Zurich maintained it would not attend Ls premises, so Mr S referred Ls complaint to this 
Service. And he said he thinks Zurichs actions amount to racial profiling. Finally he said he 
wasnt the policyholder of the insurance policy  the freeholder was  so he said he wasnt 
bound by Zurich processes.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Zurich had explained its concerns were 
in relation to Mr Ss conduct and communication with the loss adjustor on previous claims. 
So it had a duty to safeguard its staff, which is why it wasnt willing to attend Ls premises. 
The investigator said Zurich was entitled to make further queries as part of the claim 
investigation. And he said he was unable to force Zurich to attend Ls premises. Finally, he 
said he hadnt seen anything to show that Zurich had racially profiled Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed since offered to have the meeting 
conducted at his solicitors office. So he queried why this wasnt being agreed. He said he 
had a right to safeguard himself and he thought the investigator was being biased by not 
taking this into account. He said there wasnt anything to support that hed been aggressive 
or acted unreasonably.
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that Im only considering Zurichs actions up to when it issued its final 
response to Ls complaint in February 2023. Im aware the claim has moved on since then, 
but Im unable to comment on anything thats happened after February 2023.
Firstly, I note Mr S has said that L is not bound by Zurichs terms and processes because its 
not the policyholder. But I respectfully disagree. While it isnt the policyholder, it is a named 
beneficiary of the policy and its seeking to rely on the terms of the policy to claim for the 
damage. So, if L wishes Zurich to settle the claim under the insurance policy it is bound by 
all the policy terms  including the requirement to assist with any enquiries Zurich may have. 
So it wasnt for L to dictate how a claim should proceed. But if it wished for Zurich to settle 
the claim under the terms of the policy it needed to agree to any reasonable requests Zurich 
may have.
That said, Zurich also had a duty to treat its customers fairly and to take into consideration 
any concerns they may have. I dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich to want to carry out 
an interview as it wanted to understand whether any of the damage being claimed for was 
pre-existing  i.e. related to leaks it had settled previously. And its standard practice that 
online video meetings are used to carry out such interviews.
I recognise that Mr S had concerns about the interview being recorded, which is why he 
wanted a face to face meeting. But, even if it had been face to face, a written statement 
would have been taken of everything Mr S had said. So, in all circumstances there would be 
a record of what was said. However, Zurich still had a duty to consider Mr Ss request. I note 
he says Zurich has racially profiled him by refusing to attend Ls premises.
I should first state that this Service isnt the regulator. So its not our role to direct Zurich 
generally about how it conducts its business. But I can look at whether it has treated Mr S  
as an employee of L  fairly. Its also not our role to say whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a 
number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not 
Zurich has breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to take it into account, if its 
relevant, amongst other things when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
The Equality Act 2010 (the Act) is relevant here and Ive thought how it applies in Mr Ss 
case. The Act prohibits several types of discrimination  such as direct and indirect 
discrimination and victimisation  and the relevant protected characteristic here is race.
Zurich has said it didnt want to attend Ls premises because of the way Mr S had spoken 
with the loss adjustor previously. But, as I said, Mr S thinks Zurich was racially profiling him 
in this refusal. But I dont agree. Mr S is essentially saying that Zurich indirectly discriminated 
against him  and in turn L. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said and also thought about Zurichs reasons for not wanting to attend Ls premises. In its submissions to Zurich, the loss adjustor had said Mr S had 
been aggressive during the claim and abusive towards its claims handlers. Ive also seen 
some emails between Mr S and the loss adjustor and I note hes said the following in some 
of his emails:
And then you hire idiots from [the loss adjustor]
You are testing our patience? Or you are just incompetent?
Let me please say this, you are out of your depth, and talking complete non-sense. You 
want to try us, be our guest.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Zurich has made its decision on grounds of 
race. Im not saying Mr Ss actions amount to aggressive or unreasonable behaviour. But, 
given the concerns the loss adjustor raised, I cant say it was unreasonable for Zurich to not 
want to conduct the interview at Ls premises. I think it took the decision to safeguard its staff 
and I dont think it was unfair for it to make the decision it did.
I recognise Mr S wanted the interview to take place in a manner of his choosing. But, as I 
said above, Zurich was entitled to have control of the claim process and I havent seen 
anything to show its acted unfairly in the way its done so.
Ive also considered the concerns Mr S raised about the loss adjustors actions at the start of 
the claim  notably that he says it was asking him to provide information hed said L couldnt 
provide. But I dont think the loss adjustor acted unfairly. In the first instance, it was Ls 
responsibility to demonstrate that any loss or damage arose from an insured peril. So it was 
ultimately for L to show that there was an escape of water that caused the damage. This is 
what the loss adjustor was setting out and I cant say this was unfair. I can also see that the 
loss adjustor did explain to Mr S it was also making these enquiries with the freeholder, 
which he did. And it was ultimately through these enquiries that he was able to complete his 
investigations. So, I cant say that the loss adjustor acted unreasonably in the handling of the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S  on behalf of 
L  to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman