DRN-2952379
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Allay Claims Limited are asking him to pay their success fee for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim made in his late wifes name.
  
What happened
Mr T said that in July 2019, with the approach of the deadline for making PPI claims, he 
looked at Allay as they offered a free PPI checking service. Mr T said at the same time he 
checked with his lenders whether he or his late wife had any PPI policies.
Mr T said he told Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf and didnt return any of the 
documentation they asked him to sign. He said most of his lenders had told him he didnt 
have any PPI policies, but he did get an offer of redress from one of his late wifes lenders. 
Mr T said Allay asked him to pay their success fee for this successful claim. Mr T 
complained to Allay as he said hed never given them permission to look into a claim for his 
late wife. And despite knowing this they kept writing out to his late wife asking for their fees. 
Allay said a letter of authority (LoA) had been completed and signed in July 2019 and theyd 
submitted this to the lenders. The lender Ill call M had accepted the submission and 
investigated the mis-sold PPI claim on behalf of Mr Ts late wife. Allay said as the claim with 
M was successful, their fee was justified. For a claim with another lender Ill call B, Mr T 
had cancelled Allays services before any redress was paid, so they asked him to pay them 
for the work theyd done. But as a gesture of goodwill they agreed to remove this 
cancellation fee. Mr T wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator accepted that Allay had acting in good faith in submitting the LoAs to the 
lenders. But the LoAs were in the name of Mr Ts late wife and not the estate of his late wife 
as they were signed July 2019 when Mrs T had died in 2016. He said Allay couldnt have 
been authorised by her to pursue her claim for PPI. He asked Allay to waive their fee.
Allay didnt agree, they said Mr T was the beneficiary of the estate and hed asked them to 
check whether he and his wife had any PPI policies. As Mr T hadnt cancelled the agreement 
their success fee was justified. They asked for the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the LoA completed in July 2019, in the name of the late Mrs T. The 
applicants details were that of Mrs T and her name was pre-printed on the LoA by Allay. 
This LoA was signed but it doesnt mention that Mrs T was deceased. Nor does it mention 
anyone acting as an executor for her. 
I can see that M told Allay Mrs Ts claim was successful in September 2019, and the 
notification clearly says that the PPI found was in the name of the late Mrs T. Allays 
records show they sent a Great News email addressed to Mrs T a few days later that said 
that PPI had been found and a claim was being investigated by M. This after theyd already 
been made aware that Mrs T was deceased, and that the claim had already been upheld by 
M.
And in October 2019, Allay sent their invoice for their success fee again addressed to Mrs T. 
In December 2019, I can see Allay said theyd an audit trail of data for the application and 
that they assumed the LoA  had been signed on behalf of the late Mrs T. They asked for a 
copy of the death certificate, but I cant see they asked for another LoA to be signed by the 
estate of Mrs T.
From Allays records I can also see that claims for other lenders were closed, one for a 
lender Ill call L because the LoA was invalid. I can also see that in March 2020 B notified 
Allay that the LoA they held was also invalid.
Allay has said that Mr T confirmed he used their online advert to apply for a PPI check and 
the contact details provided are those of Mr T. And I can see the same contact details have 
been given to us. So as our investigator said, Allay wouldnt have been aware at the time of 
the application that Mrs T was deceased, and they submitted the claims to the lenders in 
good faith. But when making the online application, the applicant in signing the LoA  is 
agreeing to Allays terms and conditions. But as I outlined above the only applicant named 
on the  LoA is Mrs T, and it wasnt possible for her to agree to Allays terms and conditions 
or to sign the LoA. 
As Mrs T died in 2016, the application needed to have been made on behalf of the estate of 
Mrs T. The LoA should have shown both, Mrs Ts name and that of the person acting for the 
estate, in this case Mr T , as he has grant of probate. When Allay became aware that Mrs T 
was deceased,  they should have sent Mr T, an LoA that correctly reflected the claim being 
made. And if hed wanted Allay to act for the estate Mr T could have confirmed hed read the 
terms and conditions and signed the LoA giving his authorisation. But they didnt, so as I 
dont think Allay was authorised to act on behalf of Mrs Ts estate, they cant charge their 
success fee for her claim.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Allay Claims Ltd to waive their fee.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman