DRN-4281904
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain that they were mis-sold an investment they made in a bond issued
by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc). Mrs and Mr C says they were misled that the bond was a
safe investment  but have since lost their money and would like to be refunded. They also
feel that they were misled into believing their funds would be loaned to multiple companies
and not just one.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond Mrs and Mr C invested in was a B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income
Bond. For a period of time, sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG
Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged
applications for investments in the bonds. And it was responsible for advertising and
marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mrs and Mr C interacted
with, but the point of dispute is noted, and I will consider in my findings whether Mrs and Mr
C actually dealt with BGF instead.
Mrs and Mrs C and their investment in the bond
Mrs and Mr C invested a total of £10,000 in the bond. This followed phone discussions
between Mrs and Mr C and a representative of BG Ltd. They say they were persuaded to
take out the investment by the representative who assured them it was secured and
protected. They also say they remember the representative kept on reiterating that
there was a limited time in which they could invest they felt very pressurised each time they
called into investing.
The administrators of BG Ltd have provided some recordings of these discussions, but a
number are missing  so I do not know the full detail of what was discussed. BG Ltds log of
applications shows Mrs and Mr C being recorded as an Everyday Investor. The certificate
dated 26 February 2018 for the bond Mrs and Mr C invested in confirms £10,000 was paid in
the B&G Plc 3 year Fixed Monthly Income Bond with annual rate of 6.22% p.a.
Mrs and Mr C have told us they were retired at the time and that they invested around 15%
of their life savings in the bond. They say they had only previously invested in ISAs and only
wanted to invest in low risk investments.
On 8 January 2019, BGF (which by that point had taken on the role of BG Ltd), sent an email
to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that nearly all the
money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day lender.
Following action by the FCA, the pay day lender went into administration in March 2020 -
and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs and Mr C have not
had their invested capital returned to them.
The application process
From the available evidence, it is not completely clear how Mrs and Mr Cs application was
made. They both recall speaking to a relationship manager at BG Ltd when completing the
application. This is supported by the available telephone records.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to the complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. It said Mrs and Mr C had been given
sufficient information and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further
submissions, once Mrs and Mr Cs complaint was referred to us. I have considered the
submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium describes as its position
statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints about B&G
Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs and Mr Cs complaint and concluded it should be
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs and Mr C as 
restricted investors and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for them 
- was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs 
rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs and Mr C wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs and Mr C to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mrs and Mr C for the loss they suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
The investigator has misdirected themselves on whether Gallium was responsible for 
the matters complained about as the sale took place during the interim period.
B&G Finance Limited (BGF) was authorised by the FCA on 2 January 2018 and 
began to promote the bonds to investors from that date. In particular, the website and 
telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. At no point was BGF an 
authorised representative of Gallium, and Gallium had no responsibility for the 
actions of BGF.
It has not found that Mrs and Mr C actually spoke to anyone at B&G Plc or BG Ltd for 
whose conduct Gallium had any responsibility, or that Gallium actually operated the website through which the Mrs and Mr C invested and which contained the 
certification and appropriateness questions which form the basis of the assessment. 
Rather, the available evidence suggests Mrs and Mr C spoke to representatives for 
whom BGF was responsible and applied to invest through a website process 
approved by BGF.
Gallium has provided a witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023
on subject of who is responsible for arranging the investment, which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by 
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making 
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond 
investments.
It is his understanding that in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold 
representatives and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim 
period all regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G 
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments, were 
conducted by BGF
BG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between Basset 
& Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which 
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the 
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the 
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but 
he recalls what was discussed.
Gallium has also provided a general submission which contained some further evidence
relating to what it describes as the interim period. This included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018.
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
representative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails.
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds compliance officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed representative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons.
A list of calls made by B&G Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month.
My provisional findings
I recently issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s)
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to
decide whether we can consider Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
It is not clear how exactly Mrs and Mr Cs application came about  whether it was done
online, over the phone or a combination of the two. But, Im satisfied Mrs and Mr Cs
complaint is about the arrangement of their investment in the bond and the exchanges they
had with the representative in the period up to the arrangement of the investment beingconcluded. In short Mrs and Mr C say they were misled during those exchanges.
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the
same extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the
representative in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mrs and Mr Cs complaint is about a regulated activity, carried
on by an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
Is Mrs and Mr Cs complaint about a regulated activity?
I am satisfied Mrs and Mr Cs complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a
security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs and Mr C made their
investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts
such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off,
with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article
25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I
am satisfied the application process  whether it took place online or over the phone  falls
within the scope of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mrs and Mr C to invest
in the bond, and had the direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its 
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same. This
agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  in February 2018.
So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium accepted
responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it.
I note Gallium, in its response to the view, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote
the bonds to investors and that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF
from that date. However  save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points
and in any event inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has
provided no evidence to support this point.
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it wasBG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case. Ive paid particular attention
to the February 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report which Gallium
provided. The following questions are asked of Basset Gold:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify
the firm as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And
have you provided copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month? Have all
investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial promotions prior to
promotion and such categories kept on file?
Each of these questions was answered Yes.
Attached to the February 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Mrs and Mr Cs
26 February 2018 investment.
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the
activities of B&G Ltd, as it was B&G Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made
promotions and arranged investments.
Gallium also provided a copy of the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly
Compliance Report which features a post-it note stuck to it, which says:
Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7/ They may need to
consider new loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as
terminating end of Feb, but worth mentioning to them
This suggests that Mrs and Mr Cs investment was made prior to the termination date at the
end of February 2018.
Mrs and Mr C dealt with a Relationship Manager helping them through the application on the
phone. While the full history of call recordings arent available, from what I have been able to
listen to, it is apparent that Mrs and Mr C had an existing relationship with the person they
were dealing with and they were quite familiar with each other.
If the Relationship Manager was no longer working on behalf of BG Ltd, and after 2 January
2018 and was instead working for BGF, I would have expected this to be explained. I say
this given Mrs and Mr Cs interactions with BG Ltd were ongoing at that point. But Ive not 
seen evidence this happened, in fact to the contrary it seems more likely the Relationship
Manager was still working on behalf of BG Ltd.
In addition to this, through other complaints this service has adjudicated on, we have seen
numerous examples of bond sales that link BG Ltd to arranging investments during the
interim period. We have seen evidence in the form of emails and telephone calls that
indicate that investors were dealing with representatives of BG Ltd when arranging bonds
around the time period when Mrs and Mr C took out their investment. For example, weve
seen several emails from January 2018 sent to investors from BG Ltd Relationship
Managers and the email footer states, Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative of
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority.
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mrs and Mr C applied to invest through awebsite process approved by BGF. But I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium
refers to. As I have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which
makes any reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd.
Returning to the witness statement - this includes the following:
On 4 January 2018, I received an email from [name of the owner of the Basset
Gold/Basset and Gold businesses], the ultimate owner and controller of Basset &
Gold, which confirmed that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now
know that it is BGF that was the entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had
become FCA authorised on 2 January 2018. [name of the owner of the Basset
Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] requested a meeting to discuss the best way to
transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
I met with [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] in the
hotel he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting
took place on 11 January 2018 as [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and
Gold businesses]s email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he would be in London
the following Thursday, which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of what we
discussed at the meeting, but so long after it took place I cannot now locate my
notes. I do, however, recall what was discussed.
At the meeting, [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses]
and I agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new financial
promotions with immediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own
regulated firm, BGF. [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold
businesses] also informed me that BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and
online application form, to reflect that BGF was now responsible for the promotion of
the bonds and arranging any investments made in the Bonds.
As mentioned, there are a number of things about the witness statement which are unclear.
But, even I accept what the statement says as an accurate reflection of the position at the
time (and, to be clear, given the available evidence otherwise, I do not) it does not in any
event amount to evidence BGF was responsible for Mrs and Mr Cs investment.
I say this because the witness statement says a meeting  to discuss a transition to BGF
from Galliums appointed representatives  took place on 11 January. Galliums ex-director
says his recollection of that meeting was that at the time of the meeting Gallium would no
longer be responsible with immediate effect and BGF now being responsible. Which
suggests, on Galliums ex-directors recollection, responsibility passed from Gallium to BGF
on 11 January 2018. That is contradictory to previous statements that BGF were responsible 
from 2 January 2018, so casts doubt over the statements made.
Ive considered the latest general submissions Gallium has presented to support its view that
it isnt responsible for answering Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. In my view this is all evidence
B&G Ltd was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  including the investment Mrs and
Mr C made  at the time of this investment, and was doing so as an appointed
representative of Gallium. I say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time.
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence B&G Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and recording promotions and arrangements being made by B&G Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time.
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018.
The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from B&G Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place.
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January
2018, as Gallium response to the investigators view says, or that it had any involvement in
Mrs and Mr Cs investment. All the evidence I have seen supports a contrary position. Im
satisfied Mrs and Mr Cs complaint is about acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in a complaint against it.
The merits of Mrs and Mr Cs complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs and Mr Cs into certifying themselves 
as belonging in a category to which they did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs and Mr C 
fairly or acting in their best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled 
Mrs and Mr C, it is unlikely they would have certified themselves as being restricted 
investors.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs and Mr C. In the circumstances they 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to them.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs and Mr Cs
complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs and Mr C would either not have
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to
ask Gallium to compensate Mrs and Mr C for their loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Gallium didnt provided a response beyond the general submission which I considered in my 
provisional findings. 
Mrs and Mr C didnt have any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not been persuaded to change the view set out in my provisional decision. To
confirm, my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision, for the
same reasons. For those reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that
Mrs and Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs and Mr C would either 
not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had 
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate them for their loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
and Mr C as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not invested in 
the bond.
I take the view that Mrs and Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs and Mr C fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs and Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay Mrs and Mr C £300 for the distress caused. This recognises the worry that they 
felt when B&G failed.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs and Mr C in a clear, simple format.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
dateTo (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
the final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs and Mr C agrees to Gallium taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs and Mr C that they repay to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments,
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs and Mr C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs and Mr 
Cs circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs and Mr C would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could 
have obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman