DRN-2969988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Starr International (Europe) Limited has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker on 9 December 
2019, to cover a multi-stage holiday. They were due to travel between 20 March and 10 April 
2020. 
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Ms home country imposed a 
national lockdown on 14 March 2020. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 18 March 2020, Mrs Ms 
GP advised her against travelling, as she suffered from both asthma and high blood 
pressure. The GP said this put Mrs M in the high-risk category of suffering complications of 
Covid-19. So Mr and Mrs M cancelled their holiday and made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
Starr turned down the claim. It said that as Mrs M hadnt suffered a sudden illness, the claim 
wasnt covered by the cancellation section of the policy. While the policy did include travel 
disruption cover, which (amongst other things) extended cancellation cover due to changes 
in FCO advice, this section was an optional add-on. As Mr and Mrs M hadnt opted to take 
out this cover, or paid the additional premium, they werent able to claim under this section.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Starrs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She accepted that on 
a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered. But she 
noted that the policy specifically excluded cover if a policyholder travelled against medical 
advice. So she considered Mr and Mrs M were left in the position where they werent 
covered if they didnt travel and they werent covered if they did. The investigator didnt think 
this led to a fair and reasonable outcome, so she recommended that Starr should reassess 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim in line with the cancellation section of the policy.
Starr disagreed and Ive summarised its response. It maintained that there was no medical 
reason why Mr and Mrs M couldnt travel. It considered that the investigator had assumed it 
wouldnt cover Mr and Mrs M if theyd travelled against medical advice, but that this hadnt 
been substantiated. It felt Mrs M had cancelled the trip due to a fear of becoming unwell, 
which ought to be considered as disinclination to travel. It said that Covid-19 affected people 
indiscriminately and in its view, Mrs Ms asthma made her no less able to travel than anyone 
else. It argued that the medical certificate formed part of the claim form and was solely to 
support the cancellation claim. It maintained that Mr and Mrs M had decided against taking 
out the travel disruption add-on which wouldve covered their situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Starr has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly. Ill explain why.
Relevant Regulatory Rules
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say that a firm should
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to act
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. It
also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of
Customers, which also forms relevant regulatory guidance, states that financial businesses
should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on customers throughout the lifecycle
of the service being provided.
Ive also borne in mind the relevant law, which includes the unfair terms provisions in the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
The Policy Terms
So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the
available medical evidence to decide whether Starr treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with Starr. As theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs M cancelled
their trip and their policy schedule shows that they didnt take out the optional travel 
disruption cover, I think the relevant section of the contract is Section 1: Cancellation. This 
says:
Covered
You are covered up to the amount specified on your Policy schedule for travel and pre-
booked accommodation, pre-booked excursions up to €/£250, cancellation costs, relating 
only to those people specified on the Policy documentation. Cancellation must be necessary 
and unavoidable and not as a result of disinclination to undertake your planned trip. Cover is 
only provided due to a cause listed below occurring during the period of insurance:
1. Accidental bodily injury, serious illness, death or being subject to quarantine of you, any 
person with whom you are intending to travel or stay, an immediate relative of yours or a 
close business associate of yours;
2. You being called for jury service, attending court as a witness (but not as an expert 
witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court);
3. You or any person with whom you have arranged to travel being made redundant (after 
booking your trip) where you / they have been employed for two continuous years with the 
same employer at the time of being made redundant and are under the normal retirement 
age for someone holding that position;
4. Your home or place of business being made uninhabitable within 14 days prior to the date 
of travel, or the police asking to see you after a theft from your home, which occurred within 
14 days of travel; 5. Abandonment of your trip as a result of more than 24 hours travel delay on your outward 
flight, sea crossing, coach or train departure from your country of residence (see Section 5 
'TRAVEL DELAY AND ABANDONMENT').
In this case, while I dont doubt that the national governments decision to lockdown on 14 
March 2020 and the subsequent change in FCO advice did feed into Mr and Mrs Ms 
decision to cancel their trip, Im not persuaded these were the main reasons. It seems that 
given Mrs Ms existing health conditions, she was concerned about whether Covid-19 posed 
a particular risk to her and so she sought advice from her GP. 
Ive looked closely at the medical certificate the GP completed as part of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim form. Ive placed particular weight on this evidence, as the GP is a qualified medical 
professional, who had the opportunity to examine Mrs M and close hand and determine the 
possible impact of Covid-19 on her health. I also have no reason to doubt their considered 
opinion. The GP stated:
Patient is asthmatic and hypertensive. Because of her asthma, she belongs to the high risk 
group of patients to be at higher risk of complications in case she gets coronavirus infection. 
She should avoid travelling at this time.
The medical certificate says that the GP advised Mrs M that cancellation was necessary on 
18 March 2020 and that this was the sole reason for cancellation. This ties in with the claim 
submission from Mrs Ms broker, which was made on 18 March 2020, suggesting that the 
trip was cancelled at this point.
In my view, it was Mrs Ms concern about the high risk Covid-19 posed to her if she 
contracted it which was the main reason Mr and Mrs M decided to cancel their trip. I dont 
agree that this was a simple case of disinclination to travel. Having looked carefully at the 
policy terms, I can see that cancellation due to a medical practitioner advising against 
continuing travel isnt something the policy covers. So I agree that on a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms, Mr and Mrs Ms claim simply isnt covered by their contract.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. Thats the case here. I say that because the policy also includes a
a list of general exclusions. This says:  
You are not covered for anything caused as a consequence of the following:
-You travelling against the advice of a Medical Practitioner.
So in this case, the terms of the contract state that if Mr and Mrs M had taken their trip as 
planned, they wouldve been travelling against Mrs Ms doctors advice. Accordingly, this 
means their policy wouldve, in all likelihood, been invalidated and they wouldnt have been 
entitled to cover under the policy, apparently under any section.
As such, if Mr and Mrs M had travelled despite the doctors advice, it seems to me that their 
policy wouldve been of no value to them whatsoever. In effect then, Mr and Mrs M were left 
in a position where they werent covered if they travelled when the GP had told them not to 
and they werent covered if they cancelled their trip. And in my view, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable - in the circumstances of this case  for Mr and Mrs M to have no cover when it 
appears they were left with no option but to cancel their trip following the doctors advice to 
do so.I appreciate Mrs M didnt suffer an exacerbation of asthma or hypertension. But her doctor 
thought her condition put her at high risk of illness if shed travelled. So Im satisfied the 
cancellation was due to an illness  albeit indirectly..
So overall, in these particular circumstances, I currently think the fair and reasonable
outcome is for Starr to consider a claim for Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation costs, in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Starr International (Europe) Limited to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation claim, 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman