DRN-3670849
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) failed to respond to his 
claim against it under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) 
in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in May 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation.
In March 2022 Mr M asked Shawbrook for compensation under the relevant provisions of the 
Act. He said the installer had misled him into believing that the panels would be self-funding, 
which they werent. He also asked to be refunded for some repairs that had been carried out 
by a third party which had identified some shortcomings with the installation of the panels.
Shawbrook acknowledged the claim, but after eight weeks it had not provided a substantive 
response. So Mr M brought this complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M. But she told Shawbrook to contact the CMC directly with its response to 
Mr Ms claim for the cost of the repairs.
The CMC did not agree. It said:
the adjudicator had given too much weight to the installers sales documents;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law, yet the 
adjudicator appeared to have put the onus on Mr M to discover that the system would 
not be self-funding by reading the sales documentation;
it was not credible to suggest that Mr M would have agreed to buy the system unless 
he had been told that it would pay for itself;
as Mr M was an eye-witness to what happened at the sales meeting, and the 
salesmans direct testimony had not been obtained by Shawbrook, Mr Ms evidence 
ought to be preferred.
Shawbrook told the adjudicator that it was still entitled to eight weeks to investigate Mr Ms 
complaint (in addition to the time it had already had to consider his claim under section 75).
The adjudicator did not agree with the submissions made by either party. So the case was 
referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional decision which read as 
follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Under rules made by the FCA, Shawbrook is entitled to eight weeks to consider Mr Ms 
complaint that it did not uphold his claim under section 75. This is in addition to the time 
which elapsed between Mr M bringing his claim to Shawbrook and referring this complaint to 
our service.
However, I think that Shawbrook has had its eight weeks. Our service told Shawbrook about 
this complaint on 6 July 2022, and eight weeks later was 31 August. As I write this 
provisional decision, it is 20 September. So I am satisfied that I have the power to consider 
this complaint.
Repairs
Mr M has provided receipts for repairs carried out by a third party. These receipts itemise the 
work done, and set out a summary of the problems with the installation of the panels. The 
total cost of the repairs was £1,073.41.
Under section 75 of the Act, Shawbrook is liable for a breach of contract by the installer. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Mr Ms contract with the installer included implied 
terms that the panels would be fit for purpose and the installation would be carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. So, having regard to all of that, I am minded to say that 
Shawbrook must reimburse Mr M for this work, with interest at eight per cent a year from 
2 November 2020 to the date of settlement.
Misrepresentation
I agree with the CMCs analysis of the law, which I have summarised above. If the salesman 
did mislead Mr M about the system, then it would not be a defence for either the installer or 
Shawbrook to say that Mr M could have discovered any misrepresentations simply by 
reading the quote in his own time to find out the true position. Rather, the relevance of the 
quote is that I do not think it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that the salesman made 
oral representations which he knew were contradicted by the quote at a meeting in which the 
quote played a central part.
Therefore, although I have not heard directly from the salesman, I do not accept the CMCs 
submission that Mr Ms own evidence is the only evidence about what was said at the 
meeting. The quote is also evidence about that.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold the complaint about 
misrepresentation. That is because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the 
cost.
I have seen a one-page document called Performance & Earnings Forecast. This says in 
bold capital letters Year 1 Benefit (£) and next to that is the figure £795.75 (I have rounded 
this to the nearest full penny). I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some small 
print. Just below that it says that the cost of installing the solar panels (subject to survey) will 
be £8,500. In fact, the cost turned out to be £8,000. Mr M agreed to pay for this with a ten-year loan, so it would have been quite clear that he would have to pay £800 a year, plus 
interest. That is obviously more than the estimated benefit in the first year.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr M about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Subject to any further representations I receive from the parties by the deadline below, 
I intend to order Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Mr M £1,073.41, plus simple interest on 
that sum at the rate of 8% a year from 2 November 2020 to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted my provisional findings. Shawbrook did not object to them in principle, but 
had some questions. It wanted to know if Mr M had approached the installer of the panels 
about the repairs, and why he had not contacted Shawbrook at the time. It also asked if 
there was better evidence of the work which had been carried out.
The answers were that the installer had referred Mr M to its sub-contractor, which had 
carried out the repairs. The evidence already provided was the only evidence of what had 
been done. Mr M had not known he had the right to pursue Shawbrook under the Act at the 
time. I passed on this information to Shawbrook, which has not contested it.
I accept those answers, and I am satisfied by the evidence I have seen that the repairs 
described in the receipts were completed and that Mr M paid for them. So there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
Mr M £1,073.41, plus simple interest on that sum at the rate of 8% a year from 2 November 
2020 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman