DRN-3306607
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to stop paying his claim.
What happened
Mr B had income protection insurance with Unum. He submitted a claim in 2015 owing to
poor mental health and was diagnosed as having a depressive disorder. His claim was
accepted and he was receiving regular payments. In July 2018 Mr B began working for a
new company, set up by him and his wife, and so Unum switched paying his claim in full to
proportionate benefit as he was able to work some of his contracted hours. 
Mr B said that he was still under the care of his GP, psychiatrist and consultant psychiatrist 
to slowly increase his tolerance to full time work, whilst still managing his mental health 
problems, when Unum suddenly said, in January 2020, that itd no longer continue to pay 
him any benefit. 
Mr B said that decision was unfair because he was still unable to cope with full time work 
and so hed like Unum to reconsider its position.
Unum said it based its decision on the available medical evidence, in particular, that Mr B
had improved to such a degree that he was no longer incapacitated and therefore well
enough to return to full time work. Unum has continued to maintain its position, despite
receiving letters from Mr Bs medical team disputing this. It also said that it paid Mr B a
years worth of benefit, until January 2021, in anticipation that he wouldnt be ready to return
to work full time.
Our investigator said that Unum had acted fairly. He said Unum was entitled
to rely on the medical evidence at the time in order to make that decision. He acknowledged
there were signs of improvement with Mr Bs recovery and that he was already working 30
hours per week, without experiencing too many problems, and so he felt that Unums
perception of Mr Bs incapacity coming to an end was fair.
Mr B disagreed. He said that the decision it made was wholly unfair because he was still
suffering with the symptoms of his mental health condition. He also said that Unum failed to
discuss this with any of the professionals responsible for his care. Mr B highlighted that his
treating psychiatrist offered to discuss his condition and Unums decision with Unum but it
declined.
Mr B said that although hed increased his hours to 30 per week, this was still in its infancy
and he was finding it difficult to increase this at the time. Mr B highlighted that he was
contracted for 45 hours per week and so the decision to end his claim before he was working
full time was premature. He said that hed continued to find full time work difficult and that his
health had relapsed after the claim had been stopped. Mr B also said that because Unum
handled things badly, his mental health was directly affected. He wanted his claim 
reinstated. 
I carefully considered Mr Bs complaint and decided to provisionally uphold it. I disagreed 
with the outcome reached by our investigator and explained why. In summary, I said that 
Unum had unfairly stopped his claim because there wasnt enough persuasive medical 
evidence to show that Mr B was no longer incapacitated. I noticed there was no independent 
medical examination to determine his functional capacity. I said that because Mr Bs treating 
specialists continued to say that he was too unwell to work full time and so Unums decision 
to stop his claim and pay him a years worth of benefit was premature and ultimately unfair. 
To put things right, I said that Unum should reinstate Mr Bs claim from where it ended in 
January 2021. I also recommended it pay 8% simple interest on that amount and pay him 
£500 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. I invited both parties 
to comment on my provisional findings. Unum had nothing further to add. But Mr B, in 
summary, said;
His claim should be reinstated from February 2020;
Unum should return some of the premiums it took from Mr Bs employer owing to its 
decision to stop paying the claim and 
He brought his complaint through a third party and would like those costs considered. 
Ill now make a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Unum had no further arguments for me to consider, Ive decided to implement the 
findings made in my provisional decision (a copy of which is available upon request). I think 
Unum stopped Mr Bs claim prematurely and unfairly because it didnt follow the correct 
process to do so. As explained in my provisional decision, Id have expected Unum to 
complete an independent functional capacity examination to determine Mr Bs capability to 
work full time. 
Unum, instead, conducted a high-level desktop assessment, which I didnt find persuasive 
enough to warrant the action it took here. This resulted in an unfair decision to stop Mr Bs 
claim. I say that because the results of Unums assessment were in complete contradiction 
to the diagnoses and recommendations of those specialists responsible for Mr Bs care and 
treatment. 
Mr B is correct in saying that the claim should be reinstated from the February 2020 as it 
was stopped the month before. But I should also note Unum paid him a years worth of 
benefit in anticipation he might not be able to return to full time work during 2020. And so, 
that must be fairly considered when Unum comes to reinstating Mr Bs claim. There will need 
to be dialogue between Mr B and Unum in order to fully understand Mr Bs mental health 
journey and the impact Unums decision had when it decided to stop his claim. I say that 
because Im aware its decision negatively impacted Mr Bs health and that he later became 
fully incapacitated and unable to work as a result. Unum will need to consider this when 
reinstating the claim and the impact this will likely have on the benefit payable to Mr B. 
I wont be asking Unum to return any premiums paid because the policy will be reinstated 
and so payments would and should have always been paid. Further, thats not a complaint 
that can be brought by Mr B as this is a group policy whereby his employer is effectively the 
policy holder. Mr B is a beneficiary of the policy, which is why hes able to complain about 
Unums decision to stop paying. But any complaints about the policy premiums would have 
to be brought by his employer.I also wont be making any award for costs associated with bringing this complaint. Im 
aware that Mr B chose to bring his complaint through a third party and that hes incurred 
costs in doing so. But this was ultimately his choice. The ombudsman is free to consumers 
and Ive not seen any evidence that persuasively demonstrates that Mr B was unable to do 
this without support.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained in my 
provisional and final decision. Unum limited must now;
Reinstate Mr Bs claim from February 2020 as it was unfairly stopped;
Pay Mr B any outstanding benefit with 8% simple interest and
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman