DRN-3771250
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) dealt with four trades he made 
on his account.
What happened
The first trade that Mr O complained about was in 2008 but we decided that the complaint 
wasnt within our jurisdiction, as it had been made too late. Of the other three trades, two of 
these took place in February 2011 and the third in March 2020. 
The first trade was a market order for purchase of shares in Fannie May (FNMA) Mr O made 
on 7 February 2020 which in simple terms Mr O thinks was filled at a price higher than the 
shares were trading at. The second trade was a trailing stop sale order for FNMA on the 8 
February 2020, which he thinks should not have been executed when it was as the price had 
increased after he placed the order. The third trade was a short position in FNMA that was 
closed by IBUK due to a margin breach on 4 March 2020 which he thinks should have been 
dealt with differently so that the whole position wasnt closed.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and in short made the following key 
findings:
For the trade on 7 February 2011 Mr O had placed a limit order of $0.750 for 
purchase of 6000 FNMA shares but then modified the order to a market order and 
the order was executed properly at a higher market price.
For the order of 8 February 2011 Mr O had placed a trailing stop sale order at 
$0.8940 for FNMA but the order included an instruction that if an order at a price of 
$0.894 or lower goes out an order to sell 10,000 FNMA shares at a limit price of 
$0.86 per share should be entered and that instruction was followed. 
On 4 March 2020 IBUK properly liquidated Mr Os positions due to margin breach in 
accordance with its terms and conditions. One of his positions was a short position 
for 700 FNMA shares, which in effect is a loan from IBUKt. Because the margin 
account was below $2,000 IBUK isnt allowed to hold short stock so this had to be 
closed by purchase of 700 FNMA shares.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He made the following key points:
There is no dispute that the figures he provided as to the prices for the 7 February 
2011 trade are correct and he is shocked that that IBUK referred to the prices it 
displayed as being indicative of the prices available in the market.
The prices it showed should only have been actual prices of purchase orders and 
sale orders showing the number of shares available for purchase or sale at the actual 
price for both sales and orders.
There is no dispute as to the trailing stop order price of $0.8940 for the sale order on 
8 February 2011 and as the market price moved upwards after he placed the order 
so the shares should not have been sold at $0.87.
The margin close out of 4 March 2020 only arose because of the losses incurred 
previously from IBs wrongdoing in 2008 and 2011 and any finding in his favour in 
respect of those earlier events should lead to upholding this complaint as well.
It has been overlooked that IB kept referring to US SEC rules and guidance in 
correspondence and only later informed him his account was regulated in the UK.
The market price of the shares on 4 March 2020 fell significantly immediately after 
his shareholding was liquidated meaning he lost a potential large gain and he is still 
sceptical about the timing of the liquidation.
The investigator responded to Mr O and in summary made the following points:
The IB Notice of Execution and Clearing Agreement (the customer agreement) 
makes it clear that it doesnt guarantee a customer order will be executed at the best 
posted price.
She doesnt agree that she didnt address the relevant issues in relation to the events 
of 8 February 2011 and 4 March 2020.
Mr O then provided a further response in which he said that the part of the customer 
agreement the investigator had quoted from was to do with where there was a high volume 
of trades and/or high volatility, neither of which applied on 7 February 2011. 
He said that In his case the shares were traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board 
(OTCBB) and in a press release on 7 July 2010 it was stated that this was a regulated 
quotation service that electronically transmits real-time quotes, price, and volume information 
in over the counter securities. In his case there were relatively low volume of trades at the 
time and his order went through relatively quickly with no change of price on the system until 
several minutes after his trade went through. As such the price should have been at the 
market price shown on the IBUK system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as to IBUK having 
done nothing wrong in respect of the three trades that I am considering in my review of his 
complaint. 
However, before I set out my findings on those trades I think it appropriate to clarify a couple 
of points about our role, given some of the comments made by Mr O.
He has said that his complaint isnt about compensation for the specific issues referred to 
but is significantly more serious than that and is evidenced by incorrect prices being applied 
to trades and automated transactions going back to 2008 which resulted in large losses to 
him. 
He has said that either the IBUK automated real time system has serious flaws affecting all 
account holder - in which case he says the system should be suspended pending a review - 
or there was interference specifically with trades on his account - which he says would be a criminal offence. 
We are not the regulator  this is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as identified on 
IBUKs website - but an alternative dispute resolution service. As such my role is to consider 
the three trades Mr O has complained about and come to a fair and reasonable decision on 
his complaint. In doing so my findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more 
likely than not  based on the information available to me and taking account of the law, 
regulation, and good industry practice, where relevant. 
If I find IBUK did anything wrong in respect of any of the three trades Mr O has complained 
about I will consider what, if any, redress is payable. But I have no power to direct that it 
suspend its system and carry out a review and it is not for me to determine whether a 
criminal offence has been committed. These wider issues that Mr O has referred to should 
be directed at those bodies who have responsibility for such matters 
Mr O has suggested he was misled as to who the regulatory body was in 2011. I appreciate 
that he will have been frustrated that he wrote to IBLLC several times between 2011 and 
2014 and to the US Securities and Exchange Commission between 2013 and 2014 without 
getting any response.
However, I dont think this is something I can make any findings on given the lack of 
evidence about him being misled. The only evidence about this is what Mr O has said about 
being told who the regulator was in a telephone call in 2011. IBUK say they have no record 
of any such conversation and point out that there is no reference in any webchat to this. 
In any event this doesnt have any bearing on whether, or not, IBUK did anything wrong in 
relation to the three trades I am considering in this compliant.
Mr O says that in 2020 Mr O says he asked three times who the regulator was before IBUK 
confirmed it was the FCA. I dont know why IBUK didnt provide the information the first time 
around but Mr O was given the information five days after making his first request. And again 
I dont think this is something I need to comment further on in relation to what I am 
considering in this complaint.
Turning to the issues raised by Mr O about the three trades the subject of this complaint, my 
findings are set out below.
7 February 2011 trade 
Mr O placed a buy order for 6000 shares in Fannie Mae (FNMA) which traded on the over 
the counter market and quoted on the OTCBB. The order was initially a limit order at a price 
pf $0.739 but then changed by Mr O to a market order. He said this was executed by IBUK 
at a price of $0.786 per share, although this is the average price as from the information 
IBUK has provided 4000 shares were sold at $0.779 and 2000 at $0.799.
Mr O complaint is that the shares were offering at or around $0.750 per share at the time, so 
he believes he paid more than he should have done. I am mindful that the only evidence I 
have seen of the price of $0.750 Mr O refers to is his statement to IBUK to this effect some 
two days later, on 9 February 2011.
If Mr O placed his market order expecting a price of $0.750 he would have known at the time 
his order was executed by IBUK that this wasnt what the trade achieved. However, he didnt 
raise any issue on the day, only doing so two days later when he also complained about the 
second trade the subject of this complaint. This would suggest that at the time the trade was 
filled he didnt think there was anything untoward in the price. Having said that a price of $0.750 is consistent with what happened to the share price on the 
day - as from the information I have considered it opened at $0.7145, reached a high of 
$0.8340 and closed at $0.8190. So, it is quite possible that Mr O did see a price at around 
$0.750 at some point during his trading that day. 
However, even if he saw a price around $0.750 at the time he placed his market order IBUK, 
as is the case with brokers generally, doesnt guarantee customers that they will get the 
price shown. The customer agreement includes the following provision.
3. Customer Orders
B Order Routing:
i..
ii.
iii. IBUK and its Affiliates cannot and do not warrant of guarantee that every Customer order 
will be executed at the best posted price. Among other things: (a) neither IBUK nor its 
affiliates may have access to every market at which a particular product may trade; (b) other 
orders may trade ahead of Customers order and exhaust available volume at a posted 
price; (c) exchanges or market makers may fail to honor their posted prices; (d) exchanges 
may re-route customer orders out of automated execution systems for manual handling (in 
which case, execution or representation of Customers order may be substantially delayed), 
or (e) exchange rules or decisions or systems delays of failures may prevent Customers 
order from being executed , may cause delay in Customers order, or may cause Customers 
order not to be executed at the best posted price.
Mr O has suggested that this only relates to where there was a high volume of trades and/or 
high volatility. But there is nothing in the clause that suggests it only applies in such cases, 
and the terms also include the following:
20. Price quotations, Market Information, News, Research, and Internet Links:
B. IBUK, its Affiliates and Third Party Information Providers do not guarantee the accuracy, 
timeliness, or completeness of the Information. Reliance on the quotes, date and information 
is at Customers own risk
Which I think this reinforces the point that IBUK doesnt guarantee that its customers will get 
the price that is shown.
I note what Mr O has said about the relatively low number of shares being traded at the time 
and that his order went through relatively quickly and that the price on the system didnt 
change for several minutes. He says these factors are what makes him think there is 
something wrong with the system or there was interference on his account. But what he has 
referred to doesnt provide any persuasive evidence that supports his argument that IBUK 
did something wrong when executing his market order.
I come back to what I said at the outset, namely that my findings and decision are made on a 
balance of probabilities based on the evidence provided by the parties. From what I have 
seen IBUK executed the market order Mr O placed in accordance with his instruction and 
there is no persuasive evidence that it did anything wrong when it did so. 
8 February 2011 trade
The order Mr O placed was a trailing stop sale order. The information IBUK provide about 
sell trailing stop orders on its website is that this:sets the price at a fixed amount below the market price with an attached trailing amount. 
As the market price rises, the stop price rises by the trail amount but if the stock price falls, 
the stop loss price doesnt change and a market order is submitted when the stop price is 
hit.
Mr Os trade of 8 February 2011 was a trailing stop order sale for 10,000 FNMA shares 
which included an instruction that if a price of $0.894 or lower goes out, an order to sell 
10,000 FNMA shares at a limit price of £0.86 per share should be entered. 
Mr O argues that the market moved up after he placed his trade but IBUK has said that at 
the point he paced the trade the stop price was at the market price and so a trade was 
triggered very quickly. 
From the screen shot that IBUK provided it can be seen Mr O placed his order at 0.9.56.24 
hours with the stop price of $0.894 being reached straightaway at 0.9.56.25 hours. This 
triggered the execution of the order, which was filled at 0.9 56.50 hours, at a price of $0.87 
per share.  I think the screenshot supports what IBUK has said about the stop price being at 
the market price at the point Mr O placed his trade and that this resulted in his order being 
filled almost immediately. 
It may well be that the market rose after Mr O placed the trade, but I think the issue is that at 
the point he first entered the trade on his account the market price was at the stop price he 
selected, leading to his order being triggered almost instantaneously. 
As with the 7 February 2011 trade, I have seen no persuasive evidence that IBUK did 
anything wrong regarding the trade, or that there was a problem with its system. On the face 
of the available evidence it simply acted on the order he had placed.
4 March 2020 margin close out
Mr O opened a short position for 700 FNMA shares which was closed by IBUK through the 
purchase of 700 FNMA shares because of a margin breach, at the market price at that time. 
Mr O has provided no evidence that he wasnt in breach and from the information I have 
seen his account at the time had a liquid net value of $1,999.88 as against a maintenance 
margin requirement of $2,082.38. It was therefore short of the necessary margin requirement 
by $82.50. 
Mr O has provided no evidence that suggests there wasnt a margin breach and his 
argument has concentrated more on IBUKs actions before and after the breach. In the 
circumstances I am satisfied that it is more likely than not there was a margin breach on 4 
March 2020.
In terms of what it did before the breach, Mr O raised a couple of issues. He has suggested 
that it was losses from the events of 2008 and 2011 that led to the margin close out in 2020. 
I have not upheld Mr Os complaints from 2011 and we have previously decided we dont 
have jurisdiction to consider the complaint he made about what happened in 2008. In the 
circumstances there are no losses arising from anything we have found IBUK did wrong to 
be taken into account when considering what happened in 2020. 
Even if I had been satisfied that IBUK had been responsible for losses from 2011, I can see 
no basis on which I could reasonably find that these should be taken into account in relation 
to a margin close out that took place nine years later.
In his initial complaint to IBUK Mr O complained that he was given no notice in advance to enable him to transfer additional funds into his account. However, IBUK did contact him 
about his margin three times the day before the margin close out and once on the day of the 
margin close out.
In any event, the terms of the customer agreement make it clear there was no obligation on 
IBUK to contact Mr O before taking action in relation to a margin breach. The following terms 
in the customer agreement are relevant in this regard:
9 Margin. The following provisions apply to margin-enabled accounts:
A.
B: Requirement to Maintain Sufficient Margin: Customer margin Transactions are subject to 
IBUK initial margin and maintenance margin in accordance with the margin requirements 
which have been established by IBUK or the applicable exchange, whichever is greater 
(Margin Requirements). IBUKs Margin Requirements may exceed the margin required by 
any exchange or clearing house. IBUKs Margin Requirements shall be posted on the IBUK 
website. The general formulas for calculating Margin Requirements provided on the IBUK 
website are only indicative and may not accurately reflect the actual Margin Requirements in 
effect at a particular time for Customers portfolio. Customer must at all times satisfy 
whatever Margin Requirements are calculated by IBUK. Customer shall maintain, without 
notice or demand from IBUK, IBLLC or their Affiliates, a sufficient account balance at all 
times so s to continuously satisfy the applicable Margin Requirements. As set forth herein, 
Customer shall submit all payments made by Customer to satisfy Margin Requirements 
directly to IBLLC in accordance with the instructions then set forth on the IBUK website and 
then in effect.
..
E. Failure to satisfy Margin Requirements: Customer shall monitor Customers account so 
that, at all times, the account shall contain a sufficient account balance to continuously 
satisfy the Margin Requirements, without notice or demand. IBUK or its Affiliates may reject 
any Customer order if Customer does not have a sufficient account balance to satisfy the 
Margin Requirements and may delay the processing of any order while determining the 
correct margin status of Customers account. Failure by Customer to satisfy the Margin 
Requirements constitutes an Event of Default and provides IBUK the right, but not the 
obligation, to pursue all rights and remedies available to it pursuant to this Agreement, 
including the right to liquidate Customers positions.
F. IB UK Shall Not Issue Margin Calls: IBUK, IBLLC, and their Affiliates shall not have any 
obligation to notify Customer of any failure to meet the Margin Requirements in Customers 
account prior to IBUK, IBLLC or any of their Affiliates exercising any of their respective rights 
and remedies under this Agreement. Customer understands that IBUK, IBLLC, and their 
Affiliates shall not issue margin calls and that IBUK, IBLLC and their Affiliates shall not credit 
Customers account to meet intraday margin deficiencies. Customer understands that IBUK 
(through IBLLC or another IBUK Affiliate) is authorised to liquidate positions in Customers 
account in order to satisfy the Margin Requirements without prior notice to Customer.
Mr O was also provided on account opening with a document titled Disclosure of Risks of 
Margin Trading which included the following:
You should understand that pursuant to the IB Margin Agreement IB generally will not issue 
margin calls, that IB will not credit your account to meet intraday margin deficiencies, and 
that IB generally will liquidate positions in your account in order to satisfy margin 
requirements without prior notice to you and without an opportunity for you to choose the positions to be liquidated or the timing or order of liquidation.
There were other statements within the document which essentially made the same points  
namely that IBUK could act immediately without notice and that it is for IBUK to decide which 
position to sell.
So, the customer agreement and the disclosure of risks document both make clear that; 
IBUK didnt have to contact Mr O before closing his short position  although it did  and that 
it was for it to decide what position/s to close.
I note Mr O has argued that on previous occasions when he has breached the margin 
requirement the issue had been rectified by sale of a few shares to restore the margin. In 
other words, he is questioning why his short position in FNMA was closed in full. 
I dont have details of the other occasions he refers to. But even if these previous breaches 
were dealt with by IBUK without full closure of a position, as he seems to be suggest, it was 
not bound to deal with the subsequent breach in March 2020 in the same way and Mr O had 
no reasonable basis for expecting it to do so.
Mr O has also questioned why his short trade in FNMA was closed to deal with the margin 
breach. He did have another trade open on the day, but IBUK has explained that when the 
available margin falls below $2,000 it loses its margin privileges and cannot borrow cash or 
hold short stock. This is in accordance with the requirements of the Financial Industry 
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) in the US, which is responsible for the OTCCB. 
In other words, it appears IBUK could not keep Mr Os short position in FNMA open when his 
available equity was below $2,000, as was the case here. I think this more likely than not 
explains why the short trade in FNMA was closed.
In any event, regardless of the issue over IBUK holding short stock, the margin breach was 
an event of default  as stated in clause 9E of the terms as set out above and further in 
clause 25A of the terms. As such IBUK could take the actions set out in the terms of the 
customer agreement for such an event.
Those actions are set out clause 25B of the terms. They include liquidating, selling, or 
closing out any or any part of a transaction or open position in such manner it deems 
necessary - including by entry of offsetting transactions  and borrowing and/or buying any 
property required to make delivery against any sales, including short sales, effected for the 
customer. 
The terms of the customer agreement I have referred to above clearly allowed IBUK to close 
Mr Os short position in FNMA in its entirety by way of purchasing 700 FNMA shares at the 
then market price in response to the margin breach. Even if it could have dealt with the 
margin breach in a different way, it wasnt required to do so.
I acknowledge that it must have been frustrating for Mr O to have placed a short trade which 
was automatically closed out for margin when the market moved in his favour a day or so 
later. However, whist noting his scepticism about the timing, this isnt evidence that IBUK did 
anything wrong. There is nothing to suggest that his short position in FNMA wasnt properly 
closed following the margin breach in accordance with IBUKs regulatory obligations and the 
terms of the customer agreement. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out aboveUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman