DRN-4414045
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) business 
protection insurance policy for loss of rent.
Mr B is unhappy that AXA turned down this claim.
What happened
Mr B says his property was damaged by his tenant. As a result, he made a claim on his AXA 
business protection insurance policy. The claim thats the subject of this specific complaint is 
for loss of rent.
It is not for other matters Im aware Mr B has complained about, including the policy 
excesses AXA applied to other claims under the policy, or the amount AXA offered him in 
respect of a damaged piano. Those are being considered separately by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
AXA declined to cover Mr Bs loss of rent claim because they said the policy didnt cover loss 
of rent when the property was untenanted unless at the time of the incident giving rise to the 
damage, there was a signed tenancy agreement to confirm future occupation. AXA said this 
didnt apply here. They did however pay Mr B £25 for the time they took to consider his 
complaint, which they said was outside of the regulatory timescale applicable.
Unhappy, Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he was 
entitled to be paid a loss of rents claim, that AXAs loss adjuster had gotten the date of loss 
wrong, and the property wasnt habitable until the damage had been made good. 
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Mr B 
doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to determine  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say AXA will cover loss of rent and the cost of 
alternative accommodation if the property is damaged by the insured causes and events. I 
wont set those out here because they dont form any of the terms in issue between the 
parties. The term that AXA have relied on to decline Mr Bs claim is the following exclusion:
any loss when the property was untenanted unless at the time of the incident giving rise to 
the damage, there was a signed tenancy agreement to confirm future occupation, once the 
damaged part of the property is habitable and where the damage was caused by the tenant 
intentionally.
The damage took place at different times before 9 December 2020. Mr Bs tenant was due to 
leave the property in accordance with their tenancy agreement on 10 December 2020. The 
rent was paid up to date and there was no future occupation agreed with anyone else 
beyond this. I appreciate that Mr B feels that it wasnt possible for the property to be 
occupied beyond the tenant vacating, because it wasnt inhabitable, but that doesnt mean 
the policy would engage in this case. Thats because Mr B had no proven loss to protect with 
the cover. He wasnt losing out on rent because there was no agreement in place for a future 
tenancy that he might otherwise have lost out on because of the nature of the repairs 
needed. 
Mr B says that as there was a signed tenancy agreement in place when the damage was 
caused, this means the policy would engage and loss of rents were payable. I dont agree. 
The terms are clear that a signed tenancy agreement for future occupation needed to be in 
place. That cant possibly apply in this case because theres no loss of rent claim for the 
remainder of the term occupied by the existing tenant- thats because they were paid up until 
the end of their term. The applicable exclusion means that he couldnt claim for loss of rents 
because there was no signed tenancy agreement to confirm future occupation beyond the 
tenancy coming to an end, which is when Mr Bs only potential loss would arise, as he wasnt 
receiving any rent from anyone. 
Mr B is unhappy that AXAs loss adjuster referred to the wrong date of loss in relation to his 
claim. Ive thought about this, but like the investigator, I take the view that this makes no 
difference to the outcome of this complaint because the only loss date Mr B could claim from 
is when he stopped receiving rent. And because there was no signed future tenancy in place 
at that time, the policy didnt engage anyway. So, the date the loss adjuster applied is 
immaterial in the circumstances.
I know Mr B feels strongly that the property wasnt habitable after his outgoing tenant left and 
that he was trying to get tradesman and the letting agent to make the property fit for reletting. 
And from what Mr B has said, I imagine that would have been less straightforward during the 
Covid-19 pandemic, but I dont think that changes anything with regard to the cover offered 
by the policy. It makes no difference whether the property was uninhabitable if there was no 
signed agreement to confirm future occupation by a tenant. The fact that the state of the 
property might be the reason why a signed agreement for future occupation wasnt possible 
also makes no difference. The term provides for that scenario by excluding it because the 
property would always have been vacant at that time, so Mr B hasnt lost out on a 
guaranteed tenant as a result and that is what the loss of rent term was in place to cover.
Finally, from what Ive seen AXA have paid Mr B £25 for the delay in replying to his 
complaint. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. I wont be directing AXA to make 
any further awards beyond this amount. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against AXA Insurance UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman