DRN-3714499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
More Th>n (RSA) has handled a subsidence claim made under their building insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim for subsidence damage to their property when they noticed 
cracks in their kitchen wall. 
RSA dealt with the claim and arranged for rectification works to take place. However, when 
repairs were completed and Mr and Mrs B were due to move back into their property, they 
noted numerous issues with the quality of the works and also noted that the property wasnt 
yet habitable.
They complained to RSA about the incomplete works and the cleanliness of the property, 
and also said they didnt want their belongings being returned as these could be damaged 
by the ongoing work that was required. 
RSA responded to the complaint and agreed that further work was required, such as 
completing the repairs to the shower despite there being some confusion over who was 
responsible for this.
RSA also offered to pay for alternative accommodation and storage fees for a set period of 
time. It also said its contractors would arrange for the property to be cleaned. And it agreed 
that Mr and Mrs B had received a poor level of service, so it offered them £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with RSAs response to their complaint, so they referred the 
complaint to this service, saying the property still hadnt been rectified as there were still 
signs of subsidence, and several issues remained unresolved. Our investigator considered 
all the information and thought the complaint should be upheld and that RSA should pay 
further storage charges, until the property was made habitable. But she didnt agree that 
there were still signs of subsidence that RSA had to put right.
Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has 
now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the only expert evidence I have, which is the report dated May 2019 
following the initial claim for subsidence. This report refers to the large crack in the kitchen 
wall and the cause of the subsidence is said to have been clay shrinkage induced by nearby 
vegetation. The recommendations include tree management works followed by a period of 
stabilisation before repairs to the property could commence.
The report does not of course prove that work was carried out to an acceptable standard, so 
Ive also considered other evidence such as the emails from Mr and Mrs B and the 
photographs theyve sent us, showing the dust that had accumulated in the property by the 
time they moved back in. I can see that the property was not in a clean condition due to the 
dust, so I think its fair that RSA offered to have its contractors complete a further clean.
Mr and Mrs B say theyve sent us over 300 photographs and Ive tried to access these but 
was unable to see all of them. In any event, I dont think Id need to see such a large number 
of photographs in order to be satisfied that RSA acted unfairly by not taking greater care with 
Mr and Mrs Bs property and belongings. This is because Ive considered the large number 
of photographs we already have on file, and I can see that there were numerous issues with 
the quality of the rectification works. These issues include the hob and other appliances not 
being fitted, to poor quality grouting and untidy repairs.
So I agree with our investigators recommendation that RSA pay Mr and Mrs B £500 
compensation for the difficulties and upset that its handling of the claim caused. And I agree 
that RSAs offer to pay an additional cash settlement towards any further rectification work, 
subject to receipt of a VAT invoice, is fair and reasonable. I also think its fair for Mr and 
Mrs B to provide any further evidence of additional alternative accommodation costs to RSA 
so that it can consider paying these.
Mr and Mrs B say the compensation recommended by our investigator and offered by RSA 
wouldnt cover their losses and is nowhere near what is needed to put their property back in 
order. But I dont have enough evidence to satisfy me that the amount offered for rectification 
work isnt enough to make right the current problems with the property. And the other 
outgoings Mr and Mrs B have mentioned are expenses theyve incurred and not 
compensation. Compensation is for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B have 
experienced and is not designed to cover other losses. And Im satisfied based on what Mr 
and Mrs B have said, that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint based on the level of impact the poor service has had on Mr and Mrs B and 
the length of time these issues have been ongoing.
I also consider it unfair for RSA to refuse to pay the additional storage charges. From the 
photographs provided I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B were reluctant to have their 
belongings returned to the property, as it was in a state of disrepair and it was unclean. So 
Im going to require RSA to pay the additional storage charges up until the property was 
made habitable.
Im sorry to hear that this whole experience has taken a toll on Mr and Mrs Bs health and 
wellbeing, and I dont doubt that theyve experienced a significant amount of stress over the 
years due to this claim. But I have to separate the problems caused by RSA, from the 
difficulties that naturally arise when a property experiences subsidence, which in itself is a 
stressful event that can often take considerable time to deal with. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I cant say the property is still suffering from subsidence as 
there are a number of factors which can contribute to cracks reappearing over time, and this 
doesnt mean the work carried out was all inadequate. If Mr and Mrs B believe the cause of 
the subsidence hasnt been property rectified, theyd need to provide evidence of this, such 
as an independent report from an expert (rather than just a quotation for repairs) and that 
report would need to be put to RSA for its consideration. It would then be for RSA to visit the 
property on the basis of such evidence, to determine the extent of any movement and the 
need for any further rectification works.Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but at the moment, Im afraid I dont have sufficient 
evidence to require RSA to take any further action, aside from paying for the additional 
storage charges until the date the property became habitable. But as Ive mentioned, if Mr 
and Mrs B have persuasive evidence that their property is still moving, they should provide 
this to RSA in the first instance so that this can be considered. They can then come back to 
this service if theyre unhappy with the way RSA responds.
Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n must now:
Pay Mr and Mrs B 2,380 for alternative accommodation, £125 towards cleaning 
costs, and £315.91 and £63.18 towards remedial work, if it has not already done so.
Pay Mr and Mrs B for the additional storage charges they incurred up until the 
property was made habitable on 17 December 2021.
RSA must add 8% simple interest per annum on to any of the above costs incurred 
by Mr and Mrs B from the date Mr and Mrs B made payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience if it has not 
already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited trading as More Th>n to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman