DRN-2574845
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank Plc have closed their account.
S are represented by Mr Y, the director of the company. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In July 2019 Lloyds wrote to S and told them theyd 
be closing their account. The letter said that after reviewing his business account they were 
no longer able to provide S with banking services. The letter also gave two months notice of 
the closure and explained that the account would remain blocked until closed.
S complained and Lloyds maintained their decision. S believe Lloyds closure decision is 
based upon an incident where a fraudulent cheque was paid into their account. Mr Y also 
says there is a marker against his name which is causing him problems. He asked our 
service to look into the marker being placed against him. 
One of our investigators explained that personally, Mr Y wasnt an eligible complainant within 
the rules that were bound by. So his complaint about a marker against him was outside our 
jurisdiction. But he was able to bring a complaint on behalf of S about the decision to close 
their account.
For what we could consider the investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
She explained that the terms of S account allow Lloyds to close an account giving 2 months 
notice. And they arent obliged to provide a detailed reason for their decision. She didnt 
think Lloyds had acted unfairly in doing so. S disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there isnt much I can add to what our investigator has already explained.
Id like to make clear that although Mr Y is a director, he represents S who are the 
complainant here. So I cant comment on issues pertaining to Mr Y in a personal capacity. I 
can only make my findings in relation S, which, as a limited company, is a different legal 
entity to Mr Y. Lloyds didnt place any marker against S, so I wont be commenting further on 
that. 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, they must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of S account say that Lloyds can close the account by giving two 
months notice. So whilst I acknowledge S may disagree and be unhappy with this, it is still a 
decision Lloyds are entitled to take. Theres no obligation for Lloyds to disclose or explain 
the reason for their decision. 
The letter dated 10 July 2019 gave the required two months notice. So while I understand S 
frustration, having looked at the evidence, I cant say that Lloyds have done anything wrong 
when deciding to close the account. So, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Whilst Lloyds provided the correct notice period, I note that the closure of the account hasnt 
progressed whilst this complaint has been with our service. I dont think Lloyds have treated 
S unfairly by awaiting the outcome of our process or that it was unreasonable for them to 
leave the account frozen whilst this took place.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman