DRN-3761285
The complaint
Miss A complains about a fixed sum loan agreement (loan) she entered into with Specialist
Lending Limited (Duologi).
What happened
A company that I will call P offered Miss A a study/training programme that she had
showed an interest in. The programme was available as a total package, costing £6,645.60,
or as a number of individual units/elements costing, in total, £14,510.
Miss A elected to purchase the total package at a cost of £6,645.60 and signed a Training
and Consultancy Service Level Agreement in respect of the same on 13 May 2020.
As well as selling Miss A the study/training programme, P also brokered on Miss As behalf a
loan with Duologi. The loan was signed by Miss A on 4 May 2020.
Under the terms of the loan, everything else being equal, Miss A agreed to pay an advance
payment (deposit) of £750.00, one monthly payment of £149.59 and then 59 monthly
payments of £149.54  making a total repayable of £9,722.45 at an APR of 19.5%.
In September 2020 Miss A contacted P to say she wished to withdraw from the course.
In March 2021 Miss A ceased making payments to her loan having made the following
payments to Duologi:
Advance payment of £750.00
1 monthly payment of £149.59 June 2020
8 monthly payments of £149.54 July 2020 to February 2021
In April 2021 Miss A contacted P asking for the course to be cancelled and for a refund of
the monthly payments she had made since she had ceased studying. P responded to say it
had started the process of closing her account and its finance department would be in touch
regarding any financial matters.
In May 2021 Miss A contacted P to say she hadnt heard from its finance department and
she was being pursued by Duologi for arrears on her loan. P responded to say she should
hopefully hear from its finance department shortly.
In June 2021 Miss A contacted P on two further occasions about securing a refund.
In September 2021 Miss A complained to Duologi. Duologi responded (under cover of a final
response letter (FRL) dated 21 September 2021) to say that it didnt believe it had done
anything wrong and that it expected the loan to be repaid in full.
In October 2021, and unhappy with Duologis FRL, Miss A complained to our service. She
said that she purchased the study/training programme on the understanding that she could
cancel at any time with nothing further being payable under the loan.
In May 2022 Miss A paid Duologi 1 monthly payment of £149.54. Its also my understanding
that since making this payment Miss A has made a number of other payments to Duologi.
Miss As compliant was considered by one of our investigators. He upheld it and outlined
what Duologi should do to fairly compensate Miss A. In summary the investigator said
Duologi should:
cancel Miss As loan agreement with nothing further to pay
refund all payments made by Miss A since October 2020  together with interest
Miss A accepted the investigators findings, but Duologi didnt.
The investigator considered Duologis reasons for disagreeing with his findings, but he
wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Therefore, Miss As complaint was passed to me for
review and decision.
In August 2022 I issued a (first) provisional decision. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties
have provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The
purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In the particular circumstances of this case Im satisfied that P was acting for both
itself (as the study/training programme provider) and Duologi (as the loan provider).
Duologi has responsibilities to Miss A under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. There
are two sections of the Act which might provide Miss A with protection  section 56
and section 75. Section 56 has the effect of making P, who sold the loan, the agent
of Duologi during the negotiations leading up to Miss A entering into it. This means
Duologi can be held responsible for things which were said during the sales process.
Section 75 makes Duologi responsible for any breach of contract or
misrepresentation made in relation to the purchase of the study/training programme.
Duologi relies on the documents signed by Miss A and says she wouldve been
aware that she was entering into a loan that couldnt be cancelled, at least at the
point in time she looked to do so. But this isnt the only issue here. Its important to
look at what happened before the various documents were signed, and in particular,
to look at what Miss A was told. Unfortunately, we dont have a recording of what was
discussed between Miss A and P before she committed to the study/training
programme and the loan. However, we do have submissions from Miss A, Duologi
and P as to what they understand was discussed.Now I havent discounted entirely what Duologi and P says was discussed with
Miss A before she decided to commit to both the study/training programme and the
loan. But, I find Miss As submission as to what was discussed with her to be more
persuasive and plausible.
Miss A has been consistent in her submissions to our service that she was advised
by P, before committing to the study/training programme and the loan, that she could
cancel at any time with nothing further to pay. And in support of her submissions in
this respect she has provided our service with a communication sent to her on
4 May 2020 by P which says:
At no point will you be locked into the programme. You can cancel your programme
at anytime within the programme. You only need to give 14days before the next
services and the programme will be cancelled and charge for only the services you
have already taken where applicable.
Due to high demand in the programme and our programmed dates, we will need the
necessary document signed so we can secure the dates and offer already given. If
you have any further clarifications with the programme, please feel free to reach out
to me so I can provide further guidance where needed. [sic]
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I need to be satisfied that P
made an untrue statement of fact, which induced Miss A to enter into the loan. And
taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that P told Miss A that
she could cancel at any time with nothing further to pay. Because this wasnt true, Im
satisfied that this was a misrepresentation, for which Duologi must accept
responsibility. I would also add that Im satisfied that had there been no
misrepresentation on the part of P Miss A wouldnt have committed to the
study/training programme or the loan.
Given what I say above, what I now need to decide is what Duologi should have to
do to fairly and reasonably compensate Miss A.
Ive considered whether Miss A should have to pay for the cost of the units she
completed, whether at a discounted or undiscounted cost. But in my view this
wouldnt provide a fair and reasonable outcome. In my view Miss A was led to
believe that regardless of the underlying costs of the units she might complete, she
wouldnt be liable (to Duologi) for anything other than what she had paid it under the
loan up to the point in time she cancelled the study/training programme (assuming no
arrears). And for the avoidance of doubt Im satisfied that the cancelation date should
be taken as being September 2020, not a later date. I say this because it was in
September 2020 that Miss A, in my view, tried to cancel the study/training
programme with P.
Im also of the view that Duologis refusal to accept cancelation of the loan (with
nothing further to pay), its persistence in pursuing for payment and its
communications more generally caused Miss A both distress and inconvenience for
which she should be fairly and reasonably compensated for. And taking everything
into account, I find £300 represents an appropriate sum in this respect.
Miss A responded to say she accepted my provisional findings.Duologi responded to say that it didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary it said:
I had included certain wording in my provisional findings so as to tick the box and to
avoid having to provide any important counter arguments to its submissions and
defence of Miss As complaint
there is no evidence in my provisional findings to demonstrate I had considered
anything [it had] said
I had taken Miss As unsubstantiated claim over the hard evidence [it had]
provided
my investigation hadnt been handled impartially
it was unfair for me to have accepted Miss As unsupported version of events over
the signed documentation it had provided
it viewed my award of £300 (for distress and inconvenience) as punitive damages
which Ive no power to award
this isnt the first time our service has believe[d] a customers version of events over
contracts and agreements [which raises the question] as to why [it has] customers
sign agreements in the first place
Duologi also provided a response it had received from P to my provisional findings. In
summary P said:
the position (with the study/training programme and the loan) hadnt been
misrepresented by it
the pre-sale email correspondence between it and Miss A clearly demonstrates
Miss A understood the nature, terms and conditions of the loan
Miss A could and should have understood that the loan term would always exceed
the proposed study/training programme term by more than four years, the standard
study/training programme term being eight months
Miss A was aware, or should have been aware, that she was liable to pay for all
services provided and these services were always going to be provided more quickly
than she was paying for them under the loan
Miss A was never advised that the loan repayments would keep pace with the cost of
the services being provided to her
no one would ever deduce that £1,192 (£149 a month for eight months) would pay for
an entire study/training programme costing £14,510 undiscounted, or £6,645.60
discounted
the email it sent Miss A on 4 May 2020 was in respect of her rights to cancel the
study/training programme not the loan
Miss A was aware that if she was to cancel the study/training programme early she
would be obliged to pay it something for services provided to date (as detailed in
section 12 of the study/training programme contract)
Miss A was aware that if she was to cancel more than 60 days of starting the first
scheduled service she would be liable to pay 100% of the total service fee (as
detailed in section 12.4 of the study/training programme)
Miss A asked to withdraw from the study/training programme after attending seven
out of eight courses
it has incurred time and resources providing what it has to Miss A and for this it
should be fairly paid
As well as providing the above response, P also provided Duologi with a substantial amount
of documentation it said it would like me to take into account.In October 2022 I issued a (second) provisional decision. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Im still of the view that this complaint should be upheld,
but Im now minded to make a different award against Duologi in favour of Miss A.
Notwithstanding what Duologi has said in response to my provisional findings, Im again not
going to address every point raised, rather Im again going to focus on what I think are the
central issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
In my (first) provisional decision I found, on the balance of probabilities, that Miss A was 
advised she could cancel the study/training programme at any time and would be under no 
obligation to pay (assuming no arrears) anything further under the loan.
Now having considered Duologis response to my provisional findings Im still of the view, on
the balance of probabilities, that Miss A was misled about what her (loan) obligations would
be if she cancelled the study/programme early. And I remain of this view given Miss As
consistent and plausible recollection of events together with Ps communication dated
4 May 2020.
But on reflection Im now of the view that Miss A, on the balance of probabilities, was led to
believe that she could cancel the study/programme early and would be required to pay only
for the services she had started (and completed). Ive come to this view because I accept
that this is an equally reasonable interpretation of Ps communication dated 4 May 2020 and
given that Miss A was always going to get the services P had undertaken to provide
substantially sooner than she was paying for those services under her loan repayment
schedule  the study/training programme being scheduled to run for 6 to 8 months and the
loan being scheduled to run for 60 months.
Given what I say above, I will now go on to consider what, if anything, Duologi should have
to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Miss A.
Duologi, amongst other things, says it should be able to rely on section 12 of the
study/training programme contract, with section 12.4 being particularly relevant in this case.
Section 12 of the study/training programme contract states:
12. Termination
12.1 This agreement shall terminate in the following circumstances, subject to whichever
happens first:
12.1.1 This agreement shall terminate immediately after P has completed the
Services in compliance with Clause 2; or
12.1.2 Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by giving written notice
to the other party if:
12.1.2.1 The Client wishes to terminate the Services at their own
discretion; or12.1.1.2 The Client fails to make payments by the due dates for more
than 3 times or has defaulted on any payment for more than 60
days; or
12.1.1.3 The other party commits a material breach of any term of this
Agreement which breach is irremediable or (if such breach is
remediable) fails to remedy that breach within a period of 30
days after being notified in writing to do so; or
12.1.1.4 The other party repeatedly breaches any of the terms of this
Agreement in such manner as to reasonably justify the opinion
that its conduct is inconsistent with it having the intention or
ability to give effect to the terms of this Agreement; or
12.1.1.5 The other party is the subject of a bankruptcy petition or order;
or
12.1.1.6 The other party (being an individual) dies or, by reason of
illness or incapacity (whether mental or physical), is incapable
of managing his or her on affairs or becomes a patient under
any mental health legislation; or
12.1.1.7 The other party (being a company) suspends or ceases, or
threatens to suspend or cease, carrying on all or a substantial
part of its business.
12.2 If the clients termination notice is received no later than 14 days prior to
commencement of the first scheduled Service:
12.2.1 Within 30 days of their enrolment completion: The Client shall incur no charge
and be refunded any payments made to P (except for the registration fee).
12.2.2 Later than 30 days of their enrolment completion: The Client shall pay £250 
administration fee and be refunded the balance of any payments made 
(except for the registration fee).
12.3 If the Clients termination notice is received less than 14 days prior to
commencement of the first scheduled Service, or within 60 days after starting the first
scheduled Service, the Client agrees to pay:
12.3.1 The undiscounted price for each Service started by the Client; and £250
administration fee for each of such Services.
12.3.2 The undiscounted price for any of the following scheduled Service that is
cancelled less than 14 days prior to its commencement; and £250 
administration fee for that Service.
12.4 If the Clients termination notice is received later than 60 days of starting the first
scheduled Service:
12.4.1 The Client shall be liable to pay 100% of the total Service Fee as set out in
the Enrolment Form.Now I dont dispute that a strict application of 12.4 allows P, and therefore Duologi, to hold 
Miss A liable for the sum of £6,645.60 and on the assumption Miss A had completed 
services 1.1 to 1.6 as Duologi submits, Miss A had the benefit of services (at an 
undiscounted cost) of £8,436.
But as I said in my provisional decision its important to look at what happened before the
various documents (Duologi are looking to rely on) were signed, and in particular, to look at
what Miss A was told.
As I say above Im satisfied that Miss A was told, or led to believe, that she could cancel the
study/training programme early and if she did so she would only be required to pay for the
services provided up to the date of cancelation.
Now having considered both parties submissions very carefully Im not persuaded that
Miss A ever had section 12 of the study/training programme contract explained to her, at
least in terms she could understand. So, in the particular circumstances of this case,
although I think Miss A should have to pay for the services she received from P, in my view
this should be at the discounted cost.
As I say above, Duologi says Miss A completed services 1.1 to 1.6 at an undiscounted cost
of £8,436.00. Now based on a total undiscounted cost of £14,510.00, a discounted package
cost of £6,645.60 represents a 54.2% discount on the undiscounted cost.
And applying this 54.2% discount against the sum of £8,436.00 gives a discounted cost of
these services of £3,863.69, a (capital) sum that in my view Miss A should have to fairly pay
for the services she received from P.
Miss A responded to my provisional findings. In the main she reiterated what had she had 
previously said and submitted, which was that both the study/training programme and the 
loan had been misrepresented to her. She also said that:
She sent an email to P on 17 July 2020 asking to stop the course and future 
payments, but P persuaded her to continue.
She was never given a breakdown of the package cost of £6,645.60.
She didnt understand the possible consequences of the study/training programme 
and loan having different terms, particularly in the event she exercised her rights to 
withdraw from the study/training programme early.
She doesnt understand Ps point that she attended seven out of eight courses. She 
understood the study/training programme was made up of three parts with the first 
part consisting of six courses, then assignments.Duologi responded to my provisional decision with a counter proposal (from P) to settle 
matters.
In summary P said:
Miss A had completed services 1.1 to 1.6 at an undiscounted cost of £8,536
Miss A completed three assignments at an undiscounted cost of £600 (£200 per 
assignment)
Miss A, in essence, received services totalling £9,136 undiscounted (£8,536 plus 
£600)
The discount applied to Miss As package was 54.2%
Its prepared, as a gesture of goodwill, to discount the cost of services provided to 
Miss A by 50%, bringing the sum payable by her down to £4,568 (£9,136 x 50%) 
And on this basis it was prepared for:
Duologi to credit Miss As loan the sum of £1,327.60 (representing £6,645.60 less 
£4,568 less £750) backdated to 14 days after the date of Miss As request in 
September 2020 to withdraw from the course.
Duologi to treat the sum of £1,327.60 as a partial settlement of the loan so that 
Miss A can benefit from an appropriate interest adjustment
Duologi to provide Miss A with an updated statement reflecting the loan status after 
the above backdated credit has been applied.
Duologi to ensure any information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect 
of the loan accurately reflects the position after the above backdated credit has been 
applied to it
Duologi as much as possible to treat Miss A if she is in financial difficulties, with 
patience and forbearance with regards to payments she might still be required to 
make under the loan
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both parties for their respective responses to my (second) provisional 
findings. And having considered these responses I can confirm that Im not persuaded to 
change those findings and I now confirm them as final. But for the sake of completeness I 
would like to make the following comments:
in respect of Miss As response to my (second) provisional findings
I accept that Miss A asked to cancel the study/training programme (and her 
payments) in July 2020. But given that she didnt actually cancel the study/training 
programme in July 2020 Im not persuaded this is material to my findings.
I accept that Miss A was never given a breakdown of the package cost of £6,645.60. 
But Ive seen nothing that prevented Miss A for asking for a breakdown or anything 
that would lead me to conclude that the lack of a breakdown was, in itself, material to 
her decision to embark on the study/training programme and to enter into the loan.Its because no breakdown of the package cost of £6,645.60 has been provided to 
Miss A, or our service, that I made the assumptions that I did in my provisional 
decision in concluding what Duologi should do, to fairly and reasonably compensate 
Miss A.
Im not persuaded by Miss As submission that she didnt understand the possible 
consequences of the study/training programme and loan having different terms, 
particularly in the event she exercised her rights to withdraw from the study/training 
programme early. I say this in part because based on what Miss A has said and 
submitted, its my understanding she is saying she understood she could have left 
the study/training programme after say 12 months (with 95% of it completed) and 
after she had paid (under the loan) 20% of the cost of that study/training programme. 
And I simply dont find this plausible.
I can confirm that Im satisfied that the study/training programme was made up of 
three parts, but each part was further broken down into sub-parts. And part one was 
broken down into 7 sub-parts, six of which she completed.
in respect of Ps response (on behalf of Duologi) to my (second) provisional findings
Im satisfied that the undiscounted cost of services 1.1 to 1.6 completed by Miss A 
was £8,436 and not £8,536 (£1,782, £1,782, £1,188, £1,188, £1,188, £1,308).
I accept that Miss A may have completed three assignments at an undiscounted cost 
of £600. But taking everything into account, including the undiscounted cost schedule 
provided by P making (in my view) reference to a single cost in this respect of £200   
rather than multiples of £200  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Miss A to any cost in this respect, discounted or undiscounted.
Given what I say above, the total undiscounted cost of services received by Miss A 
should be treated as being £8,436.
I remain of the view that discounting the above sum by 54.2% represents a fair and 
reasonable thing to do in the particular circumstances of this case. Therefore, I see 
no reason to change my view that the sum of £8,436 should be discounted to 
£3,863.69.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi 
must:
credit Miss As loan the sum of £2,031.91 (£6,645.60 less £3,863.69 less £750)
backdated to 14 days after the date of Miss As request in September 2020 to
withdraw from the study/training programme.
this credit must be treated as a partial settlement of the loan so that Miss A can
benefit from an appropriate interest adjustment
provide Miss A with an updated statement reflecting the loan status after the above
backdated credit has been applied
ensure any information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect of the loan
accurately reflects the position after the above backdated credit has been applied to
it
treat Miss A, if she is in financial difficulties, with patience and forbearance with
regards to payments she might still be required to make under the loanUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman