DRN-3345379
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited responded to his claim made 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He is also unhappy that they havent 
accepted his cancellation request.
What happened
Mr B entered into a contract for the supply and installation of a boiler with a company Ill call 
B in February 2020. To finance this, Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni 
Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni). 
Mr B says the boiler was poorly installed which caused a significant leak to the property and 
damaged the underfloor heating. Mr B contacted B and Omni as he wanted to cancel the 
contract with B and his finance agreement. However, this wasnt actioned. 
B arranged for an engineer to inspect the boiler on 26 February 2020. The engineer noted 
that the flue was leaking to the inside boiler which would cause major damage if left. He 
recommended that the installer should be contacted to repair the fault. A second engineer 
then inspected the boiler on 11 March 2020 and noted that the boiler was leaking from the 
filling key which he attributed to the key not being fitted and a nut being slightly loose. The 
engineer carried out the necessary repair work. 
Mr B contacted B initially about the installation of the boiler and then subsequently to Omni. 
Omni didnt uphold Mr Bs claim. They said that Mr B hadnt provided sufficient evidence to 
show that the leak was caused by the installation of the boiler or that this caused damage to 
the underfloor heating. They also said that Mr Bs request to cancel his finance agreement 
wasnt accepted as this was received after the boiler was installed.
Omni then sent a separate letter to Mr B explaining that they wouldnt be amending his credit 
file because he hadnt made any payments towards his finance agreement. 
Mr B complained to Omni about the outcome of his claim. Omni replied quoting Bs response 
to Mr Bs complaint to them which essentially set out that they felt the leak reported by Mr B 
wasnt consistent with a leak from a new boiler. And that Mr B hadnt provided evidence of 
damage to the underfloor heating or any connection between that and the installation of the 
boiler. Omni then said that Mr Bs claim didnt meet the requirements for a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) because the required debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship wasnt in place. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold this. She said, in 
summary, that although Mr B was able to make a Section 75 claim, she didnt think the 
installation of the boiler had caused the leak and damaged the underfloor heating. And she 
said that Mr B wasnt entitled to cancel the agreement because he had attempted to do so 
after the boiler had been installed. 
Mr B didnt agree and mentioned that he would be happy to settle the finance agreement for 
a reduced sum but only on the basis that his credit file wouldnt be adversely affected. 
As Mr Bs complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B used a fixed sum loan from Omni to pay for the supply and installation of the boiler 
which means that Section 75 is relevant to this case. Section 75 allows Mr B in certain 
circumstances to hold Omni responsible for misrepresentation or breach of contract in 
respect of goods or services bought using the credit given to him by Omni. There are certain 
technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be valid. One of those is for a 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement to be in place between the parties for the 
transaction. 
Omni said to Mr B that no DCS arrangement was in place because he was no longer 
residing in the property where the boiler was installed and was no longer the beneficiary of 
the goods. However, I do not agree with this. Mr B took out the credit agreement, so he is 
the debtor, while the supplier for the purposes of the transaction is B who received the 
payment for the goods and services. Mr B clearly contracted with B for the provision of those 
goods and services as shown by the invoice B gave him for this. The fact that Mr B no longer 
resides at the property where the boiler was supplied and installed is irrelevant. So, I am 
satisfied that the necessary DCS chain was in place and that this affords Mr B rights under 
Section 75 as all other necessary criteria have also been met.
Turning now to the merits of Mr Bs complaint, there are two main issues as I see it. The first 
is about the installation of the boiler and Mr Bs contention that this caused a major leak and 
damage to the property. And the other issue is whether Mr B cancelled the agreement.
Boiler installation
Mr B has said that engineers looked at the installation on three to four occasions. I have 
though only seen documentary evidence of two visits which I have referred to in the 
preceding section of this decision. So, I have relied on that when considering whether there 
was a breach of contract on the part of B, for which Omni would be equally liable.
The first engineer noted that the flue was leaking to the inside boiler. He didnt though 
comment on whether this was caused by poor installation of the boiler by B or whether it was 
an issue caused by problems with the flue. I note that the engineer said that the installer of 
the boiler should be contacted so its possible he attributed the problem to how it was 
installed. Its also though possible that the engineer recommended this as it was more 
practical for the installer to repair the fault. Because of this, I havent been sufficiently 
persuaded that the issue happened because of poor installation.The second engineer noted a different problem a couple of weeks later, in that a key hadnt 
been fitted correctly and that a nut was loose. This wasnt the same fault as reported by the 
first engineer. So, its possible that this happened because the initial repair hadnt been 
successful or because the boiler wasnt installed correctly. I would have thought though that 
the first engineer would have noticed this if the latter was true. So, I cant be satisfied that 
the issues identified by the second engineer resulted from poor installation of the boiler. If 
this was caused by the initial repair, then I cant hold Omni liable for that as this would stem 
from repair work needed to correct the initial fault. And Ive already explained in the 
preceding paragraph why I cant be satisfied the initial fault was caused by poor installation.
Overall, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to make me think B breached its contract with Mr B. 
It follows that I dont find Omni was wrong to turn down Mr Bs claim under section 75. I 
would only add that even if I were to have found that Omni should have upheld Mr Bs claim,  
Mr B hasnt presented any compelling evidence that the property and in particular the 
underfloor heating was affected purely as a result of the boiler leak. 
Cancellation
Ive seen that Mr B e-mailed Omni asking for his agreement to be cancelled very shortly after 
the boiler had been installed. The contract between Mr B and B was a distance contract as it 
was negotiated and concluded exclusively online. 
This meant that Mr B was afforded rights under The Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCRs) to cancel the contract he 
entered into with B, and by extension, the finance agreement with Omni.
Omni has said that Mr Bs cancellation rights expired once B installed the boiler and has 
referred to Bs terms and conditions. Ive looked at these and note these say at clause 62 
under Cancellation:
The customer will lose the right to cancel..should the Company complete the installation 
of your new equipment within 14 days of your order being placed and the customer has 
requested that the Company perform services within this 14-day period as it will be deemed 
that the Company has been engaged to carry out urgent maintenance or repairs at the 
customers household. 
Ive thought about this clause and have also considered how the CCRs apply to the contract 
between Mr B and B and how this affects his right to cancel. However, I dont intend to go 
into any detail about this. I say this because I dont see any pragmatic way in which Mr Bs 
wish to cancel the agreement could now be actioned even if I agreed that he did invoke his 
cancellation rights.
The effect of cancelling the contract would be, amongst other things, that the goods are 
returned because the contract would be treated as never having existed. However, Mr B has 
said to our investigator that he no longer lives in the property concerned. So, it looks like 
theres no practical way for the boiler to now be uninstalled and returned. Mr B has also said 
that his contract with his landlord was such that he needed to arrange the installation of the 
boiler. It appears then that Mr B would have incurred the cost of arranging that come what 
may. I note also that it seems the boiler was eventually repaired and presumably is still 
working currently.
Mr B also would likely not have been able to claim under Section 75, had the contract been 
cancelled and treated as never having existed. Ive mentioned above that Im deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Taking the above points into account, I dont think it fair, reasonable, or 
indeed practical to treat the contract as having been cancelled by Mr B. 
For the reasons Ive given, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. So, I will not be instructing 
Omni to remove any adverse markers that have been recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
respect of the loan agreement. I will leave it for Mr B to decide whether he wishes to settle 
the agreement for the sum that he has proposed, and which Omni appears to be prepared to 
still accept. That will be something that Mr B needs to discuss with Omni. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman