DRN-3441985
The complaint
Mr Y complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr Y under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera 
Financial Services that he signed in December 2018. The cars engine failed in July 
2021 and a manufacturers dealer estimated that a replacement engine would cost 
£14,661.58. Mr Y complained to Alphera Financial Services but it said that due to the 
lapse of time between the sale of the vehicle and the issues arising, it would need 
evidence to show that they were present or developing at the point of sale. It said 
that Mr Y hadnt provided that evidence.
Mr Y wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that the car was 
of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Y, as she didnt think it was 
reasonably durable. She said that the car needs a significant repair after 83,000 
miles even though it has been regularly maintained and there is no evidence that the 
fault was due to mis-use or not being properly maintained. She recommended that 
Alphera Financial Services should: pay the cost to have the car repaired; refund Mr Y 
any monthly payments made since the beginning of July 2021 until the repair is 
completed, with interest; pay £200 for any distress or inconvenience thats been 
caused; and remove any adverse information from Mr Ys credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
Alphera Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that Mr Y was supplied with a used car in 2018 that had covered 
an estimated mileage of 50,000 miles, he didnt look after the car, and theres no 
evidence to show that:
there was a fault during the first 6 to 24 months of ownership;
Mr Y had taken suitable care of the car; or
the issues Mr Y has reported were either there or developing at the point of 
sale.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Alphera Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Y. Whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was 
supplied to Mr Y was more than four years old, had been driven for about 50,000 
miles and had a price of £20,404.58. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of 
factors.
The car was supplied to Mr Y in December 2018. The car was then more than four 
years old and the hire purchase agreement shows that its mileage on delivery to Mr 
Y was 50,000 miles. The cars engine failed in July 2021. Mr Y says he noticed a 
whining noise coming from the engine and the car broke down so it was taken to a 
manufacturers dealer where it was identified that the camshaft bearing case had 
disintegrated and been sucked into the engine and that a replacement engine was 
required.
The manufacturers dealer estimated the cost of the replacement engine as 
£14,661.58 and it recorded the cars mileage at that time as 83,108 miles. The 
engine failed more than two and a half years after the car was supplied to Mr Y and 
in that time hed been able to drive about 33,000 miles in the car.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr Y had other faults with the car. I dont consider 
it to be likely that the issue with the camshaft bearing case disintegrating was present 
or developing when the car was supplied to Mr Y. If it had been present or 
developing at that time I dont consider it to be likely that hed have been able to use 
the car for more than two and a half years and to drive more than 33,000 miles.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Y, including that it wasnt as durable 
as it was reasonable for him to expect it to be. I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Alphera Financial Services to 
pay for the car to be repaired or to take any other action in response to Mr Ys 
complaint.
I sympathise with Mr Y for the issues that hes experienced with the car and that hes 
not been able to use it since July 2021. I suggest that he contacts Alphera Financial 
Services to discuss his options under the hire purchase agreement.
Subject to any further representations by Mr Y or Alphera Financial Services, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Mr Y has responded to my 
provisional decision in detail and says, in summary, that:
he doesnt feel that the car was durable and of satisfactory quality;
hes been told that the fault is one that appears over time and hes had the car 
serviced by a manufacturers technician at every interval and would assume that a 
fault of this manner would be seen during the major servicing that took place in 
March 2020;
the cars mileage is average for its age, its mileage shouldnt be a disqualifying factor 
in upholding his complaint and he paid over £20,000 for the car and expected it to 
last more than two and a half years;
the fault hasnt arisen due to a lack of proper care of the car and a properly 
maintained premium car should last more than seven years;
hes spoken with an independent manufacturers mechanic who suggested that 
known causes of the fault are an oil pump failure, a blockage in the lubrication 
system, a leak from the oil system and excessive burning of the engine oil which 
create a build-up of carbon in the engine and then the failure of the camshaft bearing cases  but this hasnt been diagnosed as a fault on his car and, as theres no trace 
of carbon build up, the faulty component must have perished due to another reason 
and hasnt arisen due to a lack of care and that this is not a common fault for the age 
and mileage of the car with a full service history; and
he says that a more recent estimate for the work required to repair the car is 
£12,341.26.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. The car 
was almost seven years old and had been driven for more than 83,000 miles when the 
engine failed. That was more than two and a half years after the car was supplied to Mr Y 
and in that time hed been able to drive about 33,000 miles in the car. Mr Y says that hes 
taken good care of the car and I sympathise with him for the issues that hes experienced as 
a result of the engine failure. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him  and I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Alphera Financial 
Services to pay for the car to be repaired (whether those repairs are estimated to cost 
£14,661.58, £12,341.26 or another amount) or to take any other action in response to Mr Ys 
complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman