DRN-2862069
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as H, complains that that the bank unreasonably failed to 
agree a settlement with them for a period of over ten years. The partners also complain that 
the bank bullied and intimidated them and acted unfairly in relation to obtaining and retaining 
a charge over their home. 
What happened
H owned retail premises, from which a limited company, which Ill call B, operated. The 
directors of B were also the partners in H. H borrowed from RBS to finance the premises and 
B also had further borrowing, supported by guarantees from the partnership.
In 2008, B got into financial difficulties and its directors appointed administrators. RBS 
transferred B and H to its Recoveries department. At this time, H owed the bank £880,000 
and also had a guarantee liability of £200,000 in respect of Bs debts. The bank took action, 
in conjunction with the administrator, to get the Courts to grant an inhibition over the 
partners assets. 
Over the following decade, Hs partners presented various repayment proposals to the bank. 
Both sides accept that the bank was very slow to consider or reject these proposals. 
In 2014, following a complaint to the bank by H, RBS said that it remained willing to work 
with Hs partners and to allow them the opportunity to sell their properties in order to repay 
the bank. 
In February 2019, the partners wrote to the bank to say that they had taken legal advice and 
believed the debt had prescribed under Scottish law. This meant that the debt legally no 
longer existed due to the amount of time that had elapsed. RBS accepted that this was the 
case. It confirmed that it would no longer pursue the partners and it would release its 
security. 
In June 2019, the partners complained again. The bank upheld the complaint in part, as it 
accepted that it had failed to work reasonably with H to agree repayment proposals. It 
offered £20,000 in view of the extreme emotional stress it had caused the partners and 
later increased this to £50,000, which the partners accepted.
The partners referred their complaint to this service. They made the following points, in 
summary:
The bank acted unreasonably in failing to agree a settlement over a period of more 
than 10 years from 2008 to 2019. This caused the partners irrevocable harm as well 
as financial losses. 
The partners were unreasonably and unlawfully forced to provide an inhibition over 
their personal residence in 2008.
The partners were subjected to threatening and bullying behaviour by the banks 
Recoveries staff. 
The bank didnt reply to the partners 2014 complaint. 
The partners detailed their consequential financial losses as:
A £810,000 reduction in the value of the retail premises
£200,000 reduction in the value of their family home
Interest payments of £3,640 every month on unsecured debt, amounting to £466,000 
in total. Because of the banks actions in preventing the partners from selling the 
properties, they said they were unable to pay off these unsecured creditors.
Restricted earnings.
They considered a sum of £50 per day (£389,000 in total) would be closer to fair 
compensation than the £50,000 so far paid. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think the bank needed to do 
anything more. In summary, he thought that the bank had written off £1.2m, as well as 
releasing its security and paying £50,000 for the distress caused, and this was enough to 
compensate for the impact of its errors.
The partners disagreed. They made a number of points, the principal of which were:
Their situation was unique because of the duration of the banks negligence. The 
bank had breached its duty of care and then remained in breach of it for an extremely 
long time. 
The partners wanted the law to be correctly applied. The bank hadnt written off 
anything. The debt prescribed and was therefore extinguished. 
Their claim for compensation should be stand alone and the banks losses cannot 
be taken into account. 
They were told that objecting to the inhibition would be seen as failure to co-operate 
with the bank, thereby intimidating them into not defending the action. 
The banks decisions were arrogant and unreasonable. If it had acted fairly and 
reasonably, it would have accepted the partnerships 2011 repayment proposals and 
the partnership would have repaid its obligations in full.
Both properties had dropped in value significantly because of the banks delays. The 
partners had proved the loss in value on both properties. 
The pattern of the banks intimidatory and bullying behaviour began in 2008, starting 
with the bank pursuing the inhibition when it was already fully secured.
Our investigator thought that May 2011 was the point at which the banks delays 
began. But the partners disagreed. They considered that the correct start point was 
2008.  
As far as the retail premises were concerned, although the largest fall in value 
occurred in 2008, there was a steady downward trend thereafter as the premises 
moved over time from prime retail to secondary. 
They are now saddled with a second rate commercial property, on which rates 
continue to be due and which no-one had wanted to rent for ten years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the partners, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator. So Im not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why below.Was the bank at fault in the delays (and ultimate failure) to reach a settlement?
Theres no dispute here. The bank has accepted that its service was extremely poor. As both 
sides agree that the bank was at fault, theres no need for me to go into the history of the 
events in any more detail. Suffice it to say that these are highly unusual events, particularly 
in terms of the duration of the banks poor conduct. 
This only leaves the question of fair compensation, which I will consider later on in this 
decision.
Was the bank at fault in seeking the inhibition?
Ive looked carefully at the events around the inhibition. I can see that these events were 
fast-moving, in that the bank only found out in early September 2008 that B was intending to 
appoint administrators. I havent seen any evidence that the bank was aware that the 
company was in financial difficulty up until this point. The administrators were appointed in 
mid-September 2008.
Shortly after this, the bank became aware that, just before the appointment of the 
administrators, B had sold its assets to a newly created company. The bank took action to 
unwind this transfer, supported by the administrators. Because the partnership had 
guaranteed the obligations of B, the Court granted an inhibition over the partnerships assets 
too, which included the retail premises and the partners home. 
The bank had just been faced with the unwelcome news that one of its connections was 
going into administration and was trying to transfer out its assets. Whilst the majority of the 
banks exposure was to the partnership, it had still lent significant amounts to B too. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its actions were unreasonable or vindictive. I know the partners 
say this left the bank unfairly over-secured, but Im not persuaded this was unfair. I think it 
was reasonable for the bank to seek to protect its position by ensuring the partners couldnt 
sell their home without satisfying the banks charge. 
Did the bank bully and intimidate the partners? 
The partners have referred to a pattern of bullying on the part of the bank going back to 
2008. They have also mentioned two specific events. They say they were intimidated into 
not turning up at the Court of Session Hearing to oppose the warrant granting the inhibition 
and that at a meeting at the banks offices in 2011, one of the banks employee told one of 
the partners the bank would take him down and ruin him. 
As our investigator said, theres no written evidence of bullying behaviour by the banks staff. 
In the case of the inhibition, the banks discovery that B was both in difficulties and 
attempting to transfer out its assets would have been likely, in my view, to cause concern 
that the partners werent working with the bank. I dont think concern would have been 
unreasonable in those circumstances. I also think it likely that some difficult conversations 
happened at this point. I dont think it would have been wrong of the bank to express that it 
wanted to see co-operation from the partners and that it would not see making legal 
representations against the inhibition as co-operation.
In the case of the meeting at the banks offices, no transcript exists. The partner present has 
described the bullying he recalls. But the bank official concerned recalls a cordial and 
professional meeting. Im also mindful that the partners emails following the meeting dont 
refer to these events and neither did his 2014 complaint. I dont doubt the sincerity of the partners memories, but these events happened a long time ago and in the absence of 
contemporaneous evidence, I dont think I can fairly conclude that bullying occurred. 
Did the bank reply to the partners 2014 complaint?
I agree with our investigator that our service can only consider complaints about a specified 
list of activities detailed in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. Complaint handling 
isnt one of those activities. That said, in this particular case, I think the partners 2014 
complaint could reasonably be seen as a continuation of their efforts to reach a settlement to 
repay the banks lending, rather than a separate activity. 
The bank sent its first response to the complaint in October 2014. The partners replied to 
this to appeal the outcome, so this letter was clearly received, albeit the partners say not 
until 25 November. There is then a subsequent response dated 11 December 2014 on the 
banks files. The letter is correctly addressed, responds to the complaint points, refers to the 
earlier correspondence and includes referral rights to our service. 
I dont have any evidence that the December 2014 letter was actually sent. I know the 
partners say they have kept complete files and are positive they never received it. But on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that it was sent. I say this as the bank had already 
corresponded with the partners about it. So I dont think it would have been likely to then 
ignore the follow up letter. 
The complaint was handled via a complaints procedure not through the partners usual 
relationship managers. Although I accept that the banks Recoveries team had failed to deal 
with correspondence and phone calls in this case, I dont see any reason why the bank 
would have drafted the response and then deliberately not sent it. And I dont think its 
plausible that it created it retrospectively, partly as it does nothing to improve the banks 
position as far as the main charge of failing to agree a settlement is concerned. 
My conclusion is therefore that Im not going to uphold this part of the complaint. 
Fair Compensation
There are two elements to consider here. One is whether the bank needs to do more to 
reflect the consequential losses which flowed from its failure to agree a settlement with the 
partnership. The second is whether the banks personal apology and payment of £50,000 is 
enough to reflect the stress it put the partners through. Ill consider the consequential loss 
issue first.
First, I will make the point that the partners are correct in saying that the partnerships debt 
wasnt written off by the bank, it was prescribed. However, Im afraid I disagree with the 
partners that this therefore means that their losses need to be considered on a stand alone 
basis. I dont think that would be fair or reasonable in these particular circumstances. Our 
approach to compensation is that it is fair to put the partners back in as close a position as 
can be achieved to where theyd be if the bank had never made its errors. This does not 
mean disregarding the former business debts, which they would have needed to repay if 
everything had gone according to plan. 
The partners have provided valuations to show that both properties have fallen substantially 
in value, with a particularly severe fall in the value of the retail premises, which appear to 
have been very badly affected by a number of specific factors in the last decade.  
At the time of B entering administration, the premises were under offer (conditionally) at a 
price of £1.3m. I havent seen evidence that the bank was responsible for this deal unfortunately falling through. It seems that after it collapsed, the partnership concluded that it 
wasnt worth remarketing it at that time and instead sought to sell off an upstairs flat to 
achieve a small debt reduction. They later proposed selling their family home and 
downsizing, splitting the proceeds between a deposit for a new home, RBS and their 
unsecured creditors. 
It seems to me that theres considerable uncertainty about what would have happened if the 
bank had behaved in a timely manner, particularly given the difficult nature of the property 
market in the period. 
The partners are now in a position where they no longer owe RBS anything. They own a 
now unencumbered retail premises (which was valued at £500,000 in August 2019 despite 
the likely need for renovation) and also own their own home (albeit subject to a first 
mortgage held with a different bank). On the other hand, they also have (and have had for 
some time) significant levels of expensive unsecured debt, to which the banks actions have 
undoubtedly contributed. But overall, Im not persuaded that theyre in a much worse position 
than they would have been had they agreed a repayment plan and carried it out. 
I know the partners have also argued that their earnings have been restricted by not being 
able to borrow, since they had no security to offer. But I think unfortunately the fact that B 
had got into difficulties would have been likely to restrict them anyway. I also think that if 
things had gone according to plan, its more likely than not that they would have been 
repaying the bank over a period and that would still have restricted their access to other 
credit. 
Im therefore not going to direct the bank to pay them compensation for the losses theyve 
set out. 
Im satisfied that being under threat of potential insolvency for around a decade was 
extremely stressful, particularly given the poor health of one of the partners. I can see that 
the bank was aware of these health issues, and the fact that stress exacerbated them, 
throughout.
I know our investigator used the term inconvenience in describing the impact on the 
partnership. I would like to make clear that this term was in no way intended to belittle the 
partners experience. Its a term we use when were looking at the impact of an error on a 
business rather than on individuals. So our investigator was saying that the £50,000 
awarded by the bank was partly in recognition of the impact on the partnership. 
The bank itself used the phrase extreme emotional stress, which I think is a fair description 
of the ordeal it put the partners through. The bank initially offered £20,000 for this, later 
increasing it to £50,000 following a visit its Director of Recoveries made to the partners in 
order to apologise. 
I know the partners think this isnt enough to compensate them for the ordeal the bank put 
them through. But I would like to emphasise that this is an exceptionally large award for 
distress. Ive thought very carefully about whether it should be increased further, in view of 
the severity of the suffering caused. Of course, there is no way of putting a precise figure on 
distress. But Ive concluded that Im not going to direct the bank to pay more. 
I realise this will be disappointing to the partners, who had to live with these debts hanging 
over them for so long, despite doing their best to agree a way forward with the bank. But I 
dont think I can fairly direct RBS to pay more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I dont require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman