DRN-1575215
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy in 1993 when they took out a further advance on their 
mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide hasnt been able to confirm how the sale took place, 
but Mr and Mrs R say they applied for the further advance and PPI at a meeting with 
Nationwide at one of its branches.
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Rs joint names. But Nationwides records show that the 
PPI policy was in Mr Rs name. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid Mr and Mrs Rs monthly payments on the 
further advance for up to two years. Mr and Mrs R paid a monthly premium for the PPI.
The PPI policy ended in 1996 when Mr and Mrs R redeemed their mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide copies of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs R 
signed when they took out the further advance and PPI. I dont think thats surprising 
or unreasonable, given that this happened so long ago.
 
Mr and Mrs R say they assumed the PPI came automatically with the mortgage, and 
was compulsory. But Ive borne in mind that they took out the PPI more than 25 
years ago, and memories can fade. Nationwides records show that Mr and Mrs R 
had already taken out two advances on their mortgage without PPI. So I think theyd have known that they didnt generally need to take PPI as a condition of a mortgage 
with Nationwide.
 
Of course, I cant know what Nationwide said to Mr and Mrs R when they took out the 
further advance. But while I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs R have given us their honest 
recollection, without stronger evidence I cant conclude that its more likely than not 
that Nationwide led them to believe the PPI was compulsory. On balance, I think its 
more likely that they agreed to take the PPI, knowing that they had a choice.
 
If Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs R, it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. Nationwide says no recommendation was made, 
and based on what we know about the way Nationwide sold these policies at the 
time, I think thats likely to be right. But even if it did recommend the policy to Mr and 
Mrs R, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs R have told us that Mr R would have been entitled to 
up to 48 weeks full pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But if hed 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have covered 
Mr and Mrs Rs monthly payments on the further advance for up to two years Thats 
significantly longer than Mr R would have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would 
have paid the same benefit if hed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats 
more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr R received from his 
employer. So Mr and Mrs R could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses. And they wouldnt have had to use any savings they had to make their 
monthly repayments on the further advance.
 
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Rs property, and the consequences of falling 
behind with their monthly mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs 
R.
 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that I think they probably chose to 
take out the PPI - so I think its likely they wanted this type of cover, even if theyve 
understandably forgotten that now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time, Mr R was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example 
provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions).
 
The PPI was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr and 
Mrs R couldnt afford it. And since they were paying for it monthly, they could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they 
decided they no longer needed the cover.
 Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr and Mrs R would have 
made a different decision about taking the PPI out even if better information about 
the policy. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
 
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Rs comments, including that theyve said that paying 
for something that only pays out if unforeseen circumstances arise is not feasible. But that 
wasnt unique to this type of insurance. All insurance is designed to protect people against 
unexpected events. Mr and Mrs R couldnt have known when they took the PPI out that they 
wouldnt need to claim. And for the reasons Ive set out, I think the policy could have been 
useful for them if Mr R had been off sick or if hed lost his job. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. I can understand their frustration that Im having to 
reach my decision without sight of the documentation they signed. But for the reasons Ive 
set out, I cant fairly conclude that its more likely than not that the PPI was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman