DRN-1687384
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of service provided by Alwyn Insurance Company Limited in 
relation to his motor insurance policy. He wants it to refund his policy excess. 
What happened
Mr J was involved in an incident with another driver who was uninsured and fled the scene. 
Mr J followed the other driver and collided with the rear of his car when he braked. Alwyn 
treated the two incidents as separate claims. It said Mr J wasnt at fault for the first incident, 
but it initially thought he was at fault for the second. 
Mr J decided not to claim on his policy as his repairs estimate was less than his policy 
excess. Instead, he went to the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) to recover his excess. The 
MIB paid for Mr Js repairs from the first incident, but it didnt establish liability for the second 
and so Mr J didnt receive a further payment. Mr J thought Alwyn had prejudiced its decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Alwyn 
had told MIB that it didnt think Mr J was at fault for the second incident before MIB made its 
final decision about this. He didnt think the MIB had taken into account Alwyns initial views. 
He thought this hadnt affected the MIBs decision. So he didnt think Alwyn had done 
anything wrong.
Mr J asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J feels frustrated with how his claims have turned out. I can also 
understand that this has taken a lot of his time and caused him stress over the past two 
years. 
I can see that Mr J disagrees with the MIBs decision about the second incident. But Im not 
able to consider MIBs actions here as its outside our jurisdiction. So, like the investigator, 
Ive considered whether Alwyn prejudiced Mr Js chances of recovering his excess, or at 
least his repair costs and personal injuries claim, for the second incident from the MIB. 
Mr J has asked that I listen to his calls with our investigator, and I have listened to them all. 
Ive also looked at the file provided by the MIB. I can see that it had a brief discussion about 
the two incidents with Alwyn before it carried out any investigation. The file notes that Alwyn 
then held Mr J not at fault for the first incident, but at fault for the second one. 
Alwyn said this wasnt a formal admission of liability as it hadnt investigated the claim. I can 
see that it later held the other cars insurer liable and Mr J not at fault, even though no claims 
were made. So I think Alwyns initial comments to the MIB may have been premature. 
Ive looked to see if this error affected the MIBs decision about the incident. The MIB initially 
decided that it couldnt establish liability for the second incident. Mr J appealed against this 
and it reassessed the case fully and came to the same conclusion. It did this after Alwyn had 
changed its mind, holding Mr J not at fault. I think, from reading this report, that the MIB 
didnt put any weight on Alwyns initial comments. The MIB has confirmed to us that it 
doesnt rely on insurers views when assessing claims. 
So I cant reasonably say that Alwyns initial error had an impact on the MIBs decision. I 
think the MIB would have come to its own conclusion regardless. And so I cant say that 
Alwyn is responsible for the MIB not paying Mr J his policy excess, and I dont require it to 
refund this to Mr J.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman