DRN-3181261
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt fully reimbursed him for 
the money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr B explains he was made aware of a high interest investment through a contractor that his 
wife was working with. The contractor said they held a senior position in the government and 
had express permission to promote this investment.
The investment was described as being linked to a government bond scheme, specifically 
linked to what was described as county court funds. It was purported to offer a guaranteed 
monthly rate of return of 6.75%, plus compounding of that interest for up to a five-year term. 
Mr B says he was told he could withdraw funds without penalty when giving a months 
notice. 
Mr B made an initial investment of £5,000 in February 2019, transferring the funds from his 
Halifax account. In July 2019, he made two further payments totalling £45,000. Mr B made a 
final payment to the same recipient of £100 in December 2019. 
In total, Mr B made payments totalling £50,100. He says he funded much of this through 
borrowing. Hed received statements which appeared to show his investment increasing and 
was led to believe HMRC was paying out money on the investments.
When Mr B made the last payment of £100, he explains this had made by mistake  he 
hadnt meant to send it. He tried to withdraw his money, including money hed previously 
invested, and when this proved not to be possible, he realised there might be a problem. He 
reported this to Halifax.
Halifax looked into Mr Bs report of a scam. It was unable to recover Mr Bs payments, and it 
didnt think it was liable to reimburse him. 
With the exception of the first payment, Mr B made these bank transfers after the date the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The 
CRM Code provides additional protection when customers fall victim to push payments such 
as this one. 
However, Halifax didnt think Mr B had taken enough care before sending the payments  it 
didnt think hed had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate investment 
opportunity. It said therefore it didnt need to refund the relevant payments under the CRM 
Code.
Furthermore, Halifax said it had met the standards expected of it, in relation to all of the 
payments Mr B had made. In short, it didnt believe it should be liable to refund him.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome and asked our service to review the matter.
Our investigator considered everything Mr B and Halifax had submitted. She thought the 
terms of the investment scheme had been too good to be true, and that this should 
reasonably have prompted Mr B to have concerns. But she also thought Halifax should have 
done more. She thought in particular that it ought to have given Mr B effective warnings 
under the CRM Code for the relevant payments and should have contacted him about the 
first payment to check it wasnt connected to fraud. 
In short, she thought Mr B and Halifax should share liability here. The investigator 
recommended Halifax reimburse 50% of Mr Bs losses, with 8% simple interest payable from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Halifax has accepted the investigators view, agreeing to reimburse Mr B 50% of the money 
he lost plus interest at 8% simple per year.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He thought he should be entitled to a full refund. He 
said his wife had also put money into the scheme and had received a full refund from her 
bank. He explained his wife had known the scammer personally and meetings prior to 
making these payments had reassured him. He didnt think there was anything he could 
have done to check this wasnt a real government bond scheme and didnt think the rate of 
return was too good to be true.
In light of this disagreement Ive been asked to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
At the outset I should clearly state that there is no doubt here that this was not a legitimate 
investment scheme. The name of the scheme and the application form Mr B was given 
correspond to the Court Funds Office (CFO) which holds the assets of people who are 
unable to manage their own financial affairs. That is not an investment scheme. So, 
unfortunately, Mr B made these payments to a fake investment scheme.
As the investigator explained in her assessment: in broad terms the starting position at law is 
that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. So, the starting position is that the customer is liable for payments they 
make.
Nevertheless, where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to reimburse its customer 
even though the customer authorised the payment. 
Amongst other things, Halifax has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due 
regard to the interest of its customers and to follow good industry practice to keep 
customers accounts safe. It should also apply the CRM Code where relevant. 
Halifax accepts it could have done more here and it has already agreed to reimburse Mr B 
half of the money he lost in recognition of its share of the blame. What remains for me to consider is whether it is fair and reasonable that Mr B should share 
some responsibility for the losses.
In saying this, Im very sorry to hear that Mr B has been the victim of this scam and lost the 
significant sums he has. But I can only look at what Halifax is required to do  I cannot 
consider the actions of those who have tricked and deceived Mr B. And I need to decide that 
based on the facts of this case  reimbursement of someone else by their bank does not 
make Halifax liable here.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Halifax needs to offer 
more than it has already agreed to refund to Mr B. I understand that this is not the outcome 
Mr B wants but I can reassure him that Ive carefully considered all the circumstances of his 
complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and reasonable decision in all of the 
circumstances.
Ive set out below the reasons why Ive reached this conclusion. Slightly different 
considerations apply to different payments, so Ive separated these out.
The final payment: £100 - December 2019 
Before addressing the main payments involved, Ive considered the last payment Mr B sent. 
He explains this wasnt intended  he sent it by mistake. Ive taken account of what Mr B 
says about this payment and note that it is clearly very different in size to the other payments 
he made. On balance, I accept Mr Bs explanation that this was a payment he made 
unintentionally rather than a deliberate attempt to invest more in the scheme.
It follows that as this was not a payment Mr B made through the deception of a fraudster, but 
rather a payment made by mistake, it was not an APP scam payment.
A bank cant revoke a transfer once it has been correctly fulfilled in line with its customers 
instructions, as this was. When a customer makes an incorrect payment, their bank is 
required to make reasonable efforts to recover the funds. Im satisfied that Halifax took the 
correct steps when it was notified by Mr B. I dont find it at fault in relation to this transaction, 
and I dont require it to do more than it has already done in relation to this payment.
Payments made between February and July 2019
As noted above, Halifax has already accepted a share of the responsibility in relation to 
these payments. 
Ive therefore thought about whether Mr Bs actions, or inactions, mean he should share 
liability for the loss he incurred.
Taking everything into account, I think there were clear signs that this wasnt a legitimate 
investment. The monthly rate of 6.75% (which would then be compounded) was simply too 
good to be true. The yield on five-year government bonds at the time was under 1% per 
year. The supposed investment was said to pay interest over six times that annual rate every 
month. In other words, even if it wasnt compounded, the rate would be about 80 times the 
usual yearly rate for a government issued bond.
A similar comparison holds for other legitimate fixed term, fixed rate investments including 
bank accounts, savings bonds and other bonds  the rate Mr B was being offered was out of 
line with what could reasonably be expected. There was no real explanation given to Mr B about how such a remarkably high rate of return could be possible on a government backed 
investment scheme.
I think this should have been a clear red flag that something wasnt right with what he was 
being told. At the very least it should have prompted Mr B to independently investigate how 
exactly the scheme was proposing to pay such a high level of return. While Mr B explains he 
did find out some information about the scheme and knew the person who said they were 
running the scheme, I am not satisfied this was enough to explain how it could ever be 
possible to get annual returns of 80 times the normal rate.
Whats more, had Mr B taken reasonable further steps to look into what was being offered, 
such as searching online, I think this would have shown the scheme wasnt legitimate. 
Details of the rate paid by the real CFO Special Account are readily found through an 
internet search. That would have shown the court funds special rate was also under 1% per 
year in 2019. The application form Mr B was given is a standard CFO form also readily 
available to download online. I think taking such steps would have uncovered the fraud.
Considering the above, I think it is fair and reasonable that the blame for the resulting losses 
should rest with Mr B as much as with Halifax. Unfortunately, I think the attraction of the 
significant returns and the involvement of people he knew well led Mr B to invest when 
otherwise he might have had second thoughts. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont require Halifax to reimburse Mr B by more 
than the 50% figure it has offered. I think it is fair and reasonable for both sides to share 
equal responsibility for the losses here.
Does the CRM Code mean Halifax should fully refund Mr B?
Firstly, I should explain also that the CRM Code would not apply to the smaller payments 
Mr B made in February or December. The payment in February predates the introduction of 
the CRM Code and the code does not apply retrospectively. And in relation to the December 
payment, Mr B explains this was a payment he made by mistake rather than a payment he 
was tricked into making, so it wasnt an APP scam payment and the CRM Code wont be 
applicable.
But Halifax accepts that the two larger payments (both made in July) can be considered 
under the remit of the CRM Code. I have considered whether the CRM Code would require 
Halifax to do more than it has already offered to do. 
For Halifax to be liable to refund Mr B more than the 50% figure it has offered, Id need to be 
satisfied that Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were going to a 
legitimate investment - because otherwise Halifax is entitled to apply an exception to full 
reimbursement under the CRM Code.
But for very similar reasons to those Ive set out above, I dont think this was the case. I think 
the exceptionally high returns being offered should have prompted Mr B to do more research 
before sending a large payment, and that had he taken the steps I think he should have 
taken this would have led him to realise the scheme was not legitimate. 
In short, I dont think Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate 
investment scheme, which means I find Halifax is entitled to rely on the relevant exception to 
full reimbursement under the CRM Code. Therefore, Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr B more 
than the 50% it has already offered him.Halifaxs offer of settlement
In saying the above, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to 
Mr B and I am sorry he has lost out. He was the victim of a crime and of what appears to 
have been a cruel scam carefully designed to defraud him of his money. I appreciate the 
remaining 50% of his losses are a very significant sum. But in all of the circumstances, I 
cant fairly say Halifax should be held fully liable for what happened  I think Mr B fairly 
shares the blame equally here. 
Halifax has offered to reimburse Mr B half of the loss he incurred from the first three main 
payments he made. That equates to £25,000. Halifax has also agreed with the investigators 
recommendation that 8% simple interest should be added from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement. Given the sources of the money Mr B sent, I think 8% simple interest 
is a fair proxy for the likely cost and other inconvenience of him being deprived of the funds 
for the time he has been. 
It is my finding that the offer Halifax has made is a fair settlement in all of the circumstances. 
I do not require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my final decision that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax has made a fair offer to settle Mr Bs complaint. 
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the bank should settle Mr Bs complaint in line with its offer 
within 28 days of receiving confirmation of his acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman