DRN-3488536
The complaint
Mr W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) irresponsibly 
approved him for two credit cards. He also complains Barclaycard did not act fairly when 
registering defaults on these accounts.
What happened
Mr W was approved for two credit cards. Both cards were taken out some time ago. From 
the information which has been provided; card one had a credit limit increase to £6,000 in 
2004 and had subsequent credit increases in March 2014 and October 2014 to a maximum 
limit of £13,000. Card two had a credit limit increase in 2014 also. This was in June 2014 
and was for a limit of £12,000. There were no changes to the credit limits until 2020; when 
both cards had credit limit decreases. 
Mr W says that Barclaycard irresponsibly approved these credit increases. Both cards had 
subsequent credit decreases in October 2020. Both accounts then entered into arrears and 
ultimately ended up being defaulted. 
Mr W also complains Barclaycard acted unfairly when registering these defaults. 
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. He explained:
Due to the length of time that had passed there was limited information about the 
checks which were completed when the card was taken out or the subsequent 
increases in 2014;
Mr W had provided bank statements for the period covering all of the credit increases 
in 2014. And that from reviewing these statements, our investigator felt Barclaycard 
had acted reasonably when providing the credit increases; and
He had not seen any evidence that Barclaycard had acted unreasonably when 
registering the relevant defaults.
Mr W did not agree with our investigator. He maintained the decision to increase his credit 
limits was unreasonable; and that Barclaycard had not handled the registering of the defaults 
correctly. Mr W maintained Barclaycard had not provided him with sufficient information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so; Im satisfied Barclaycard does not need to do anything further in relation to 
this complaint. This is for largely the same reasons as our investigator set out to Mr W 
previously.
As Mr W is aware, due to the length of time that has passed since the credit cards were 
taken out there is limited information available for us to consider. Barclaycard has explained 
the process it wouldve followed when approving any credit increases and I have taken this 
into consideration. However ultimately, I have insufficient information to say whether 
Barclaycard did complete proportionate checks when the credit limits on both cards were 
increased in 2014.
With that being said, Mr W has provided us his bank statements from that period of time; and 
a recent copy of his credit report. And Ive considered this information when deciding if 
Barclaycard made a reasonable decision to increase his credit limits in 2014.
The bank statements demonstrate that Mr Ws account was well maintained and had a 
sufficient positive balance. The account does have a £5,000 overdraft limit but this is not 
really utilised by Mr W. I can see that when his balance does enter briefly into the overdraft, 
he is able to transfer funds in from a second account to cover any outgoings. Looking at the 
statements there are no signs of financial hardship or that the required repayments for the 
credit cards would be unaffordable to Mr W. This seems to support the information on        
Mr Ws credit file which (although not from the time the limits were taken) suggests that his 
credit commitments at that time were up to date; and there were no negative markers 
registered.
So even if Im unable to make a finding on what checks Barclaycard completed; I am 
satisfied that the information it wouldve gathered (potentially including checking Mr Ws 
bank statements and credit file) wouldve on balance shown Mr W could afford the 
necessary repayments. And on that basis, Im satisfied Barclaycard wouldve proceeded to 
lend to Mr W. It follows that as Im satisfied the information wouldve likely shown Mr W could 
afford the necessary repayments; that Im satisfied on balance Barclaycard made a fair 
decision when increasing the credit limits in 2014 across both cards. 
Mr W also complains Barclaycard acted unfairly when registering the subsequent defaults on 
both accounts. 
Ive carefully considered his argument in relation to this but again Im satisfied Barclaycard 
has acted reasonably in relation to this aspect of Mr Ws complaint.
I can see Mr W was in contact with Barclaycard as his accounts began to encounter 
difficulties from December 2020. Mr W had explained that he was having temporary issues 
with his employment status and that he hope this would improve in the near future 
(Barclaycards note suggest Mr W was starting a new business and expected income to 
come from this). 
Mr W says that Barclaycard did not act fairly during this time. Normally we would expect 
Barclaycard to consider forbearance measures and I can see that in this instance it worked 
with Mr W to implement a deferment plan which would fall into that category. I can also see it 
completed an up to date affordability assessment with him; and gave him sufficient 
information as to the likely next steps his account would take. Whilst I acknowledge Mr W 
feels Barclaycard shouldve done more; Im satisfied that the measures it did take were 
sufficient to meet the necessary requirements at the time. However, these measures were 
not sufficient for Mr W to bring the account back up to date, leading to arrears. 
Ultimately it appears as if the arrears on the account were developing to such an extent that 
Barclaycard began the default process. From the information Ive seen Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard has followed that process fairly, including allowing Mr W sufficient time to bring 
the accounts up to date and sending the necessary notices. Whilst Mr W mayve asked for 
Barclaycard to delay this application at times during this process, Barclaycard is not required 
to do so. And Im satisfied that the arrears on the account were such that it was reasonable for Barclaycard to conclude the balance would not be repaid; and therefore, continue the 
defaulting process. So, it follows that Im satisfied Barclaycard acted reasonably when 
defaulting the accounts.
Finally, I note Mr W intends to pursue aspects of his complaint regarding a subject access 
request via the Information Commissioners Office (ICO); which he is entitled to do. The ICO 
will reach its own findings on that matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman