DRN-4125467
The complaint
Mr F complains that Sytner Vehicles Limited, who Ill call Sytner, changed the finance 
agreement hed arranged through them for a new car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I dont think Sytner has done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration here as hes not only experienced delays with the 
delivery of his new car, but hes also had the details of the financing arrangement changed. I 
have every sympathy for those problems, but I dont think Sytner have broken the terms of 
the agreement they had with Mr F. 
The new car order was originally placed in December 2021 with an estimated delivery date 
of 9 months. The terms of Mr Fs vehicle order explained that:
2. DELIVERY 
(a) Sytner will provide an estimated delivery date or dates but shall be
under no liability whatsoever for loss occasioned by delay in delivery arising out of any
cause beyond the control of Sytner.
(c) If the Goods are not delivered within three calendar months of the estimated delivery
date the Customer or Sytner may elect by notice in writing to the other party to cancel
this contract. Upon such cancellation the Customers deposit shall be returned and
Sytner shall be under no further liability to the Customer.
So, when the anticipated delivery date was delayed by more than three months as a result of 
delays at the manufacturer, Sytner were entitled to cancel as the delay was out of their 
control. 
Sytner offered a new arrangement and explained to Mr F that the credit provider who they 
brokered the deal with were unable to offer the previous APR level. I can understand Mr Fs 
disappointment at that, but it was for the finance company, and not Sytner (the broker), to 
decide on the interest rate they wished to apply, and I cant see that Sytner were obliged to 
maintain the original offer given the delay that had been experienced.
Ultimately, I dont think Sytner have been unreasonable here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman