DRN-2821305
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt cancel his private medical insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr K says he cancelled his policy with AXA in August 2018, and took out a new policy with 
another insurer, through a broker. It wasnt until December 2019 that Mr K says he noticed 
AXA had continued to collect premiums, and the policy was finally cancelled after that. Mr K 
wants AXA to refund him the premiums he paid between September 2018 and 
December 2019 (inclusive).
AXA says theres no record of Mr K cancelling the policy. Its sent us a recording of a call on 
24 August 2018 where Mr K said hell cancel his policy. But when AXA offered to put him 
through to the relevant department, Mr K said hed take care of it. Mr K says he did call to 
cancel the policy, and AXA should do more to find the relevant call. 
As the AXA policy wasnt cancelled and Mr K took out a new policy, this meant that Mr K 
held, and paid for, two private medical insurance policies at the same time between 
September 2018 and December 2019 (inclusive).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was anything to show that 
Mr K had cancelled the policy with AXA. So, she didnt think there was anything AXA needed 
to do, to put things right.
Mr K didnt agree with out investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. Heres what I said:
Ive listened to the call recording AXA has provided. During the call, AXA declines to provide 
cover for treatment Mr K needs, so he says he wants to cancel the policy. AXA then offers to 
put him through to the relevant department to cancel the policy, but Mr K says hell take care 
of it.
AXA has sent us screenshots to show that no calls have been logged under Mr Ks 
membership number after the call in August 2018 until December 2019. I wrote to Mr K to 
explain that if he had more detail about when he cancelled the policy  such as the number 
he called from, number he called to, and when, I could ask AXA to look into this further. But 
Mr K hasnt given me this specific detail  for example, hes given me a list of four different 
phone numbers he couldve called from. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to ask AXA to carry out further searches in the absence 
of more detailed information, as it has already given us information to show that no calls 
have been logged under Mr Ks membership number. I also note that AXA sent Mr K 
renewal documents in March 2019 as the policy was due to renew in May 2019  I think this 
wouldve alerted Mr K to the fact that his policy with AXA remained in place. Its also the 
case of course that AXA continued to collect monthly premiums from Mr K.
Overall, having considered the evidence available, I dont think I can fairly say AXA has done 
anything wrong by not cancelling the policy, as theres no documentary evidence that Mr K 
asked it to do so. And I dont think theres anything more it needs to do to search for any 
calls.
That said, I have also considered the fact that Mr K held two private medical insurance 
policies at the same time. I think if AXA hadnt been on risk because Mr K had another policy 
that provided the exact same cover, then it might be fair and reasonable for it to refund the 
premiums Mr K paid.
Ive looked at the policy Mr K held with AXA, as well as the other policies he took out in 
2018, and in 2019 (while his existing policy with AXA renewed). I can see that the policies 
include similar cover, such as comprehensive cancer cover and full outpatient cover. Some 
of these benefits Mr K couldve only claimed for under one policy  but he couldve chosen to 
claim these either from AXA or his new provider. Some of the benefits he couldve claimed 
from both policies, such as therapy treatment.
I also think its crucial here that the moratorium start date on the AXA policy was on 1 May 
2015  whereas on the new policies this was on 1 September 2018. That means that Mr K 
was potentially covered for some pre-existing conditions (as defined in the terms) under the 
AXA policy, whereas he wasnt under his new policies.
Taking everything into account, I think AXA was still on risk for the policy between 
September 2018 and December 2019 (inclusive), and Mr K couldve claimed for benefits 
under the policy  potentially including for treatment that wouldnt have been covered under 
his new policies. Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask AXA to 
refund Mr K any premiums in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K responded to my provisional decision to say that he was disappointed. Mr K said that 
he cancelled his policy through a specific AXA office after arranging cover through a broker, 
and he doesnt think this has been fully explored. Mr K also said that when he received the 
renewal documents from AXA, he raised this with his broker. Mr K says the process of 
automatic renewal of policies without specific customer consent should be reconsidered by 
the industry.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said in response to my provisional decision. But the 
points he raises arent new, and I considered these when I reached my provisional decision.For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think theres anything more 
AXA needs to do to look for the call Mr K says he made to cancel the policy. Overall, I think 
AXA has done enough to show that theres no record of Mr K cancelling his policy.
I know Mr K raised the renewal with AXA with his broker. But I cant consider what the broker 
did (or didnt do) as part of this complaint, I can only consider what AXA has done. And I can 
see that the renewal letter says it was for Mr K to check if the policy was still suitable for his 
needs, and that his policy would renew automatically  but Mr K should get in touch if he 
wanted to change anything. I havent seen anything to suggest that he did get in touch with 
AXA at this point.
Its not within my power to look into how AXA renews its policies in general. I can only look 
into what it did for Mr Ks policy. Overall, I dont think AXA did anything wrong by renewing 
Mr Ks policy in the way it did. This is because AXA notified Mr K about the renewal and 
gave him a chance to get in touch if he didnt want to renew the policy.
Taking everything into account, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. That means I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not cancelling Mr Ks policy, or by not refunding him any premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman