DRN-3393940
The complaint
Mrs L complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua (NewDay) lent to her irresponsibly when 
they agreed a credit card for her and then continued to increase the credit limit on several 
occasions. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 1 March 2022. My provisional decision set 
out the background to Mrs Ls complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint in part, and it set out what NewDay needed to do to put things right.
A copy of the background to what has happened and my provisional findings, taken from my 
provisional decision, are set out below and form part of this final decision. 
What happened
Mrs L applied online for a credit card with NewDay and the account was opened on 18
March 2014 with a credit limit of £500.
The following credit limit increases were made by NewDay:
June 2014 increase to £1,200
November 2014 increase to £1,800
March 2015 increase to £2,800
July 2015 increase to £4,050
December 2015 increase to £5,300
Mrs L says NewDay should not have agreed to give her a credit card in March 2014, nor
should they have subsequently increased the credit limit as described above. Mrs L has said
there were red flags NewDay should have recognised as indicators that she was struggling
financially - such as using cash withdrawals to pay for other credit and making cash
withdrawals as soon as the limit was increased; being close to the credit limits, and noting
that she was borrowing in excess of her income. Mrs L felt NewDay should also have
realised she was finding things difficult as she primarily made minimum payments towards
the account.
Mrs L said the initial application wrongly stated she was self-employed and recorded her
income as higher than it was. She also said NewDay was wrong to rely on her husbands
income in their considerations to lend.
Mrs L also shared with us that she suffers with anxiety and that dealing with this matter has
caused her much stress.
NewDays position was that they were unaware of any mental health challenges Mrs L had
been facing whilst she had the card. They noted Mrs L had never opted out of the credit limit
increases. And they said their credit searches had shown Mrs L managed to meet her
financial commitments and met the minimum payments required. NewDay said Mrs L had
declared an income of £12,000 as a self-employed person (which as noted above, Mrs L
said was incorrect). And they didnt think the cash withdrawals automatically demonstrated
there was anything to be concerned with until prior to the last credit limit increase. NewDay
said the last limit increase should not have been approved as Mrs Ls behaviour of repeated
cash withdrawals prior to the last increase were more indicative that something was wrong.
NewDay therefore agreed to put things right for Mrs L from the point of the last credit limit
increase and also made the decision to close Mrs Ls account  which Mrs L found unfair.
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Ls case and they felt it should be upheld. In summary, the
investigator said NewDay had not carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to see if
Mrs L could sustainably meet the commitment of a new credit card and they concluded
Mrs L should not have been given the credit card from the outset.
NewDay didnt agree with this, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  this includes Mrs Ls most recent
submissions outlining in detail why she believes NewDay have acted unfairly.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website  which Ive also taken into account.
I understand this will not be the outcome Mrs L was hoping for, but having reviewed all the
available evidence and submissions, Im minded to reach a different conclusion to that of our
investigator. That is, I think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld in part and Ill explain why.
Mrs L has highlighted NewDays obligations as a lender. And as Ive mentioned, our role as
a service is to consider what is fair and reasonable when deciding cases taking into account,
amongst other things, the relevant regulations.
NewDays obligations as a lender were to lend responsibly. So they had to assess whether
Mrs L could afford to sustainably meet the repayments for her credit card  and as Mrs L has
noted, this meant a focus on the borrowers circumstances not just what the risk would be to
NewDay as a lender.
Mrs L took out the credit card on the cusp of regulatory changes, but the responsibilities
were still broadly the same. That is, NewDay needed to carry out reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing whether to lend. For example, it would not have been
proportionate to verify someones income, complete a credit search, request bank
statements, and complete a detailed budget analysis if the individual earnt a reasonable
income and was borrowing a small amount.
At the time of Mrs Ls initial application for the credit card in March 2014 NewDay explained
they didnt require evidence of income and expenditure, but instead relied on information
from the customer and data supplied by the credit bureau.
NewDays internal records of the online application show Mrs Ls income was £12,000 a
year alongside other household income of £26,000. NewDays additional searches at the
time showed Mrs L had unsecured debt of £13,400 and that she had no recorded arrears,
public records, defaults, payment arrangements or debt management plans in place.
I understand Mrs L has commented NewDay was increasing the level of her borrowing to a
sum in excess of her income, but this isnt something which automatically means hercomplaint should be upheld. Borrowing totalling in excess of an income is not uncommon 
for example, mortgage borrowing is often well in excess of a borrowers annual income, but it
is the consideration given to the affordability of the repayments which is key. So did NewDay
complete reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mrs Ls creditworthiness  her
ability to sustainably repay the credit  when they approved the card?
The credit limit of £500 did not significantly increase Mrs Ls existing borrowing and there
was nothing in the searches carried out to suggest Mrs L was struggling to manage her
credit commitments at the time. NewDay relied on information from the application made
online, which did not contain anything to suggest it should be questioned - so I dont think
there was anything, at this point, that could have prompted NewDay to verify Mrs Ls income
or carry out additional checks. In the circumstances, NewDay agreed to provide Mrs L with a
credit card  and Im minded to say this was reasonable. I think the checks NewDay took at
this time were therefore reasonable and proportionate.
Mrs L didnt seek the credit limit increase from NewDay in June 2014, but I note she could
have opted out and chose not to.
NewDay said that when reviewing their customers accounts they used a range of data to
assess if the credit limit could be extended, including the internal information they had about
the account management, as well as external information from the credit reference agencies
and then they assessed this against their lending policy  so a customers credit limit could
be increased or reduced depending on the review.
Again, Ive considered whether NewDays checks at the time of the increase - only a short
few months later - were reasonable and proportionate.
I think it was a fair assumption to make that Mrs Ls details were unlikely to have changed in
the short time since the credit card was approved, so I think it was reasonable not to query
Mrs Ls income at this point. And there was of course, now additional information available to
NewDay in terms of how Mrs L was managing the account.
Ive considered what Mrs L has said about her borrowing against the card within the first
month of having it  including the cash withdrawals and some retail spending which took her
to around 74% of the credit limit. But Im also mindful that the month before the first credit
limit increase Mrs L paid off a significant amount of the outstanding balance. The card had
also only been in place for a few months and I dont think there was anything to alert
NewDay to any problems Mrs L was having at that time - payments were being made each
month and not much time had passed since the initial application that there was any reason
to check if her circumstances had changed. So based on what Ive seen, I think the checks
and considerations NewDay took at this time were still reasonable and proportionate.
However, by the time of the second credit limit increase in November 2014 the limit had now
increased significantly. Mrs L had also made three consecutive cash withdrawals each
month since the last credit limit increase (£400, £250 and £100); there was retail spending
on the account every month and Mrs L had only made minimum payments since the start of
having had the card (except for the one larger payment noted earlier). The balance on the
card now also sat close to the limit and had therefore grown in the short months since the
previous credit limit increase.
In view of this, I think at this point it wouldve been reasonable for NewDay to complete
additional checks when reviewing Mrs Ls account for another credit limit increase. So I dont
think the checks carried out before the November 2014 limit increase were reasonable or
proportionate. I think it would have been reasonable for NewDay to look more closely at
what they now knew about Mrs Ls management of the account and made further enquiriesabout her creditworthiness.
I think if NewDay had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks at that time they
wouldve found Mrs Ls situation was less than comfortable. I think at this point it wouldve
been reasonable for NewDay to verify Mrs Ls income. If they had done this they wouldve
seen Mrs Ls income was in fact significantly below the sum declared on the initial
application form.
Mrs Ls bank statements show that Mrs Ls monthly income in July 2014 was £417.19;
August 2014 it was £392.99; September 2014 it was £319.79; November 2014 it was
£458.08 and in December 2014 it was £379.38. Ive not seen October 2014s income, but
Im satisfied it wouldve shown a similar sum to those set out above.
In her submissions to our service, Mrs L also supplied details of her earnings as set out in
her P60s for 2015 (£4,893.23) and 2016 (£4,574.88) and I think these go some way to
further supporting that Mrs Ls income was not the £12,000 initially declared on the
application form.
I think with a better understanding of Mrs Ls actual income, it wouldve then been
reasonable for NewDay to further assess Mrs Ls other financial commitments to understand
what Mrs L could in fact afford.
Having reviewed Mrs Ls bank statements, she had a number of regular monthly financial
commitments which taken together exceeded her income. Our investigator detailed Mrs Ls
commitments in their opinion to both parties showing the monthly commitments were
regularly over £700 each month. So, even taking into account the monthly child benefit
payments Mrs L received (£134.80), Mrs Ls outgoings were still more than her income and I
think its fair to say an income and expenditure form wouldve highlighted this.
If NewDay had requested Mrs Ls bank statements as part of their checks, they wouldve
seen the above mentioned financial commitments, and it wouldve been possible to see
there were cash deposits into Mrs Ls bank account to help her manage the account and
avoid account fees. While Ive not looked in detail at where these cash payments came from,
given the cash withdrawals on the NewDay credit card and Mrs Ls submissions on how she
managed her credit using other credit facilities to make her payments, I think it wouldnt have
taken much for NewDay to query the source of the cash payment and question whether Mrs 
L could in fact afford any more credit.
I note there has been some debate in the submissions as to whether one of Mrs Ls financial
commitments was essential. Given Mrs L was contracted into making this payment (so to
break the contract would potentially have had repercussions) and shes told us the service
she was paying for provided something she used to help with her work, I think its fair to say
this was something that was essential to Mrs L.
So I think from this point  November 2014 - NewDay should not have increased Mrs Ls
credit limit any further.
Im aware of Mrs Ls submissions about her husbands income and NewDays reference to
this as part of their considerations and I think it fair to say that Mrs Ls husbands income
could only have been taken into consideration if NewDay had reasonably questioned this at
the start  which they did not. In the application Mrs L was noted as a homeowner and
NewDays credit search for Mrs L had not shown that she had any responsibility for a
mortgage  so as a starting point I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable to assume the
other household income may have been paying for other such financial commitments and
therefore unavailable to Mrs L.Mrs L should note that my considerations above have not taken the additional household
income into account.
Im aware Mrs L has also mentioned in her submissions the Financial Conduct Authoritys
position on how businesses should deal with vulnerable customers. I am sorry to hear to
hear of Mrs Ls situation and that she experiences severe anxiety. I realise this can be very
debilitating and so I can see how this matter will have caused Mrs L much stress and
exacerbated things for her. My findings here are not intended to cause additional stress, but
I must consider what is fair in all the circumstances of the case. And its difficult for me to say
that NewDay should have done anything differently when handling Mrs Ls account if there
was no suggestion or awareness that Mrs L was a vulnerable customer. So I cant say they
should have done anything prior to the increase in November 2014.
Id also add that it was not unreasonable of NewDay to close Mrs Ls account in the
circumstances. Either party can choose to end the agreement and Im not aware that
NewDay put Mrs L in a difficult position by doing so. I understand that Mrs L took out a loan
in January 2020 and used this, in part, to consolidate the outstanding credit card debt prior
to her complaint to NewDay and their final response letter issued in March 2020.
Overall, I think it was reasonable of NewDay to approve Mrs Ls credit card in March 2014
and increase the credit limit in June 2014. However, at the time of the next credit limit
increase in November 2014 I dont think NewDays checks were reasonable or proportionate
and had they been I think they wouldve better understood Mrs Ls circumstances and not
increased her credit limit from that point. So I think there is more for NewDay to do in order
to put things right.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake the business made
hadnt happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs L in the position she would be in now if she hadnt
been given the credit limit increase from November 2014. But Mrs L was given the increase,
used the money and has already repaid the entire amount including interest and charges.
So I think NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua should:
a) Rework the credit card balance over the time Mrs L held her credit card, by removing
any interest charged relating to the balance above £1,200 and removing any charges
the increased limits and interest caused.
b) NewDay should then pay interest of 8% a year* on the total sum identified above as
additional interest and fees paid by Mrs L, from the date Mrs Ls account was closed
until the date NewDay settles the matter.
c) If, after reworking the credit card balance NewDay finds that Mrs L would, at times,
have paid more than enough to clear her balance, then NewDay should also pay
simple interest on the extra she paid, from the date she made the payment until the
point Mrs L wouldve owed NewDay something on her credit card again. The interest
should be 8% a year*.
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file in relation to this credit card.
NewDay should tell Mrs L what theyve done to work out a, b and c.*If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest NewDay must
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs L said she was disappointed as she didnt feel the cost of the loan she had taken out to 
clear the cost of the credit card had been taken into account. However, whilst she did not 
entirely agree with my findings, for the sake of resolving the matter Mrs L said she would 
accept the conclusions reached. 
Mrs L also welcomed the direction to NewDay to explain how they would work out their 
calculations. 
NewDay also replied to my provisional decision to say they did not agree with my findings. 
NewDay said they remained of the opinion that the credit limit increase arranged for Mrs L 
from November 2014 had been made using reasonable and proportionate checks. NewDay 
said that at this time, and at the time of the subsequent credit limit increases, they were not 
required to request evidence of Mrs Ls income in the form of bank statements or payslips  
so it was now unfair to rely on this information. NewDay said they reviewed how Mrs L was 
managing her account and the information reported to them by a credit bureau, and that until 
March 2016 they only received information from one credit bureau.
NewDay said there was no delinquency on Mrs Ls account  no late payments, the credit 
limit was not exceeded, and cash withdrawals were a feature of the card and all withdrawals 
were made in line with their lending policy. Because of this, NewDay said there was no 
apparent evidence of financial difficulties. 
And externally, there was also nothing to suggest Mrs L was struggling as there were no 
payday loans or arrears with other lenders, payment arrangements or reported affordability 
issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand NewDays response that they were under no obligation to obtain Mrs Ls bank 
statements and their concern at applying information with hindsight. I recognise there is no 
set list of information that NewDay was required to obtain from Mrs L when reaching their 
decisions to lend to her and increase the credit limit. However, NewDay was required to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess whether Mrs L could afford to 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable way.
As I set out in my provisional findings, at the time of the increase in November 2014, the 
level of credit approved for Mrs L was now significantly higher than when the credit card was 
first agreed. The original credit limit in March 2014 was £500, and the new proposed limit for 
November 2014 was £1,800. And I think this, together with the account management 
information available to NewDay  which they said they took into account as part of their 
reviews  did suggest it would be reasonable and proportionate to carry out further checks. 
Aside from one larger payment, all other payments had been minimum payments to the card 
and prior to the credit limit increase in November 2014 Mrs L had taken out three 
consecutive monthly cash withdrawals which together with retail spending had taken the 
card balance close to the existing credit limit. Mrs L had also significantly increased the balance as soon as the last credit limit had been agreed by making a cash withdrawal of 
£400 in addition to her retail spending on the card for £213.95. 
While I note NewDays comments about the information they found through the credit 
bureau, I think its reasonable to say there was enough to be found from Mrs Ls 
management of the account to prompt further questioning of her creditworthiness. And one 
reasonable check wouldve been to confirm Mrs Ls income. Whether NewDay did this 
through bank statements or payslips, I think either wouldve shown her income to be less 
than originally declared and so prompted further consideration of Mrs Ls circumstances. 
And I maintain, for the reasons given in my provisional findings above, that it wasnt fair of 
NewDay to rely on any other household income in their decision making unless they had 
properly understood what this was, and its availability to Mrs L.
I therefore think NewDay didnt do enough to check Mrs Ls creditworthiness at the time of 
the credit limit increase in November 2014. Had they done so I think they wouldve realised 
Mrs L wasnt in a position to sustainably manage the higher level of credit. 
Ive noted Mrs Ls point relating to the loan she took out to repay the outstanding credit card 
balance. Our service looks to put things right as far as its reasonably practicable to do so  
it is not an exact science. Mrs L should note that the remedy put forward in my provisional 
decision takes into account the times she may have paid more than the outstanding balance 
after it is re-worked to ensure she is compensated for any overpayments there may have 
been at that point. And I am mindful that Mrs L chose to repay the credit card using a new 
loan.
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua should follow the direction in the section Putting things right as 
described above in my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mrs Ls complaint is upheld in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman