DRN-4138938
The complaint
Mrs W complains AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to accept responsibility for a damp 
problem in her home. 
Mrs Ws been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of Mrs W. Similarly Ive referred to AXAs agents 
and contractors actions as being its own.  
What happened
Mrs W made a claim for subsidence to her home. AXA accepted the claim and undertook 
various repairs  including replacing flooring in a few rooms. In May 2022 she came to this 
service. She was unhappy with various aspects of how the claim had been handled. After 
our Investigator considered that complaint Mrs W and AXA accepted it to be resolved. 
In January 2023 Mrs W returned to this service. AXA had been set to investigate the cause 
of dampness to walls in one room of her property. She feels that had been caused by AXAs 
poor workmanship during the subsidence claim repairs. Mrs W was unhappy AXA had asked 
her to sign a disclaimer before it would make any intrusive investigations. 
But before our Investigator had considered that issue, AXA decided not to undertake any 
investigation. It said it had evidence to show the damp pre-existed its repair work. So it said 
it wasnt responsible for the damp and refused to take any further action. Mrs W didnt 
accept that. But our Investigator felt the evidence supported AXAs position. So she didnt 
ask it to do anything differently. As Mrs W didnt accept outcome the complaint was passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mrs W or AXA have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Although Mrs Ws complaint was originally focused on the now redundant disclaimer, her 
underlying concern is AXAs refusal to accept responsibility for the damp problem in her 
home. So Ive considered if its position is fair and reasonable. That means asking if its likely 
directly claim related  so resulting from the original subsidence. Or alternatively if its 
caused by AXAs repairs when settling that claim. 
Id expect AXA to make a lasting and effective repair. Mrs W feels it hasnt. In her opinion its 
repair to a breakfast room has caused additional problems  damp in the rooms walls. To 
resolve this she wants AXA to lift the floor and relay it and remove and repair damaged 
plaster on all four walls. 
Ive summarised Mrs Ws position. There was some dampness in the room, to walls and 
floor, caused by the drainage damaged by the subsidence. AXA failed to dry the room 
adequately before undertaking repairs. It didnt include adequate damp proofing when 
repairing the solid floor. It laid two rounds of self-levelling compound (SLC). This bridged an 
existing damp-proof course (DPC) via skirting backing timber. The floor slopes towards an 
outer wall. As a result moisture from the SLC ran to an external wall and now rises the walls 
causing a progressive damp issue. Mrs W feels various reports, from May 2022, July 2022 
and October 2022, support her position.  
Ive summarised AXAs position. The damp isnt related to the original subsidence or its 
repair works. It pre-existed the repairs as photos demonstrate. Its likely been occurring for 
some time. The cause is inadequate or non-existent DPC. A new damp proof membrane is 
required. So the problem is a maintenance one, rather than claim related. 
Ive considered and summarised the key evidence. 
AXAs repair to the flooring took place in October 2021. A photo, from before the repairs, 
showing the old solid floor shows evidence of dampness  peeling wallpaper and signs of 
mould staining at a low level. The subsidence drains issue had been known about for a while 
at that point. So the photo demonstrates a damp issue before the repairs began  although it 
doesnt evidence it didnt exist before the subsidence.     
The May 2022 report, commissioned by AXA, found evidence to indicate walls to be 
contaminated with hygroscopic salts. It explains these are typically associated with breach of 
ground water. It found raised moisture levels at low levels on the walls. The report says its 
possible the dampness may have occurred due to inadequate drying. It recommended damp 
proof specialist be appointed to inspect the damp proofing. 
A few months later, in July 2022, a damp proofing firm (again commissioned by AXA) 
inspected the property. The resulting report is the most persuasive report. It provides the 
greatest detail and technical explanation. 
The inspection took place about nine months after the repairs. It found no visible evidence of 
widespread structural damp  apart from some peeling and bubbling wallpaper at low level 
and damp staining. The damp shown and described seems to be broadly the same condition 
and extent as the pre-repair photo discussed above. So it doesnt support Mrs Ws view that 
the problem has progressed or worsened significantly in the nine months since the repairs.   
Moisture readings were taken for the walls. These were found to be generally low to 
moderate (8 to 10%) with some isolated high (ie 59%) readings - particularly in the areas of 
damaged wallpaper. 
The report explains some very high readings as being typical of plasterwork contaminated by 
ground salts. It explains how they build up in masonry over a very long period and leach 
through to plaster. These absorb moisture from the atmosphere, giving a false indication 
(through moisture meter readings) of the degree of dampness. 
The July 2022 report does consider if AXAs October 2021 floor repair could be, as Mrs W 
claims, responsible. It finds it to be feasible moisture, within the floor structure, could end up 
in the wall. But concludes this would only occur if the walls didnt contain an adequate damp 
proof course. It doesnt address or support Mrs Ws bridged DPC argument. Instead it found 
there to be no apparent evidence of an existing damp proof course. The report does accept 
one may be concealed by render. Mrs W disputes the lack of DPC  stating its shown in one 
of the reports photos. The report concludes, based on the condition of the plaster, that the dampness issue has 
been occurring for a number of years. It doesnt recommend, as a solution, removal of the 
new flooring or skirting backing that Mrs W believes to be the cause of progressive 
dampness.  Overall it doesnt support her view of the damp as claim related  instead it 
points to it be a long standing, slowly developing issue. 
Mrs W commissioned October 2022 - again provided by a damp proofing firm. This does 
support Mrs Ws position. It says the SLC bridged an existing DPC, allowing moisture to rise 
up the wall. It doesnt provide any further technical explanation or photos to support this 
conclusion. Theres no discussion of the extent or location of damp its author found. So its 
not possible to understand, from the report, if the damp had progressed since earlier points 
considered. 
Mrs W says damp has now risen high up the walls. To support this her representative 
provided photos taken in mid-September 2023. These show mid height moisture meter 
readings for two walls. 
Two arent very clear  but appear to be in the 10% to 19% range. Two more show 12.5% 
and 27.5%. Taking the July 2022 report, and other sources, as benchmarks the lower three, 
at least, could be said to be in the low to moderate scale. None of the four seem to be in the 
range of the high reading (57%) of the lower visibly damp wall. The photos dont show any 
clearly visible signs of damp  like staining or peeling wallpaper. So they dont persuade me 
damp has progressed higher up the wall or got significantly worse since AXAs repairs.  
I realise my decision will be a disappointment for Mrs W. But its based on the evidence 
available to me as set out above. I accept there is damp on the relevant walls. I accept its 
possible its claim related or that AXAs repairs are responsible. But unfortunately for Mrs W, 
what Ive been provided with hasnt persuaded me it most likely is. 
Overall I havent seen enough to persuade me the damp has worsened or progressed 
significantly since AXAs repairs. The available photos and descriptions dont evidence that. 
Neither is there enough to make me think the subsidence is probably the cause. The most 
persuasive evidence, the July 2022 report, finds the problem to be something thats been 
occurring over a number of years. 
So I cant say AXAs position that the damp is a pre-existing problem is unfair or 
unreasonable. That means Im not going to require it to do anything to address the damp 
issue.
Mrs Ws also referred to AXAs poor communications and wider poor service and 
workmanship. I havent considered that her as I can see it was looked at in the previous 
complaint she had with this service.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman