DRN-3425688
The complaint
Miss M complains that the repayment on the loan she had from My Finance Club Limited 
was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss M borrowed £300 from My Finance Club on 10 August 2021. She was due to repay 
£372 on 9 September 2021 but repaid £69.60 on 8 September 2021, £200 on 19 September 
plus £127.41 on 20 September 2021.
Miss M says she had to borrow more money elsewhere in order to repay the loan.
My Finance Club says it asked Miss M for details of her employment, her income and 
expenditure and also checked her credit file. It says it verified her income and confirmed she 
was living with her parents via the electoral roll. My Finance Club says Miss M's credit file 
showed her existing credit was well-managed and its other checks showed the lending was 
affordable. It adds that the delay in repayment was due to a change of circumstances 
following the approval of the loan.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
My Finance Club had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the 
available information to indicate further checks were required, or that the repayment was 
unaffordable.
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that if My Finance Club had carried out better checks 
it would have seen that her credit file showed other high cost loans and an overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan 
payment was affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the  customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
When Miss M applied for this loan, I can see that My Finance Club verified her income, 
asked about her other expenditure and carried out a credit check.
Im satisfied these checks went far enough because:
This was Miss Ms first loan with My Finance Club;
The scheduled repayment was around 28.5% of her income;
My Finance Club verified both her income and her living arrangements;
Miss Ms expenditure did not seem unreasonable given she lived with her parents;
My Finance Club was entitled to rely on the information provided by Miss M at this 
stage in the lending;The credit check showed Miss M was not over-indebted and her accounts were well-
managed;
The affordability calculation, including Miss Ms other credit commitments, showed 
the repayment was affordable.
I find, therefore, that My Finance Club carried out proportionate checks for the loan and 
there was no information to suggest the repayment was unaffordable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman