DRN-3583209
The complaint
Mr L complains that AWP P&C SA has unfairly declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr L booked a multi destination trip abroad with a group of friends, 
departing on 10 March 2020 and returning on 2 June 2020. This booking included flights and 
a bus travel pass. On 28 January 2020, Mr L took out travel insurance to cover this trip, 
which was underwritten by AWP.
Mr L departed from the UK for his trip as planned. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And by 23 March 2020 the FCDO had instructed all UK citizens travelling abroad to return 
home.
Mr Ls travel agent arranged a new return flight to come home early but this was cancelled. 
So, another flight was purchased. Mr L was able to return home on 23 March 2020. 
Upon his return, Mr L made a claim to AWP for the cost of new flights purchased and also an 
internal flight that was unused. AWP accepted the claim but only reimbursed the unused 
flight. It said that the policy doesnt provide cover for any additional expenses he incurred.
Unhappy with this Mr L made a complaint to AWP and brought the matter to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that the policy didnt cover additional 
expenses  so didnt think that aspect of the complaint had been declined unfairly.
However, she also found that Mr L had other costs, such as the unused portion of the 
original return flight and also the bus travel pass, which had not been paid. Initially the travel 
agent had been able to secure credit for these costs, however, it had subsequently gone into 
liquidation. As these credits were no longer available, our investigator recommended that 
AWP should now consider these expenses as not recoverable and settle them as part of the 
claim.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators view and so, as there was no agreement reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint.
AWP has settled some of the claim - so the circumstances leading to the cause of the claim 
are not in dispute. But what I need to consider is whether AWP has acted fairly when 
reaching the settlement figure.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr Ls claim has been considered under section 16 of the policy  under the heading 
Government travel restriction. The relevant section states the following:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to 1,000 in total, for your part of unused:
personal accommodation;
transport charges;
pre-booked tours;
other travel expenses (including cancellation fees, visas and STA Multiflex 
Pass);
fees for any short term pre-booked vocational courses, for example, teaching 
English as a foreign language or ski instructor courses
all of which have been paid for or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be 
recovered from anywhere else. We will provide this cover if the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office or any government or other official authority advise against 
travel to a country/region shown on your travel itinerary within seven days of your 
scheduled:
departure from your home country and the area forms a major part of your 
journey.
date of visiting that area, if you are already travelling.
Has the claim been settled fairly?
AWP has refused to pay for the additional expenses Mr L incurred as it says the policy only 
provides cover for the unused portion of his trip. From reviewing the section of the policy 
detailed above, it is clear cover is only provided for unused costs - there is no cover under 
this section for any additional expenses. 
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of the policy and there isnt any other section 
which would provide cover for Mr Ls additional travelling expenses to come home early due 
to the circumstances he encountered. Taking this into account, Im satisfied that AWPs 
decision to refuse this aspect of the claim is fair.
However, as pointed out by our investigator, there are other parts of Mr Ls trip which 
remained unused  the return portion of his original flight ticket and the bus travel pass. It is 
commonplace with all travel insurance policies that cover is only provided for costs that you 
cannot get back via any other source, and this would include credit vouchers or offers to 
rebook. As Mr Ls travel agent was initially able to secure credit on the flight and bus pass to 
be used for a future booking, this would mean that the costs were recoverable and therefore 
not covered by the policy  so I dont think it was unreasonable for AWP to not consider 
these costs when the claim was first made.
Unfortunately, after making the claim, Mr Ls travel agent went into liquidation. And having 
checked with the bus travel pass provider directly, they were unwilling to honour the credit 
due to non-payment by the agent. There are consumer protection schemes which can assist travellers when a business fails, however, due to the time that has passed since this 
happened, the opportunity to claim from these schemes is no longer available to Mr L. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Even though it seems Mr L didnt attempt to make a claim 
through the consumer protection schemes within the required timeframe, it isnt known if his 
claim would have been successful. So, I cannot say with any certainty that he would have 
been able to recover his losses. In the circumstances, Im of the opinion that this should now 
be considered as an irrecoverable loss. Mr L has unused travel costs, which he cannot 
recover from elsewhere. The policy provides cover for unused costs under Section 16 of the 
policy  the section under which AWP has already made a payment for the internal flight. In 
the specific circumstances of this case, Im persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for 
AWP to reassess the claim for the unused bus travel pass, on the basis this cost is 
irrecoverable, under Section 16 of the travel policy, subject to any remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Im aware that the cost of the bus travel pass is more than the policy limit of £1000 under this 
section and therefore any payment will be subject to that limit. And any payment already 
made by AWP to Mr L as part of that section limit can be deducted from the settlement. In 
the circumstances, I therefore havent made a finding on any other unused costs.
Putting things right
AWP needs to reconsider the claim for the unused bus travel pass, on the basis the cost is 
considered irrecoverable, and settle this cost, subject to the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy and taking into account the section limit of £1000. Any payments already made 
under this section can be deducted from the policy limit.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Im upholding this complaint.
AWP P&C SA needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman