DRN-2945772
The complaint
Mr O complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited held him liable for an incident and 
settled another drivers claim on his motor insurance policy without telling him. He wants 
£6,000 compensation for the effect this had on his health.
 
What happened
Mr O was involved in an incident when his car tapped the rear of another car in slow moving 
traffic. Mr O notified Haven and didnt want to make a claim. Haven told him he would be 
held liable and it would settle the other drivers claim if one was made. But Mr O only found 
out that Haven had settled the claim at his next renewal. He was unhappy with the costs of 
the claim and that it included personal injuries.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Haven was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. And she thought it had told Mr O that he 
would be held liable. But she thought Haven should have done more to communicate the 
progress of the claim. And she thought Haven should pay Mr O £75 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused. 
Haven agreed to do this. But Mr O replied that he wanted £1,000 compensation for the 
inconvenience and stress Haven had caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Os ill-health. I can see from the information hes provided that 
this was established before this incident. I dont doubt that this matter has caused Mr O 
stress. But any claim will involve a certain level of stress. And so I cant reasonably hold 
Haven responsible for his ill-health. 
Mr Os explained that he thinks the other driver cut him up and then braked in front of him, 
so causing Mr O to hit his rear. Mr O told us there was no damage to either car, but he told 
Haven at the time that his car had a dent, but he didnt want to claim. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr O the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that Haven is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr O to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr O has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest 
a third party claim or better to compromise.
The evidence that Haven had to consider was Mr Os and the other drivers versions of 
events, expert evidence of the medical claim and photos provided by Mr O. Mr O told us that 
he had witnesses, but I cant see that he told Haven this at the time. 
There was no dispute that Mr O had hit the rear of the other car. Haven thought the onus 
was on Mr O to maintain a safe stopping distance. So it thought it would be unable to defend 
the matter if it went to court. And so it settled the other drivers claim after negotiations and 
after reviewing the evidence. 
I think Haven reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before making this decision. And I think it was entitled to do this by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that it did anything wrong in holding Mr O liable and settling the 
other drivers claim. 
Haven told Mr O in his notification call that he would be held liable in the case of the other 
driver making a claim and that it would settle this in full. But, as our investigator explained, 
Haven has a duty under the rules that guide insurers to keep consumers reasonably 
informed about the progress of a claim. This is so they can provide accurate information at 
renewal. 
Haven has agreed with the investigators view that it didnt do this. When a business makes 
a mistake, as Haven accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers 
position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the 
consumer. 
I cant see that the errors caused Mr O any financial loss as it didnt affect the outcome of the 
claim and he hadnt renewed elsewhere before he found that the claim had been settled. So 
I dont require Haven to pay Mr O compensation for this. But I can see that the error did 
cause Mr O trouble and upset when he learned that the claim had been settled. 
But I think it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Haven to pay Mr O £1,000 
compensation. The investigator recommended that Haven should pay Mr O £75 for this 
trouble and upset. I think this is fair and reasonable as it reflects the small amount of trouble 
and upset caused by the lack of communication and its in keeping with our published 
guidance.
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr O £75 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of communication, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman