DRN-1713794
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the interest rate MBNA Limited has charged on his credit card account 
and the withdrawal of a promotional offer. 
What happened
Mr R has a credit card with MBNA which he took out in 2011. When he opened the card, it 
had a promotional offer whereby Mr R would receive airmiles.
In 2016 the interest rates applicable to Mr Rs credit cards increased.
In 2018 the promotional offer was discontinued and withdrawn from the account. As a result, 
MBNA changed the type of card Mr R had with his account.
In February 2020 Mr R complained to MBNA. He said he was unhappy with the interest rate 
being charged on his card  especially since the promotional reward offer had been 
removed. He says he wasnt given any choices when the reward was withdrawn. And he felt 
MBNA should refund all interest applied to the card since the promotion was withdrawn.
MBNA didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr R referred his complaint to this 
service. He said in addition to being unhappy with the changes to his account he wasnt 
happy with how MBNA had handled his complaint. He said it had been obstructive.
An investigator reviewed the matter. She felt the changes made to the account were in line 
with the terms of the agreement and that MBNA had made Mr R aware of them in advance. 
So, she didnt think she could fairly ask it to refund the interest charged. She also felt MBNA 
had handled the complaint fairly. 
Mr R did not agree. He said the card had been advertised a certain way and was then 
changed without MBNA giving him options. He also still felt the complaint had been handled 
poorly. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs credit agreement and the terms and conditions applicable to the 
account. One of these is that interest will be charged on the outstanding balance. They also 
set out that MBNA can alter the interest rates applicable to the account  and will provide 
notice of this to Mr R. And the terms explain that Mr R can repay the balance at any time 
without penalty and close the account.
MBNA increased the interest rates on Mr Rs account in 2016. Ive seen contact notes 
showing that MBNA sent him notification before this change was made. And Ive also seen 
evidence that the notification explained what the new rate would be, and that Mr R could opt 
out of it if he no longer wanted the account and end the agreement.Based on this I think its likely MBNA gave Mr R the required notice of the changes. And, as 
it was not told at that time Mr R wanted to opt out and end the agreement, I think it has acted 
fairly by continuing to apply interest to the account.
The terms and conditions of the account also explain that MBNA can make other changes to 
the terms, including withdrawing promotional offers or changing the type of card it provides - 
and that it will notify Mr R in advance. If such changes are made, the underlying agreement 
remains in place. And there is no requirement within the terms for other conditions to be 
amended, such as the interest rates applied to be suspended or reduced, if promotional 
rewards are withdrawn.
As Ive said, Mr Rs account previously benefitted from a promotional reward whereby he 
could accrue airmiles. And I dont doubt that this was advertised and promoted when he first 
took the card in 2011 and likely played a part in his decision to take the card. But again, the 
conditions of the agreement explain that MBNA can alter the terms  including withdrawing 
promotional offers or changing the card provided under the account. So, I think MBNA was 
entitled to withdraw this reward. And Ive seen evidence to show MBNA wrote to Mr R to 
inform him the promotional offer was being withdrawn before this took place. So overall, I 
think MBNA has acted in line with the terms of Mr Rs account when making this change.
Mr R has said he wasnt offered any options when this change was made. Under the terms 
of the agreement he always had the option to close the account and repay the balance. Ive 
also seen a copy of the text that MBNA says was included in the notification Mr R was sent 
when the reward was withdrawn. And this included a section explaining what Mr R could do 
if he no longer wanted the card. Beyond that, I dont think MBNA was required to offer any 
further options. And as Mr R did not tell it otherwise, I think it was fair of MBNA to think that 
he wanted to continue with the credit agreement.
So, I dont think MBNA acted unfairly or incorrectly when it withdrew the promotional offer. 
And as it hasnt done anything wrong when withdrawing the offer, I cant reasonably require 
it to refund interest charged since that point. 
Turning to how Mr Rs complaint was handled by MBNA, Ive seen evidence that it was 
logged on the date Mr R called to complain. Ive listened to a recording of the conversation 
between Mr R and MBNA when he called to complain. And I dont think MBNA dealt with the 
call unreasonably or did anything to prevent Mr R from making a complaint. I also note he 
made it clear during the call he was aware of his right to bring the complaint to our service - 
which MBNA did not dispute. Ive seen a copy of MBNAs response, which it says was 
issued the same day, and appears to have been addressed correctly. So overall, I dont think 
MBNA dealt with the complaint unfairly.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman