DRN-3806918
The complaint
Miss B complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans 
(Provident) is holding her liable for a loan in her name which she says she did not consent 
to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Provident is holding Miss B liable for a £900 loan which was taken out her name.  
Miss B says she disputed this with Provident in 2019  i.e. she argued she did not consent to 
the loan  and thought the matter had been resolved in her favour.  However, she says she 
discovered in 2021 that things had not been resolved and that the loan was still appearing 
on her credit file.  Miss B raised a complaint about this.  Unhappy with Providents response, 
she referred her complaint to our Service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  The investigator issued his 
findings on 9 September 2022.  Miss B accepted them, but to date  despite several chasers 
 Provident has not responded.  As a result, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I think it is important if I highlight at the outset that Provident has sent our Service 
its business file on this complaint.  However, after our investigator issued his findings 
upholding the complaint, Provident has not engaged with our Service at all.  It has not 
responded to several chasers sent, not just from the investigator, but also one from myself.  
Ideally, I would like, before issuing my decision, to consider Providents response to the 
investigators findings (if any) and question it about certain aspects of its business file.  But, 
because of Providents lack of response, I have decided to make a decision in this matter 
based on the evidence and information available to me.
Provident has said to this Service, amongst other things,  the [loan] account has been 
written off in full when Satsuma ceased trading in December 2021.  With that in mind there is 
no money owed by the customer and the account has been marked as partially settled on 
her credit file.  If you have evidence the account was taken out fraudulently then we will be 
happy to remove the entry from the customers credit file.
Having considered the evidence before me, I am persuaded, on balance, that it is more likely 
than not, that Miss B did not consent to the loan being taken out in her name; nor am I 
persuaded, on balance, that she had use of the loan funds.  I will explain why.
Based on the evidence, it appears as if Provident has looked at Miss Bs complaint on two 
separate occasions: once in 2019 and again in 2021.  On both occasions, Provident said it 
would be holding Miss B liable for the loan because her current account provider  which I 
will refer to N in this decision  stated that there had been no fraudulent activity on her 
account.
However, by way of email sent to Miss B on 7 November 2019, N stated, amongst other 
things, that there had been fraudulently activity on her account during the period we are 
concerned with.  I acknowledge Provident has provided emails from N sent in 2021 which 
state there was no fraudulent activity on Miss Bs account  however, I am inclined to 
conclude that this was done in error.  I say this because not only does Ns email of 7 
November 2019 say there was fraudulent activity on Miss Bs account, N has also confirmed 
this directly with our investigator during his investigation of Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B says she forwarded Ns email of 7 November 2019 to Provident during its first 
investigation in 2019.  She also says Provident told her, off the back of Ns email, that the 
matter had been resolved in her favour.  Because of this, Miss B did not take things further.  
However, Miss B says it was not until March 2021, when she discovered the loan was 
showing up as an unpaid default on her credit file.  Given the content of Ns email 
(confirming fraud on her account), the time between the two occasions Miss B raised this 
matter with Provident, and, more importantly, Providents lack of response  I am inclined to 
accept Miss Bs testimony.  That is, she sent Ns email of 7 November 2019 to Provident, 
and as a result, it (Provident) told her the matter had been resolved in her favour.
So, in summary, I have established N confirmed there was fraud on Miss Bs account during 
the period in question, and that this email was forwarded to Provident during its first 
investigation in 2019.  Now, I must consider whether Miss B consented to the loan being 
taken out in her name; and whether she had use of the funds.
The evidence N sent to our investigator seems to suggest that Miss Bs current account was 
subject to fraudulent activity  in particular her online banking  and compromised on the 
day the loan funds were credited to her account (or possibly before).  The evidence also 
shows that the loan funds were transferred to another one of Miss Bs N accounts and then 
to a third partys account.
I acknowledge that the above does not necessarily prove that Miss B did not consent to the 
loan being taken out in her name.  However, I have concluded, on balance, that she did not 
provide consent for the following reasons:
N have confirmed that Miss Bs account was compromised which resulted in the loan 
funds being transferred out to a third party.  To my mind, it is only logical that a third 
party who took out a loan fraudulently  would want access to the loan funds to be 
able to make use of them.  In Miss Bs case, the loan funds were credited to her 
account  an account which had been compromised  and transferred out to a third 
party.  This all happened on the same day, which is, to my mind, behavior indicative 
of a fraudster.
As N suggests Miss Bs online banking had been compromised  I take the view that 
it would not have been difficult for the third party to obtain details sufficient enough to 
take out a loan in Miss Bs name.
There is no evidence to suggest Miss B had use of the loan funds.Provident has not provided any satisfactory evidence in its initial submissions to 
challenge the above.
Provident has not responded at all the investigators findings.
So, taking all the above points together, I am persuaded, on balance, that Miss B did not 
consent to the loan being taken out in her name  nor had use of the loan funds.
As I am also persuaded, on balance, that Miss B would have sent Provident Ns email of 7 
November 2019  I take the view that she should be paid compensation to reflect 
Providents failure to take things further during its first investigation in 2019.  I am persuaded 
that Providents omission caused Miss B much trouble and upset.  As recompense, I agree 
with the investigator that £200 would be fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  I therefore direct that Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans):
Remove any data reported to the credit reference agencies about the loan.
Pay Miss B £200 in compensation.
If, for whatever reason the loan has not been written off as has been suggested (see above), 
then I direct  in addition to the above bullets  that Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(trading as Satsuma Loans):
Write off the loan and close the account.
Should not pursue Miss B for any interest or charges arising from the loan 
agreement.
Should not pursue Miss B for the principal sum of the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman