DRN-4248926
The complaint
Mr T complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund £5,750 he lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr T fell victim to an investment scam in July 2022 after he 
found an investment opportunity on social media. He was contacted by a fraudulent broker 
(the scammer) who encouraged him to invest in cryptocurrency. He opened an account 
with a cryptocurrency platform and three payments were made from his Revolut account 
between 26 and 27 July 2022 totalling £5,750.
Mr T said he wasnt sure how the payments were made and that he thought it was the 
scammer that set up the payments via remote access software. However, Revolut didnt 
consider the payments to be unauthorised as it said its app restricts access if remote access 
software is being used, so it thought the payments wouldve likely been authorised by Mr T. 
It also said the payments did not flag as suspicious, so there was no reason for it to have 
intervened. Unhappy with this, Mr T referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She thought the payments were likely 
authorised by Mr T, as he had said he was aware that payments were being made from his 
Revolut account to his cryptocurrency wallet as part of the investment. And she didnt think 
the payments were unusual enough to have warranted an intervention or tailored scam 
warning from Revolut, so she didnt think it could be held liable to refund the money Mr T 
lost. 
Mr T disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) say that a payment transaction is 
authorised by the payer where they have given their consent to the execution to the payment 
transaction. Such consent must be given in the form and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and the payment service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transactions in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, the first question I need 
to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mr T authorised the transactions. 
In other words, I need to decide whether he made the transactions himself or gave someone 
permission to do so.
Mr T said that he made the initial payment of £500, but that it was the scammer who made 
the subsequent payments of £3,400 and £1,850. He says that, while using Anydesk, he 
opened his Revolut app and says they made the payments to his crypto wallet, saying it was 
for advanced verification checks for Binance. 
The PSR 2017 do allow for payment transactions to be initiated by someone acting on behalf 
of the account holder, which can be agreed informally (e.g. by the account holder asking or 
permitting a third party to undertake a task on their behalf). And if the account holder has 
permitted a third party to appear as if they have the consumers authority to make payment 
transactions, those payment transactions will likely be authorised, even where the consumer 
didnt ask the third party make any payments or know about them.
Revolut has said that it wouldnt have been possible for the scammers to take control of 
Mr Ts device to make payments from his Revolut app as it restricts access if remote access 
software is detected. So, it seems unlikely that the scammers wouldve been able to make 
the payments in the way Mr T has described, and I note his representatives have also 
accepted that he may have been confused about how the payments were actually made. So, 
I think the payments were more likely than not to have been carried out by Mr T on his 
Revolut app, albeit I accept he may not recall doing this.
Even if the scammers could have somehow made the payments using remote access 
software, he knew the scammers would be transferring money out of his account and into his 
crypto wallet. So, if it wasnt Mr T who made the payments, I think its still likely he knew that 
payments were going to be made from his account, and that he had therefore given 
permission/consent for those payments to be made on his behalf.  
I have therefore treated all of the disputed payments as having been authorised by Mr T. 
And the starting position in this scenario is that banks ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed, with Mr T 
being presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr T from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
Having reviewed the three payments Mr T made as part of the scam, I dont consider they 
were unusual or suspicious enough to have warranted any form of warning or intervention by 
Revolut. The payments were made to an account in Mr Ts own name, and were spread 
across three transactions, neither of which were significantly large in value such that they 
ought to have given Revolut cause for concern that Mr T was at risk of financial harm. Given 
the account had only recently been opened, Revolut also didnt have any historical 
transaction data to compare this spending with to be able to determine if it was out of 
character or not. And overall, Im not persuaded there were any significant indications of 
fraud that would have required Revolt to have fairly and reasonably made further enquiries.
So, having considered the payments Mr T made to his crypto wallet, Im not persuaded there 
was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts fraud monitoring systems, or 
that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. I note that Mr Ts representatives have also said he was vulnerable at the time of the scam 
due to his age. But Im not persuaded his circumstances would amount to him being 
considered as vulnerable, and neither do I think Revolut ought to have been aware of any 
vulnerabilities either. Revoluts duty first and foremost is to execute transactions at the 
request of its customers. And given there was nothing to put it on notice that Mr T was 
vulnerable or lacked capacity to make his own financial decisions, I dont think it was under 
any obligation to put extra measures in place as a result.
Ive also thought about whether there was anything more Revolut could have done to 
recover the funds. However, in this instance, we know the payments were made to Mr Ts 
own crypto wallet before being swiftly moved on to the scammer, so there wouldve been no 
reasonable prospect of Revolut being able to recover any money from the receiving account 
in such circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr T, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman