DRN-3863694
The complaint
Mr I has complained following a claim he made under his home emergency policy with  
Aviva Insurance Limited. He says that further damage was caused and also believes he was 
mis-sold the policy. 
What happened
Mr I contacted Aviva when his boiler stopped working in January 2022. Avivas engineers 
attended and apparently resolved the issue. However, Mr I reported another fault and leak 
less than 48 hours later. 
Aviva arranged for another engineer to attend but they refused to work on the boiler, stating 
accessibility issues. There was a further visit the next day and Aviva say they engineer noted 
the boiler was working and didnt identify any safety issue or leak. Mr I disputes this and 
says he has provided evidence to show that the engineer wasnt in attendance long enough 
to have sufficiently checked the boiler. 
Mr I complained to Aviva. He said that the engineer who initially attended must have caused 
the second fault and leak. He said this resulted in him being without heating, which was 
especially distressing for him as he previously had pneumonia and Aviva were aware of this. 
Aviva responded and maintained that they arent able to provide repairs or cover going 
forward, due to the location of the boiler and poor access issues. They also said that three 
past boiler services had not been carried out in line with manufacturers guidelines. They 
offered Mr I a refund of policy premiums, three past service fees and compensation, which 
totalled £571.97. 
Mr I remained unhappy with this. He said that if the policy wasnt suitable he should have 
been told sooner and that it was mis-sold to him. He raised several other complaint points 
including that the leak had continued and the boiler was beyond economical repair, hed had 
to appoint his own engineer to ensure the boiler was safe, compensation was insufficient 
and that Aviva hadnt appropriately handled his subject access requests.
Our investigator looked into it. She said that there wasnt enough evidence that the 
engineers had caused the fault. She also said that Aviva werent responsible for the sale of 
the policy and that we werent able to consider a complaint about Mr Is subject access 
request to Aviva. 
Mr I didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to note that Mr I has complained about the sale of this policy and that is 
being looked at separately. He has also complained about the handling of his request for 
information, and is aware who he can refer that complaint to. 
From the evidence provided by both parties, I can see that after Mr I reported a noisy boiler 
at the beginning of January 2022, an engineer identified an electrodes fault. The part was 
ordered an installed a few days later. It appeared to be working. However, Mr I reported the 
boiler to have ceased working and to also be leaking, two days later. 
I can see an engineer attended the property on 16 and 18 January 2022 and both reported 
access issues to the boiler but that they left the property with the boiler working. After this 
the policy was cancelled due to the access issues. I can see how this will have been very 
frustrating for Mr I, having had the policy in place since 2016 without any suggestion that the 
access issues meant it shouldnt be. 
However, I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly by cancelling the policy. There is an access 
issue as shown by the photos and two engineers statements. Aviva are entitled to cancel 
the policy under the terms and conditions. 
Mr I has said that the engineer who installed the replacement part must have caused a fault, 
evidenced by issues only 48 hours later. However, this alone isnt enough for me to conclude 
that the issue was caused by the engineer. I am not aware what the apparent secondary 
issue was and there isnt any evidence that it wasnt pre-existing or that the engineer might 
have caused damage when replacing the electrodes. 
Mr I has also said that under the terms of his policy, a replacement boiler should have been 
covered, as his was beyond economical repair (BER). He has provided an email from an 
independent engineer which he says supports this. However, this doesnt provide any further 
evidence as to why the boiler is BER. Under the terms of the policy, it would only be deemed 
BER, if determined by Aviva, using what it would cost them to repair. The independent 
statement doesnt include this detail and doesnt show that the boiler was BER to Aviva. 
Mr I has also said that Aviva should have done more to treat him fairly, as they were aware 
that hed had pneumonia previously and he was being left without heating. However, on both 
of the last two occasions an engineer attended, they left with the boiler working. I also 
havent seen any evidence that there was any further illness for Mr I after this point. 
I do think that Aviva could have done more to treat Mr I fairly. They have cancelled the policy 
due to access issues, despite the policy being in place for over five years and with previous 
services going ahead without any evidence of a discussion of access issues. I also dont 
think they did much to reassure Mr I as to the safety of the boiler, especially considering the 
evidence Mr I has provided as to the length of each visit. 
However, I think what Aviva have offered to put things right is reasonable. They have offered 
a total of £571.97. This includes a refund of three £84 services, which they say cant have 
been carried out sufficiently due to the access issues. They have also offered to refund the 
last premium of £119.97 and a further £200 compensation. I think this offer is fair and 
sufficiently compensates Mr I for the impact caused, including insufficient reassurance of the 
boilers safety. I dont think Aviva should refund any further premiums paid, as Mr I had the benefit of the cover in those years, as evidence by previous repairs including in July 2021. 
In summary, whilst I can see why Mr I feels that given the proximity to the initial visit, the 
engineer might have caused the boiler fault, I dont believe there is sufficient evidence that of 
any error or misdiagnosis. I also think that they were entitled to cancel the policy due to 
access issues. However, I dont think it was fair to do this after the policy had been in place 
for five years. What Aviva have offered to do fairly compensates Mr I for this in my view. To 
put things right I think they should refund Mr I for three services and give a refund of the last 
annual premium and compensation for the inconvenience of £200, a total of £571.97. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made by Aviva 
Insurance Limited to settle the complaint is fair. 
To put things right, Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr I £571.97, if they havent already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman