DRN-2963491
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of a 
claim made under a landlord insurance policy, and its handling of the claim.
What happened
In August 2019, a claim was submitted to AXA after an escape of water caused damage 
to Mr Hs rental property.
The estimated repair cost was thought to be around £22,000, though AXA ultimately only 
offered Mr H a settlement of £8,200. That was because AXA thought the damage had 
been happening for some time, and that much of it couldve been prevented.
Mr H complained to AXA about this, and its handling of the claim. AXA didnt change its 
claims decision, though it accepted thered been some minor delays in its handling of the 
claim. It offered Mr H £50 compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a complaint to 
this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2021. Heres what I said:
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to this service. Ive taken all of that into 
account  however Ive only included a short summary within this decision. This reflects 
the fact that our service, wherever possible, aims to be informal.
Our investigator has addressed AXAs concerns about the number of properties Mr H 
allegedly owns. I can only echo that I havent seen any evidence that Mr H would fall 
outside our jurisdiction as a commercial customer.
AXA has also raised a number of concerns about inconsistencies in Mr Hs evidence, as 
well as its view that he may have presented fabricated documents and doctored a photo 
as part of his claim.
I think AXA had legitimate concerns about some of the evidence and I accept it was 
appropriate for AXA to carry out further investigations so it could address those 
concerns. However, ultimately, AXA hasnt concluded that Mr H made a fraudulent 
claim, and so it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to consider this on AXAs 
behalf.
Ill now consider whether AXAs settlement figure was reasonable.
AXA explains that it didnt fully accept the claim presented to it. It says it wasnt 
satisfied with: - the amount being claimed; the damage being caused by a single 
event; inconsistencies in Mr Hs evidence; the strip out works taking place before the 
claim was authorised; and Mr Hs failure to comply with its enquiries  amongst some 
other issues.
Although Mr H had initially estimated repair costs to be around £39,000, AXAs surveyor 
thought a more reasonable figure would be around £22,000. However, AXA says Mr H 
later submitted a revised repair cost of £19,202.33 (excluding VAT).
In order to reach the £8,200 settlement, AXA made a deduction of £5,532.39 from the 
repair cost of £19,202.33. This was for the bathroom suite and kitchen units that were 
disposed of before they could be inspected. That left £13,669.94. After allowing for VAT, 
AXA then halved that total amount, leaving around £8,200.
The issue for me to decide is whether it was appropriate for AXA to pay, essentially, 50% 
of the repair costs.
The crux of the issue is that AXA thinks the damage took place over a number of years, 
yet this wasnt reported as a claim until August 2019. AXA thinks that, given the condition 
of the property at the time of the claim, it wouldve been obvious to anyone previously 
living there or anyone inspecting the property, that there was water damage. And so it 
thinks much of the damage couldve been prevented.
The policy says:
You must take reasonable steps to
1) Prevent or protect against injury loss or damage
I understand Mr Hs tenants moved out at the end of May/beginning of June 2019.
When AXAs loss adjuster visited the property in August 2019, she spoke with the 
contractor on site. The contractor advised her that the waste water from the shower tray 
hadnt been directed to the shower waste and instead was escaping beneath the shower 
tray.
As I understand it, the shower was installed several years earlier. It may have been the 
case that the waste water pipe was never connected to the shower tray and therefore 
water had potentially been escaping for many years. Both parties seem to accept this.
There are some inconsistencies with how the damage was discovered. Mr H says he 
initially discovered the damage, but the evidence from his contractor says that the 
contractor discovered it. Though both say that there was evidence of a problem in the 
bathroom because the vinyl floor was damaged. And that on further investigation, the 
contractor then established where the escape of water had originated. The contractor 
stripped out the bathroom to find the problem, and then also found water damage to the 
flooring of other rooms in the property.
Although AXA has concerns about the damage being caused by a single event, its 
accepted by AXA that waste water from the shower had been escaping under the flooring 
for many years. And so it doesnt seem unreasonable for that water to have caused 
significant damage throughout the property, given that its a ground floor flat.
When AXA carried out its initial inspection in August 2019, Mr Hs contractor had stripped 
out much of the flooring and dehumidifiers were in use to try and dry out the property. 
Whilst I can appreciate AXA wanted to see the damage for itself before any strip-out works 
took place, I think Mr H raises a reasonable point that the policy does allow for trace and 
access. His contractor may have gone beyond simply tracing the leak, but given the water 
damage to the rest of the property, it doesnt seem unreasonable that the contractor 
wanted to be sure there werent any other leaks causing damage. Photos were taken of 
the damage along the way, so I dont think AXA were prejudiced in that respect.Based on the condition of the property when AXA inspected it in August 2019, and that 
the leak had been going on for years, AXA thought it wouldve been apparent to anyone 
in the property that there was an issue. AXA therefore doesnt think that inspections 
were carried out at the property for a significant period of time before the damage was 
discovered.
Mr H strongly refutes AXAs view. He makes the point that the property was tenanted 
for many years, and the tenants hadnt raised any concerns about the leak or damp.
The estate manager of the building attended the property on 27 August 2019. She says 
the property was filthy, and that the contractor had to keep the front door closed because 
of the smell from within the property. The estate manager observed that some areas had 
been completely stripped out and dehumidifiers were in place. She also said she heard the 
contractor tell AXAs loss adjuster that the property was in a terrible state of disrepair and 
the bathroom floor was spongy to walk on (though I note the contractor denies saying 
this). The estate manager also observed mould on the bedroom walls, window and blinds 
for herself.
I think it needs to be taken into account that strip out works had already started and much 
of the flooring taken up to reveal the water damage when AXA and the estate manager 
visited the property. And so they werent seeing the property in the condition it had been in 
before the damage was first discovered. I think its therefore difficult for AXA to say that 
the damage would have previously been obvious to anyone in the property, particularly 
when the damage was hidden beneath the flooring.
Although there was apparently obvious damp in the bedroom (observed by the estate 
manager), its also the case that the property hadnt been lived in for around three months 
by that point. A lack of proper ventilation in the property over that time (combined with the 
issue underneath the flooring) may have led to the damp. Though the main point is that 
theres no evidence to support that the damp in the bedroom had been there for any 
significant length of time, and so I cant say that this ought to have put Mr H (or his 
tenants) on notice that there was a wider issue with the property.
Although AXA doesnt think the property was inspected for a significant length of time, Mr 
H has provided a schedule of inspections that took place by his property management 
company between 2002 and 2019. The last entry from May 2019 said the condition of 
the property wasnt good and would need to be cleaned and redecorated throughout. It 
didnt comment on any water damage or damp in the bathroom, and only said the WC 
area needed to be checked as the floor vinyl was split. And I note that several 
inspections took place in the months and years before that, again, none of which made 
reference to water damage or damp.
AXA has concerns about the authenticity of the property management companys 
evidence. It says theyd dissolved in 2017. However, I understand a new company was 
created and the same staff members continued the inspections at the property. I dont 
think AXA has shown that this document wasnt genuine.
AXA has referred to a photo of the shower area that it says Mr H showed its loss adjuster 
on site. This photo apparently showed that the shower cubicle had a thick line of black 
mould. AXA thinks this ought to have alerted anyone with experience of property 
ownership that there was a problem.
I havent seen this photo, but I dont think a line of black mould in a shower cubicle 
would necessarily make someone think there was an escape of water beneath the 
flooring. Bathrooms often have some mould, and the property management company acknowledged that the property needed to be cleaned and redecorated.
Taking all of that into account, it seems to me that AXA hasnt shown, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the damage ought to have been identified sooner and that it therefore 
only needs to pay 50% of the repair costs.
Although AXA had concerns about the amount being claimed, I note that Mr Hs original 
estimate was based on a very rough indication of what he thought the costs would be. 
AXA accepts that the revised repair cost was much closer to its own surveyors opinion 
of the costs, so I assume this is no longer an issue.
When Mr Hs contractor stripped out the property, he disposed of all the kitchen units and 
the bathroom suite. AXA thought those items could have been reused, and so it thinks Mr 
H prejudiced its position by disposing of the items before they could be inspected. I would 
agree, and I note Mr H accepts that his contractor was too hasty in throwing out these 
items. That being the case, I think it would be appropriate for AXA to deduct the 
replacement cost of these items from the settlement.
Although Mr H wanted AXA to pay for three months loss of rent, AXA didnt agree to 
this. It said that Mr H had planned to refurbish the property before putting it on the 
market.
Mr H had said that he intended to sell the property after replacing some of the fixtures 
and fittings, though hes also said that he intended to rent out the property as a short-
term let whilst it was being sold. I think it would therefore be appropriate for AXA to 
consider the claim for loss of rent, in line with the policy terms.
Mr H has also complained about AXAs handling of the claim. As Ive said, I think AXA 
had some legitimate concerns about the claim, and it was appropriate for it to look into 
this before making a claims decision. This did naturally delay the claim. However, AXA 
did accept it had caused some minor unnecessary delays, and it paid Mr H £50 
compensation for that. I think that was reasonable.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Mr H responded with the following points:
AXAs initial offer was only £3,000, and he thinks this needs to be addressed 
because he says it shows how unreasonable AXA was from the start.
His initial estimation of costs included the costs of repairs above ground and 
those below ground, but AXA ignored the latter. He thinks his estimation was 
correct.
He wants AXA to be held to account for making allegations of fraud, when there 
was no fraud.
He accepts his contractor was too hasty with the disposal of the kitchen units. Mr 
H says the contractor thought the lower units needed replacing, so he thinks a 
fair reflection of the costs would be 50%.
He says the shower unit and cubicle couldnt be reused because they were built 
into the wall. He thinks that with a deduction of wear and tear, a fair amount 
would be 50%.He says the toilet and basic could have been reused and so he accepts 100% of 
the cost of those items. 
Hes sent in a schedule of costs amounting to over £60,000.
AXA responded to say it disagreed with my provisional decision, and made the following 
main points:
It thinks the provisional decision appears to accept Mr Hs submissions at face 
value, without any contemperaneous or supporting evidence. It points out that 
Mr H refused to meet with AXAs loss adjuster, subjected AXA to a barrage of 
emails and online abuse, claimed to have intimate knowledge of his tenants 
washing habits, failed to provide any convincing evidence of the property having 
been inspected, and misled AXA and doctored a document and photo in order to 
suit his own narrative. It says these actions arent the traits of an open and 
honest individual. 
It has questioned why I rejected the view of the estate manager and concluded 
that the damage was not obvious to anyone living in the property.
It repeated that in an attempt to reach an amicable settlement, it offered to pay Mr 
H £8,200, and that it considers this sum accurately reflects the actual damage and 
repair costs which would have been caused by the escape of water had it been 
identified and notified in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H makes the point that AXAs initial offer was £3,000. After further discussions, it then 
increased that to £8,200. Ive already explained in my provisional decision why I dont think 
that settlement amount was fair. 
Mr H is understandably unhappy that AXA thought there may have been fraud, however, 
ultimately AXA hasnt invoked the fraud clause and turned down the claim for that reason. I 
therefore havent considered whether or not there was any fraud. However, as a prudent 
insurer, I think AXA has a responsibility to carry out proper and thorough investigations into 
claims where it has concerns over fraud. I therefore dont think that AXA did anything wrong 
by looking into this. 
As Mr Hs contractor disposed of the kitchen units and bathroom suite before these could be 
inspected, I remain of the opinion that AXAs position was prejudiced in this respect. Whilst 
Mr H says his contractor thought the lower units needed replacing and he says the shower 
unit and cubicle couldnt be reused, AXA was prevented from confirming this by inspecting 
the items. I therefore remain satisfied that AXA can deduct the replacement cost of those 
items from the settlement.
Although Mr H has sent this service a schedule of costs, he would need to send AXA the 
relevant invoices and other supporting information so it can pay an appropriate settlement, in 
line with the policy terms. Whilst I appreciate Mr H wants me to include a monetary figure for 
AXA to pay in this decision, that wouldnt be appropriate when AXA hasnt yet had the 
opportunity to consider the invoices, or the loss of rent claim. I also note that Mr H has included a figure relating to his own time spent on the matter. To be clear, I wouldnt expect 
AXA to pay him for this.
AXA has raised several concerns about Mr H and his conduct throughout the claim. 
However, as I explained in my provisional decision, AXA hasnt concluded that Mr H made a 
fraudulent claim. Instead it accepted he had a valid claim and paid him a settlement amount. 
My decision is therefore only focused on whether that settlement amount was fair, based on 
the available evidence regarding the escape of water incident. 
It isnt for this service to decide on an insurers behalf that theres been fraud. If an insurer 
believes a fraudulent claim has been made, it should invoke the fraud clause under the 
policy terms. If a policyholder disagrees with an insurers findings about that, this service can 
of course make a decision on whether we agree with the insurer that there has been fraud, 
and take into account all the concerns the insurer has raised. As AXA hasnt turned down 
the claim for fraud, or limited the settlement for that reason, it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to consider the concerns it has raised about Mr H. 
AXA has accepted that Mr H has a valid claim and that the escape of water incident 
happened. Under the policy terms, Mr H was required to take reasonable steps to prevent or 
protect against loss or damage. He was also required to notify AXA as soon as practical of 
any circumstances which might lead to a claim. 
For AXA to limit the settlement, the onus therefore falls on AXA to show that Mr H ought to 
have known about the damage and that he failed to do anything about it, and that this 
caused the damage to get worse. 
AXA reached that conclusion based on the estate managers observations, which were 
made after the property had been empty for three months and strip out works had taken 
place. Ive already given my thoughts about that in my provisional decision. The crucial point 
is that AXA hasnt shown what condition the property was in before the damage was 
discovered. In contrast to this, Mr H has provided evidence from a property management 
company which shows that regular inspections took place at the property in the years and 
months leading up to the discovery of the damage, but there was no reference to water 
damage or damp. 
AXA says it thinks the third-party document which related to the inspections at the property 
was fabricated, because it was produced after the company had dissolved. 
Ive looked at the document again. The covering letter includes the old company number. I 
agree that this seems odd, but given that the company were still operating at the time the 
letter was written, and under the same name, this may well have been an error on the 
companys part. I dont think this shows that its more likely than not that Mr H (or the 
company) fabricated the document and that the evidence should be discounted. 
Consequently, I remain of the view that AXA hasnt shown that Mr H should have known 
about the damage before he found it. Im therefore not persuaded it was entitled to limit the 
settlement to the amount the repairs would have cost, had the incident been discovered 
sooner. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay the remaining repair costs in line with the policy terms, though it can deduct the cost of 
the replacement kitchen units and bathroom suite from the settlement. It should also 
consider Mr Hs claim for loss of rent under the policy terms.Interest should be added to the settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum, calculated 
from the date of the claim until the date of settlement*.
I further require AXA to pay Mr H £50 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman