DRN-3418495
The complaint
Mrs U complains that RCI Financial Services Limited applied unfair charges at the end of her 
hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mrs U entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial Services in February 2018. 
The agreement was for 37 months and at the end of the agreement Mrs U opted to hand 
back the car. She then received notification that she owed £3,000 for damage charges and 
excess mileage. Mrs U says that the damage was normal wear and tear and that the 
mileage allowance on the agreement was wrong. She also said the additional mileage was 
due to the agreement being extended because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
RCI Financial Services issued its final response in October 2021. It said the excess mileage 
charges were part of Mrs Us agreement and wouldnt be reduced. It said the damage 
charges had been applied correctly but as a gesture of goodwill offered to reduce this to 
£700.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She considered the damage and thought this 
fell outside of normal wear and tear and so didnt think the damage charges had been 
applied unfairly. In regard to the excess mileage charge she said the agreement clearly set 
out the annual mileage allowance and the charges that would be applied if this was 
exceeded. 
Mrs U didnt agree with our investigators view. She accepted the reduced damage charges 
but didnt think it fair she had to pay the full excess mileage charge. She reiterated that she 
had requested an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 miles. She said she discussed with 
the mileage allowance with the sales adviser but was then taken to another person in a 
different office to complete the documents. She said she didnt check the mileage amount as 
she assumed this would reflect her previous discussion. She says that had she had the 
correct mileage allowance she would have only had excess mileage of around 5,000 to 
6,000 miles and noted the difficulties in having the car collected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs U is upset that she incurred charges at the end of her agreement 
but for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that these were applied 
incorrectly or unfairly.
When a car is returned at the end of an agreement and inspection will take place to assess 
whether there is any damage and whether this can be considered normal wear and tear. If it 
falls outside of normal wear and tear, charges will usually be applied. I have looked at the 
inspection report carried out in May 2021 and considered the damage reported against the 
industry guidelines provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
Having done so I find the damage falls outside of what would be accepted as normal wear 
and tear and so I do not find I can say RCI Financial Services did anything wrong by 
applying charges. RCI Financial Services reduced the damage charge as a gesture of 
goodwill to £700. Having considered this I do not find that the damage charges have been 
applied unfairly and I note Mrs U has said she accepts the reduced damage charge.
The outstanding issue relates to the excess mileage charge. I can understand why Mrs U is 
upset at the charge that has been applied and note her comments about the discussion she 
had regarding the mileage allowance. However, the agreement she signed clearly sets out 
the annual mileage allowance as 6,000 miles. The mileage allowance is also set out in the 
pre-contract credit information and Mrs U signed the sales process  dealer confirmation 
saying that she had received and had time to consider the pre-contract information. 
Therefore, I find the information about the mileage allowance was clearly set out and I do not 
find I have enough to say that this was incorrectly recorded.
As Mrs Us annual mileage allowance was 6,000 miles the total for her agreement was 
18,000 miles. When the car was returned the mileage recorded was 35,647 miles. Mrs Us 
agreement set out that excess mileage would be charged at 8 pence a mile and based on 
the mileage figures the calculation of the excess mileage charge is correct. I note Mrs Us 
comments about the delay in the car being collected but RCI Financial Services has said 
that contact was made in March and Mrs U said she wasnt able to discuss collection at that 
time. A further contact attempt was made later in the month, but a collection wasnt able to 
be arranged. A letter was then sent advising the collection was overdue and collection was 
then arranged for April, but this was cancelled. The car was collected on 11 May. So, while I 
appreciate there was a delay in the collection of the car, this wasnt due to RCI Financial 
Services and as Mrs U had use of the car for that period I do not find that the excess 
mileage charge is required to be reduced because of this.
In conclusion, I think the offer made by RCI Financial Services to reduce the damage charge 
is reasonable and I do not require it to do anything further in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman