DRN-3055995
The complaint
Mr B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) delayed his request to transfer 
shares coming from another broker to his wife causing him a financial loss.
Mr B would like compensated for not being able to use his wifes capital gains allowance and 
for the trouble and upset caused by the delay.
What happened
On 27 January 2020, Mr B contacted HSDL to check if it could accept a transfer of shares 
held with an American broker who I will call Company A. Mr B wanted to transfer some 
shares to his wife so that she could use her annual capital gains allowance.
The agent at HSDL confirmed that HSDL could accept this and said that they would start the 
transfer request as the receiving broker and asked Mr B to complete a broker transfer 
request. 
Mr B returned the broker transfer request form, and this was received by HSDL on the 5 
February 2020. HSDL sent this to Company A but didnt send Mr B other forms required by 
Company A to allow them to proceed with the request. The agent at HSDL had given 
incorrect information that only one form was required when Company A required additional 
forms to start the process.
Between 19 February and 4 March 2020, HSDL sent chaser letters to Company A as they 
had not received any response to their request. 
HSDL contacted Mr B on 5 March 2020 and Mr B provided contact information at Company 
A.
On 18 March 2020, HSDL contacted Company A. The agent at Company A said they had no 
record of any transfer request from Mr B and said that Mr B would need to visit its website 
and complete a delivery to non-US bank form.
On 25 March 2020, Company A sent an email to HSDL confirming two stock transfer 
requests. HSDL replied on 27 March 2020 asking Company A to provide more information 
so it could locate the transfer request in question.
Between 30 March and 9 April 2020, emails were exchanged between HSDL and Company 
A. HSDL had asked Company A to change ownership of the shares before it sent the shares 
as they couldnt do this upon receipt.
On 9 April 2020, HSDL emailed Company A to ask if it had changed ownership for the 
shares that were being transferred to Mr Bs account. 
Between 9 April and 25 August 2020, HSDL sent Company A multiple emails chasing for a 
response and progress report.
On 31 August 2020, the transfer of shares was completed.
Mr B complained to HSDL about the time that it had taken to transfer the shares. HSDL 
investigated Mr Bs complaint and upheld his complaint. They offered Mr B £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay.
Mr B felt that his financial loss had been greater than the amount offered by HSDL but 
accepted the payment of £200.
Unhappy with HSDL final decision, Mr B referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated his complaint. The investigator felt that HSDL had not acted fairly. 
The investigator asked HSDL to increase the amount for the trouble and upset caused to 
£350.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much the same reasons. I will be upholding the complaint as I agree with the view reached 
by the investigator and I think that the amount suggested for trouble and upset caused is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
The facts of the complaint are known and understood by both parties and HSDL have 
agreed that Mr B did not receive the service he should have. Its not my intention to go over 
the facts in detail. Instead, I will look at HSDLs role and to what extent they delayed the 
transfer which caused Mr B to miss out on using his wifes capital gains allowance.
From reading the available documentation, I think that that HSDL made two errors early in 
the process. HSDLs agent gave incorrect information to Mr B on 27 January 2020 and on 5 
February 2020, they didnt provide Mr B with additional documentation that would have 
allowed him to give Company A consent to proceed with the transfer.
Mr Bs complaint is in two parts  that he missed out on using a capital gains allowance and 
for the trouble and upset caused. I need to consider if HSDLs actions contributed to a loss 
incurred by Mr B.
In the investigators view, they said that HSDLs actions caused a delay from 27 January 
until 18 March 2020 and I agree with this. Had HSDL provided correct information and 
documentation to Mr B, he would have been in a position from Company A to proceed with 
the transfer request earlier.
Its not clear what timescales Company A normally operate to as the transfer request was 
active during the COVID-19 Pandemic and there was no action taken by them from April 
until August 2020. I think that on the balance of probability, this played a part in the delay of 
Mr Bs transfer, but I cant hold HSDL responsible for this as I can see that they made 
multiple requests during this time for updates.
In his submission to the service, Mr B has said that shares were sold in the 2020/21 tax 
year, so Mr B or his wife didnt incur a tax liability in the 2019/2020 tax year. As I understand it, Mr B hasnt incurred any financial loss at this point and may still be able to use future 
capital gains allowances. 
As HSDL made repeated attempts to ask Company A for updates after the transfer request 
was accepted, I am not going to hold HSDL responsible for Mr B missing out on the 
opportunity to use his wifes capital gains allowance and Im not going to ask them to do 
anything further on this point.
HSDL offered Mr B £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Although Mr B 
accepted this amount, he felt that the compensation amount should be higher. In the 
investigators view, they thought that an amount of £350 was appropriate.
In his submission to the service, Mr B has said that because his day rate is £1,500, the 
amount should be increased to £500. The service doesnt consider compensation amounts 
based on a persons earnings, but we will look at the impact the error has had.
I agree with the amount of £350 suggested by the investigator. This considers the fact that 
HSDLs errors caused Mr B frustration and he had to contact Company A to ensure the 
transfer could proceed. Mr B also contacted HSDL on multiple occasions and this caused 
inconvenience. I also think that as the transfer was not proceeding as Mr B would have liked, 
this would have caused him some distress.
  
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should increase the amount of compensation due to Mr B to 
£350 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
If Halifax Share Dealing Limited have already paid Mr B the initial amount of £200, they 
should pay an additional £150.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman