DRN-1730583
 
The complaint
 Mrs W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened 
Mrs W took out a credit card in July 2005. At the same time she was sold PPI to protect her 
credit card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Mrs W disagrees. Shes mainly concerned 
that PPI was added to her account without her knowledge and that the costs, benefits and 
policy terms werent clearly explained. Shes also worried that because she worked less than 
16 hours per week at the time this meant she couldnt benefit from having PPI. And she told 
us she didn't need PPI as she had good sick pay benefits through work.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W applied for this credit card with PPI by filling in a postal application. Its completely 
understandable that Mrs W mightve forgotten exactly what happened so long ago. But the 
way the application form is set out makes it clear that it was up to Mrs W to say if she 
wanted to take out PPI with her credit card. 
Mrs W ticked the box next to where it says on the application form: I wish to purchase 
Optional Capital One Payment Protection Insurance.
And shes also signed here (in addition to signing her completed application form) to confirm 
that she wanted to have PPI. 
So I think Capital One made Mrs W aware that the PPI was available as an option with her 
credit card and it was added to her account when she chose to take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for her. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mrs W enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for her.
Mrs W was eligible for the policy when she took it out. 
PPI covered Mrs W in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.Ive taken into account that Mrs W wouldve had full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for 
the next 6 months. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and in full for longer - up to 
12 months for each successful claim. So it provided better protection than Mrs W wouldve 
had if she was off work sick or disabled and shed just been relying on her sick pay through 
work. 
And the policy wouldve paid out for 12 months per claim if Mrs W lost her job unexpectedly 
and she was out of work.  
Ive taken into account what Mrs W told us about the part-time hours she was working and 
I've checked the policy document. As far as I can see theres no requirement to work a 
minimum number of hours and Mrs W met the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think 
theres any reason why Mrs W couldnt have claimed on the policy in all the circumstances 
she might reasonably have expected if shed needed to. 
Based on everything shes told us, I think Mrs W couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
Its possible some information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mrs Ws case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to have PPI.
I dont think the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs W when she bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Mrs W hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And 
she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to, so it seems Mrs W wanted this 
type of cover at the time. Looked at overall, I think Mrs W still wouldve decided to buy the 
policy if shed been better informed. The policy gave her worthwhile protection in her 
particular situation. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.Susan Webb
Ombudsman