DRN-3166520
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc blocked some of her transactions and hasnt made 
reasonable adjustments to take into account her disabilities.
What happened
In mid-2019 Mrs M was trying to make some large value payments from her Santander 
accounts, which were blocked after being flagged by the banks fraud prevention systems.
Mrs M was unhappy the payments were blocked and felt the bank failed to take account of 
her disabilities in their subsequent interactions. She also feels, more generally, that 
Santander ought to do more to help her  including giving her a single point of contact  and 
its failure to make reasonable adjustments amounts to discrimination under the Equality Act 
2010.
Santander addressed Mrs Ms complaint about the blocked transactions and related 
interactions in a final response letter dated 9 August 2019. This letter also explained that 
Mrs M had six months to refer her complaint to this service if she remained unhappy with the 
banks response. But Mrs M came to us after that deadline had passed. The bank 
subsequently consented to us looking at the complaint and there has been communication 
with both parties about Mrs Ms current situation, including what extra assistance the bank 
can provide now. 
Our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong in 2019 and she thought the 
support Santander had offered Mrs M since then was reasonable, given the information 
Mrs M had shared about her circumstances. Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint has come to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions the investigator has reached given the 
particular circumstances of this case. I note, in particular, that:
Mrs M believes Santander has, for some time, been failing in its duty to make reasonable 
adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Act into account when deciding 
this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive, ultimately, made my decision 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
I dont think it was unreasonable of Santander to have blocked the payments Mrs M 
wanted to make from her accounts in mid-2019. The bank has a responsibility to prevent 
fraud and the payments were high value and out of character given the way Mrs M 
usually operated her accounts. Ive seen notes, and heard some recordings, of the calls 
that took place around that time. And, overall, I think the bank exhibited patience, 
understanding and a desire to help Mrs M sort out the problem. 
I dont think theres any dispute that Mrs M has disabilities  shes provided various 
letters from medical professionals and mental health support agencies about this, some 
of which weve also shared with Santander. And the bank has a duty under the Equality 
Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments in order to remove barriers to using their 
services. But there are occasions when a consumer will ask for an adjustment which isnt 
reasonable because it isnt practical for a bank, and so we wouldnt expect the bank to 
make that adjustment. In this particular case, Mrs M seems to want the bank to provide 
her with a single point of contact, but hasnt explained why she thinks this will help. And, 
having considered everything thats been presented by the parties in this case as well as 
our own interactions with Mrs M, Im not sure that would make much (if any) difference to 
her ongoing relationship and interaction with the bank. Santander has also explained 
why that isnt practical  weve shared its reasons with Mrs M  and I agree with the 
banks position. 
Santander has recorded details about Mrs Ms disabilities on her customer profile. Also 
that staff should be patient as she may need more time to complete requests over the 
telephone and in writing. Other than asking for a single point of contact, Mrs M has been 
vague and somewhat inconsistent in her submissions about what support she needs. For 
example, shes repeatedly called the bank to try and discuss certain issues and events, 
but then says she cant deal with matters verbally. Shes asked us to follow up 
conversations in writing, but also says she has difficulty processing and absorbing the 
written word  this may relate to the memory problems shes also described. Weve 
shared with Mrs M the extra support that Santander can offer, for example, through its 
Supported Banking initiative. But Mrs M has refused all those offers of assistance, 
without explaining why theyre not suitable, and has also refused to answer some of the 
questions weve posed to try to get a better understanding of her circumstances in order 
to assess what adjustments might be necessary and possible/practical. Overall, while I 
appreciate Mrs M faces some challenges, I cant fairly say the bank has treated her 
unfairly or needs  at this point in time  to make any additional adjustments to the 
service it provides her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman