DRN-3670995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy.
Mr M got in touch with Fairmead after he noticed damage to the chimney pots on the roof 
following bad weather. It sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Based on the surveyors 
findings, Fairmead declined the claim. It said the damage hadnt been caused by a storm 
and was the result of deteriorated and defective mortar. Mr M didnt think this was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points and my findings:
The policy covers damage caused by storm, which it says means wind speeds of at 
least 47mph. Mr M said the damage happened in February 2022 and weather 
records show wind speeds of up to 63mph at that time. Im satisfied that means there 
were storm conditions.
The damage is to the chimney pots, surrounding mortar and chimney stack. The 
surveyor said the stack was bowing in places, the mortar holding the pots in place 
was defective and vegetation growth suggested the chimney area had been in this 
condition for some time. They didnt think the storm had caused this damage.
Im persuaded by the surveyors comments. The photos clearly support what theyve 
said. Whilst movement to chimney pots and stacks is a common problem following 
strong winds, the evidence shows this damage had likely happened prior to the 
storm. The mortar is significantly deteriorated and broken and its condition, together 
with the vegetation growth, suggests its been this way for a considerable period of 
time. I understand Mr M noted possible movement to the pots in 2020.
I havent seen any alternative opinions about the cause of damage from surveyors or 
roofers that might call into question what Fairmead has said.
Overall Im satisfied it was fair for Fairmead to decline the claim. Whilst there were 
storm conditions, the evidence doesnt show the strong winds caused the damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman