DRN-4001036
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made a number of errors when dealing with 
her credit card and current accounts since the passing of her late husband, and that these 
errors caused her significant distress.
What happened
When Mrs Hs late husband passed in 2020, she promptly told Barclays of this. Mrs H also 
told Barclays she was the carer for her late husband before he passed, that her income had 
now significantly reduced, and that she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Mrs H complained to Barclays that it had been sending letters recording that it was Mrs H 
whod passed away. Mrs H highlighted Barclays had incorrectly re-instated a direct debit 
without her instruction and that Barclays had issued a default notice on her credit card 
account. Barclays accepted that it had made several errors and paid Mrs H £175 for the 
distress this had caused her. Barclays also refunded a late payment fee and interest it had 
applied to the credit card account. Barclays confirmed the account was now with its 
specialist support team  a team that was in place to assist customers facing ill health, 
personal and financial difficulties - and that it had provided feedback to staff members whod 
issued the incorrect letters and made the errors on the account.
Mrs H complained to Barclays later the same year. Barclays said it had dealt with some of 
the complaints in its final response in August but apologised it had sent text messages to 
Mrs H about missed payments after saying it wouldnt. Barclays confirmed to Mrs H that her 
account was formally closed, and it may still be transferred to a debt collection agency, as 
detailed in the account terms and conditions. Barclays confirmed it had issued a default 
notice. In a follow-up to response in December, Barclays told Mrs H that in relation to the 
data subject access request shed made, it had sent copies of the calls it had recorded. 
Barclays said it hadnt identified any further errors and that its previous responses had 
provided a reasonable remedy.
Mrs H brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator explained that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service doesnt deal with complaints regarding data subject access requests or data the 
business had provided, and that these are dealt with by the information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). The Investigator explained that Barclays were entitled to pass Mrs Hs account 
to a debt recovery agent, and this is outlined in the account terms and conditions if a 
customer had missed payments. The Investigator thought it was reasonable that when 
Barclays established Mrs Hs expenditure exceeded her outgoings, it passed the account to 
a specialist team to support her.
However, the Investigator thought that number of repeated errors Barclays made required 
Mrs H to contact Barclays to try and resolve them. And, that the payment of £175 Barclays 
has already paid Mrs H for distress and inconvenience didnt take into account the impact 
the errors would have had on Mrs H as she was grieving the passing of her late husband. 
The Investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay Mrs H a further 
£125 to reflect the impact on Mrs H in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs H will be disappointed, but Ive decided Barclays should pay her a 
further £125 for the impact of the poor service in the circumstances of this complaint. I want 
to re-assure Mrs H that Ive read all of her comments and, although I wont comment on 
everything she has said, Ive taken the relevant comments into account.
Mrs H has confirmed that the issue she raised about the data Barclays provided to her after 
her data subject access request has been addressed by the ICO, so I wont be commenting 
on this issue.
Ive seen that when Mrs H told Barclays that she was experiencing some financial difficulties 
after her late husband passed, Barclays passed her account to a specialist team. This is 
something I would expect Barclays to do. Its not disputed that Mrs Hs outgoings were 
higher than her income or that there were discussions about what would happen next. Mrs H 
says she was told her accounts wouldnt be passed to a debt collection agent. but Ive seen 
that in Barclays response to Mrs H in November it explained to Mrs H that the account may 
be transferred to a debt recovery agent if her account was formally closed  and that 
although Barclays didnt expect payments on the account, the balance remained payable. 
The same letter confirmed to Mrs H that her account had been formally closed. So, although 
I empathise with Mrs H that she was upset Barclays passed the account to a debt recovery 
agent, Im satisfied Barclays didnt do anything wrong here.
When Mrs H told Barclays of her financial difficulties it suspended further interest and 
charges on the account. This is what I would expect Barclays to do. And when Mrs H 
complained in August, Barclays confirmed it had reversed interest and charges on the July 
credit card statement. I think this demonstrates that Barclays had taken reasonable steps to 
assist Mrs H at this time.
Im not required to make a decision on the some of the complaints Mrs H has made as 
Barclays accepts it made several errors and has confirmed its provided feedback to staff 
members who were involved in these errors. These happened when Mrs H told Barclays that 
her late husband had passed, and it incorrectly recorded Mrs H had passed - not her late 
husband - and it sent out text messages about missed payments. Instead, I have considered 
whether or not the remedy Barclays paid to Mrs H was a fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonably clear from the communications Mrs H sent to Barclays that she is 
particularly distressed by the repeated errors that resulted in her having to contact Barclays 
on more than one occasion to tell them she hadnt passed. Although this would have been 
upsetting for any customer of Barclays, Im satisfied it would have caused Mrs H more upset 
because she was still grieving the passing of her late husband  it was insensitive, even if it 
wasnt intentional.  And, although I acknowledge Barclays has already paid Mrs H £175 to 
reflect the distress these errors caused, Ive decided Barclays should pay Mrs H a further 
£125 to reflect the additional impact these errors had on Mrs H in the circumstances at the 
time, and it is in line with what our website suggests is a reasonable remedy in a complaint 
like this.My final decision
Ive decided that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs H a further £125 for the distress 
and inconvenience the errors Ive detailed above caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman