DRN-2238093
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) handled his credit card 
account. He says Halifax sent warnings about an unpaid balance on the card to the wrong 
address. Mr L feels a default Halifax put on his credit file was unfair as a result, and hes 
concerned that his personal information wasnt kept safe, in line with data protection laws. 
Mr L is also unhappy that a credit reference agency (CRA) later had an incorrect record of 
late payments on the card. He feels this error must have been caused by Halifax giving the 
CRA incorrect information.
And Mr L is unhappy about what Halifax said when speaking to him about his complaints.
What happened
Mr Ls June 2019 complaint about the default on his credit report centres around two 
addresses. Im going to call these address A and address B in this decision, to keep Mr 
Ls personal details confidential.
When responding to the complaint, Halifax could see Mr L had told them to change his 
address from address A to address B in 2014. They could also see that his address had 
been changed back to address A in September 2015, but they couldnt see why.
From March to July 2017, Halifax wrote to Mr L at address A to tell him he owed money on 
his credit card. Halifax then added a record to Mr Ls credit file saying the card was in 
default, before closing the account in November 2017.
Mr L says he found out about the default record in June 2019, when he was finding it difficult 
to get approved for credit. He paid what was owed on the card, but felt the default applied in 
2017 was unfair because Halifaxs warning letters were sent to his old address. Halifax 
accepted Mr Ls complaint, as they couldnt see why they were using address A to contact 
him.
To try to put things right, Halifax had the default removed from Mr Ls credit record. They 
also told Mr L theyd recorded the error and potential data breach as required by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). And they offered Mr L a £350 payment to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset caused. 
The other main issue for Mr L was that late payments were recorded for the card on his 
credit record. These started in December 2018, even though the account had been closed 
13 months earlier, in November 2017. In response, Halifax said the details theyd given the 
credit reference agency were correct, and didnt include any adverse reporting for 2018 or 
2019. They said the record of late payments up to the closure of the card in 2017 was 
accurate, as Mr L had a debt on the card that hadnt been paid.
I looked at these points, and I listened to the calls Mr L had with Halifax about these issues. I 
set out in a provisional decision why I found Halifax had done enough to put right the impact 
that using an old address had on Mr L. I also explained I couldnt see any mistakes in the 
data passed to the CRA, and hadnt heard anything unreasonable in what Halifax said on the 
phone to Mr L. I didnt uphold the complaints.
I asked Halifax and Mr L to let me know if there was anything further they wanted me to 
consider. Neither has responded by the 23 September date that I set for a response. Ive 
looked at this case again, and seen nothing that changes my previous provisional decision. 
So Ive decided to repeat it here as my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The address and default issue
In their response to this part of the complaint, Halifax couldnt see why theyd changed Mr 
Ls address back to address A in 2015. Nothing Ive seen explains that either, so it does 
seem there was a mistake by Halifax. The question for me is what the impact of that mistake 
was on Mr Ls ability to manage the card.
Halifax have told me about a complaint Mr L brought to us in 2017, noting that he used 
address A as his contact address at that time. Ive asked Mr L about this, but he thinks he 
must have previously told us his old address by mistake. Hes said he had no link to 
address A since 2015.
Looking at that earlier complaint, Mr L sent a letter to Halifax in October 2016 that said he 
felt he was managing his credit cards well. He said he made regular payments towards what 
was owed with a direct debit, and when he visited a branch of Halifax. I note that this ability 
to manage the card would have been despite Halifax having Mr Ls contact address as 
address A since 2015.
This tells me Mr L wasnt just using letters from Halifax to look after the account  he 
received information in the branch and automated his payments towards the card. In my 
view, this shows the impact of letters being sent to the wrong address was limited. Mr L 
himself said he was managing the account well in October 2016, despite not being in a 
position to get the letters sent to address A then either.
It seems likely to me that some other change caused Mr L to lose track of what was owed on 
the card and then stop making payments towards it. But I cant see what that was. 
Importantly though, I cant see it was some failing by Halifax that caused things to change.
With that said, I agree that if the warning letters in 2017 had been sent to address B, Mr L 
would have been better informed about a payment being due on the card. So the apparent 
mistake was not entirely without impact, even though it alone didnt lead to the default on 
Mr Ls credit record.
The steps taken by Halifax do enough in my view to acknowledge that position. The default 
is gone from Mr Ls record, but the late payment markers remain. That reflects that Mr L 
wasnt managing the card as well as hed done in 2016, and didnt pay what was owed in 
2017. But it also reflects that he might have done more to avoid a full default, if the address 
had been accurate and hed seen Halifaxs letters.
Im also satisfied that any breach of data protection laws is suitably addressed by Halifax 
following the ICOs requirements. It would be for that office to deal with any issues Mr L has 
with that process. While I appreciate he may be concerned that his personal details were being sent to an old address, it doesnt appear thats led to any sort of identity theft incidents, 
or impact on Mr Ls reputation.
The £350 acknowledges that concern, and that the address mistake contributed to some of 
the trouble and upset Mr L has described in his complaint, but wasnt the sole reason for it. 
So no further remedy is needed from Halifax for this part of the complaint.
The late payments
Halifaxs response to this part of the complaint was that theyd sent the correct details to the 
CRA, so they werent responsible for the errors. They also noted two other CRAs, who they 
said were sent identical details, had accurate records for Mr L.
I appreciate Mr Ls point, that CRAs get their information from the bank, so if theres an error 
that must have come from the bank too. But its also possible the CRA could have 
introduced an error when transferring the data theyd received on to their systems.
Im looking here at whether theres evidence that Halifax caused the error on Mr Ls credit 
record. Halifax have shown us screenshots of the computer record they shared with the CRA 
in June and August 2019. The two are different, in that the August record showed Mr L had 
paid off a balance of £325 to settle the account on 19 June 2019.
Both screenshots include a section marked Status, which Halifax tells me is where late 
payments are recorded. Numbers are used to represent each months payment. Zero means 
a payment was made. If a payment was missed, a 1 is put in the status. If payments 
werent made for two consecutive months, a 2 is recorded. This continues up to six months 
(2 to 6 being recorded). After that, the account is usually placed in default, meaning 
payments stop being requested each month.
Mr Ls status looked like this on both records (Ive added the yellow highlighting):
000000 000000 000000 000006 543210 000000
000000 000000 000000 000000 000000 000000
Therere 23 zeros before the 6. This tells me Halifax told the CRA in June and August 2019 
that thered been 23 months without a missed payment. The missed payments recorded by 
the numbers one to six therefore come from 24 months earlier  2017.
While I recognise Mr Ls credit record showed late payments from December 2018 to 
June 2019, that doesnt accurately reflect what it looks like Halifax had told the CRA. In 
terms of the service provided by Halifax, Im satisfied theyve accurately reported Mr Ls 
handling of the account. And it was reasonable for them to then tell the CRA that the data 
theyd provided was accurate, as it looks like it was.
As I cant see they caused the problem, Halifax dont need to do anything further for this part 
of the complaint.
The phone calls in June and December 2019
Finally Ive listened to two phone calls which Mr L was unhappy about. In the June 2019 one, 
he feels he was unjustly said to have sworn. Ive listened to the call and I can understand 
how the call taker from Halifax could hear what Mr L said as a swear word. Having heard 
that, I find it reasonable for the call taker to then ask Mr L not to swear.In the other call, Mr L felt Halifax accepted the late payments issue was caused by them. Ive 
listened to what was said. The call handler clearly said an investigation of the matter was 
ongoing, and they didnt know what the cause of the error was. That seems to have been an 
accurate and open explanation by Halifax, so I find nothing unreasonable in this call either.
So again, as Ive not found any errors by Halifax, they dont need to do anything more in 
respect of these complaint points.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaints.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman