DRN-3784690
The complaint
X, a limited company complains that Stripe Payments UK Limited misled it into buying a 
service that wasnt suitable for its needs.
X wants Stripe to apologise, explain what happened and pay compensation. X is 
represented in its complaint by Mr M, a director.
What happened
In 2021, X decided to move to Stripe from its current merchant service provider that I will 
refer to as G. Mr M says that X was attracted to Stripe because it thought it offered the 
same level of customisation as G but at a better rate.
X opted to pay a monthly fee to Stripe to custom brand statements, payment pages and 
emails. But once the integration with Stripes API had taken place, X was unhappy to note 
that its account was displayed as Stripe re X rather than just Xs name. X was concerned, 
due to previous experience, that this might lead to chargebacks from customers and asked 
Stripe to remove its name.
X was also unhappy that there was a problem with Stripe setting up its account which wasnt 
resolved until April 2021 with the help of Stripes bank.
Stripe said it couldnt remove its name from the Service User Number (SUN) as the service 
user had to be identified on the direct debit instruction (DDI). Stripe did approach the bank 
involved, but the bank said that the SUN must include Stripes name.
After X complained, Stripe agreed that its documentation could have been clearer and 
offered to process £25,000 of card payments at no fee to X.
X was unhappy with the proposed outcome as it had spent many hours of developer time 
trying to make the service work for it.
The investigator didnt recommend that Xs complaint be upheld. He didnt think that Stripe 
had misrepresented its service to X. The investigator thought that Stripes offer of fee-free 
processing and refund of £50 was a fair way to resolve Xs complaint.
X disagreed with the investigators recommendation. Mr M thought that Stripe did give X a 
false statement of fact. He said Stripes dashboard says that for a monthly fee Your 
business name will be shown on your customers bank statements, Stripe Checkout and 
customer emails for Direct Debits. Mr M said it was possible to remove Stripes name from 
the SUN.
After considering all the available evidence and arguments, I decided to issue a provisional 
decision to X and Stripe on 3 October 2022. I said:
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I think its accepted by Stripe that it couldve been clearer in the way that it presented
information about the custom branding option. Although I agree with the investigator 
that Stripe didnt intentionally mislead X, I dont think this automatically prevents me 
from upholding Xs complaint. It does seem likely that along with the competitive 
price, the level of customisation seemingly offered by Stripe, did prompt X to make 
the switch.
Although X feared it might happen, I dont have evidence to suggest that X 
experienced a loss due to customers raising chargebacks because of Stripes name 
appearing on the DDIs. So, I cant require Stripe to compensate X for this kind of 
direct loss. I also dont think its fair to make Stripe cover the salary costs of Xs 
developer who was trying to integrate Stripes product with Xs systems. This was a 
liability that X had regardless of which tasks the employee was carrying out.
I do however consider it reasonable to require Stripe to compensate X for some of 
the inconvenience it experienced when trying to carry out the integration. As X has 
said  it had previous experience of customers raising chargebacks because of the 
way that its name appeared on DDIs and bank statements. So, having the option to 
only show Xs name, rather than Stripe re X, was very important to it.
Stripe already offered X fee free processing which I understand was worth about 
£250. But as X decided not to remain with Stripe after it couldnt deliver the level of 
customisation it expected, the offer was of no benefit to X.
X was engaged in attempts to try and get Stripe to deliver the outcome it had 
expected when it switched from G. My award reflects the impact on X of several 
weeks of wasted effort, together with the inconvenience involved when X moved 
back to G. Taking account of our published guidelines about compensation and 
applying my own judgment, I consider the appropriate amount is £350.
This service is dealing with an almost identical complaint about Stripe made by a 
company related to X. So, my award of compensation takes account of the fact that 
the inconvenience to X was effectively shared by the other company.
Further submissions
X didnt reply to my provisional decision. Stripe accepted my provisional decision but wanted 
to double check that I meant for it to pay X £350 as well as £350 to the other company 
related to X. The investigator has confirmed that if X accepts my decision, Stripe should pay 
X £350. And if the related company accepts my provisional decision in that complaint, Stripe 
should pay that company £350. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been asked by X to consider any additional evidence or arguments and as Stripe 
accepted my proposed outcome, I consider it reasonable to make my final decision along the 
same lines as my provisional decision.Putting things right
Stripe Payments UK Limited should pay X £350 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, Stripe Payments 
UK Limited should put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman