DRN-4300417
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited took too long to resolve a claim under his 
motor legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
The detailed background to the complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a brief summary of the key events here.
In 2018, Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident when his car was hit from 
behind by a third party. 
Aviva settled the claim and instructed solicitors to recover its outlay from the third 
partys insurers (TPI). Mr Cs uninsured losses were included.
TPI agreed to pay the outlay and losses in November 2022, two months before the 
case was due in court.
Mr C raised a complaint as it had taken four years to recover his losses. He says he 
was asked to fill out multiple forms and dealt with several firms of solicitors who 
caused delays. He wants Aviva to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused him.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr C brought it to our service. But our 
Investigator couldnt find any avoidable delays which Aviva were responsible for, so 
he didnt think it needed to do anything to put things right.
As Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by clarifying that complaints about the advice, service, or conduct of a firm of 
solicitors fall outside the remit of our service. Solicitors have their own rules and 
regulations, and complaints about them can be referred to the Legal Ombudsman.
As solicitors are independent of Aviva and dont work on its behalf, we wouldnt hold 
Aviva liable for their actions. The solicitors have the sole responsibility for the day to 
day conduct of the legal case. While they may be obliged to provide Aviva with 
updates and seek permission for any major steps in the litigation, Aviva isnt required 
to monitor or supervise the way in which the solicitors progress a claim.
I understand that Mr C was unhappy with the solicitors first appointed on his claim 
and he raised concerns to Aviva. As a result, Aviva changed the firm of solicitors. Im 
satisfied this was the right action to take in the circumstances and I cant fairly expect 
Aviva to do anything more than that.
Legal action can be a lengthy process and its unfortunate that this case took four 
years to conclude. But I havent identified that this was a result of anything Aviva did 
or didnt do. As a party to the litigation with its own losses to recover, Aviva wouldve 
been just as keen as Mr C to see the claim resolved. 
From the information available, I can see that the TPI disputed liability and filed a 
defence. There were also delays in receiving the police report. And a witness was 
required to give evidence. This was also during a time of national lockdown due to 
Covid-19, which had an impact on how firms were able to operate and caused 
backlogs in the court system following its closure. 
Whilst Mr C may believe this couldve all progressed more quickly, I havent seen any 
delays which Aviva are responsible for. So I wont be asking it to do anything more to 
put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman