DRN-2837288
The complaint
Mr O has complained Lloyds Bank plc victimised him and treated him badly. He doesnt 
believe sufficient compensation was then paid.
What happened
On 19 June 2020 Mr O tried to withdraw £300 from a cash machine. He got his card back 
but didnt receive any money. This wasnt a Lloyds cash machine but as Mr O is a Lloyds 
customer he called them. Hed been waiting for his benefit payment and was now concerned 
he had no money to pay for food.
Mr O is disabled and has a carer, who helped when the call with the Lloyds customer service 
adviser became difficult. His carer (who Ill call Miss R) noted the adviser  believing he had 
the phone on mute  was then talking in an extremely abusive manner about her and Mr O.
Mr O complained about being left without any money and the service hed received from 
Lloyds. Lloyds accepted the call with their adviser hadnt met the required standards. They 
also accepted they could have done more when Mr O told them he didnt have enough 
money even though theyd immediately re-credited his account with the money hed not 
been able to withdraw from the cash machine. They paid him £243 initially in compensation 
which included taxi, call and food costs. In August they paid Mr O a further £960 for the way 
the call was handled. They believed their adviser hadnt behaved properly. Most of the 
abuse had been directed towards Miss R. Lloyds separately compensated Miss R although 
shes not a customer of theirs.
Mr O was still unhappy about how hed been treated. He wanted to get copies of the calls as 
he was convinced that hed been referred to as it despite numerous Lloyds staff saying that 
wasnt the case. A further complaint resulted in Mr O being paid a further £500 as Lloyds 
hadnt met the timescales theyd set for responding to him.
Mr O brought his complaint to our service as he felt victimised and treated very badly. Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence, including Mr Os verbal testimony. Lloyds evidence 
included the actual call on 19 June 2020 which is the central aspect of Mr Os complaint.  
Although our investigator appreciated how upset Mr O was at what had happened, he could 
see that Lloyds had paid him more than £1,700 in compensation and costs throughout this 
period. He didnt believe further compensation would be fair.
Mr O objected to this finding. He noted our website highlighted how bad swearing and 
victimisation was in terms of customer service.
His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I need to confirm, as did our investigator in his view, that Ive got no power to look into 
what happened to Miss R. I can see a considerable amount of compensation was paid into 
Mr Os account to her in apology.
Then its worth saying upfront that Mr O was treated badly. His concerns werent taken 
seriously and the action that Lloyds could have taken to help him immediately didnt 
materialise (despite money being refunded for the cash machine transaction). Mr O felt 
desperate. He survives on his benefit payments and without being able to get his money, I 
can see why he was upset and concerned.  
The call between Lloyds adviser and Mr O (and then Miss R) didnt go well. The language 
used is shocking. Mr O is right our service takes a dim view of this. What is clear is that most 
of the time the adviser is talking about Miss R. This is clear from the language he used. I 
accept, however, that this had an impact on Mr O as well. Theres no excuse for what 
happened.
I can then see that Mr O, or Miss R, was referred to as it. No wonder Mr O felt victimised. It 
must have been upsetting to find out it took Lloyds quite so long to properly listen to the call 
when this happened.
Mr O has other complaints  about the time everything took and not being able to get the 
calls to listen to. Ive considered all of this too.
What can I do about it? I cant take away the words that were used or the hurt caused to 
Mr O. Lloyds has apologised and paid Mr O more than £1,700. Another £75 is available to 
him if he wishes to accept that. It is not our services role to penalise a business for doing 
something wrong as were not the regulator. Our role is to look at the impact on the 
individual. In this case, Mr O. Because of his personal circumstances, I can see why this 
would be considerable.
I would therefore consider compensation of about £1,500 to be fair for the seriousness of 
what happened. In fact Lloyds has paid Mr O more than £1,700 already. So under our rules 
it wouldnt be fair of me to ask them to pay more.
That decision translates into me saying Im not going to uphold Mr Os case. I stress thats 
only because Im not going to be asking Lloyds to pay him further compensation, not 
because what happened wasnt serious and upsetting to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Os complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman