DRN-3733322
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in 2019 by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says hed had and used an FPA for many years. In 2019, he says Nationwide lowered 
the upper age limit of the travel insurance policy but didnt correctly inform him of the 
change. He says he thought he was still covered for all non-medical losses. 
As a result, after passing the upper age limit in 2019, he had unknowingly travelled with no 
insurance cover. And he felt he had paid the same monthly amount for the FPA since 2019 
but received less benefits.
Nationwide says it informed Mr A that the travel policy ceased at the upper age limit as he 
was approaching it and offered him an Age Extension Upgrade for £65, which Mr A did not 
take out. And it says the FPA is offered as a package and not in separate parts.
For clarity, firstly Mr A has made some complaints about the insurance company providing 
the travel cover, and this decision does not cover those complaints. If Mr A takes those up 
with the insurance company and they are not resolved, he could bring those to this service 
as a separate complaint. Secondly, Mr A has not complained about the original sale of the 
FPA, so this decision is about what happened when the upper age limit changed in 2019 and 
the following period that he held the FPA.
Mr A agrees that he was notified in advance of the lowering of the age limit for the travel 
insurance policy but says the wording he was sent was not clear.
Nationwide has provided evidence of the wording Mr A was sent and Ive looked at it 
carefully. 
In my view, the wording says that cover exists until the members age limit birthday, but 
cover doesnt exist beyond that, unless an Age Extension Upgrade is bought. And whilst Ive 
noted Mr As reference to his interpretation of the medical checks required to obtain the 
upgrade, I also see that Mr A also had a discussion with a member of Nationwide staff about 
the issue at the time where I think its more likely than not that he would have understood 
what was on offer.
So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr A was aware he 
had no travel insurance cover after his age limit birthday.
Following on from this, the FPA is sold as a package, and there is no obligation on 
Nationwide to split the benefits into parts and offer them at lower prices. Mr A could have 
closed the FPA any month, but he didnt, and Nationwide has provided evidence that he 
continued to use some of the other benefits available, making a claim on one of them.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr A chose to continue paying for the FPA after he 
passed the upper age limit for the travel insurance cover knowing that he wasnt eligible for 
the cover unless he paid the upgrade fee. 
So, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman