DRN-2969558
The complaint
Mr A had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Union 
Reiseversicherung AG (URV). Miss T is also an insured person under the policy. This 
complaint concerns URVs refusal to meet Mr As claim for medical expenses following an 
accident abroad.
What happened
Mr A and Miss Ts policy covered them for the year from April 2018 to April 2019. In 
November 2018 Mr A was seriously injured in an accident abroad and remained in hospital 
until he was repatriated eight weeks later. Mr A submitted a claim for the medical expenses 
he had incurred. URV declined to meet the claim in full arguing that Mr A was under the 
influence of alcohol and/or drugs at the time of the incident. It had paid for Mr As 
repatriation, although it said that it wasnt obliged to as Mr A wasnt eligible.
Unhappy with this Mr A and Miss T referred their complaint here. Our investigator didnt find 
that URV had treated them unfairly. Through their representative they appealed. In summary 
they said what happened to Mr A was an accident and:
There are no records to show that Mr A was drunk or on drugs and a toxicology 
report wasnt requested. It is disputed that Mr A was drunk or even had drunk at all.
The hospital manager referred to in URVs report wasnt working at the hospital at the 
time. The hotels notes on Mr As account make no mention of suicide, drink or drugs.
URV has made false claims and there are concerns about its staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered with care the detailed representations of Mr A and Miss Ts 
representative. My decision though focuses of the crux of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute that Mr As policy provides cover for medical expenses. Its also not 
disputed that the policy excludes cover in certain circumstances. URV relies on the following 
exclusions:
We wont pay for
You or your close relative or business associate being under the influence of drugs (except
those prescribed by your registered doctor but not when prescribed for treatment of drug
addiction), alcohol (a blood alcohol level that exceeds 0.19% - approximately four pints or
four 175ml glasses of wine) or solvents or anything relating to you or your close relatives or
business associate prior abuse of alcohol or solvents.
We wont pay for
Your suicide, self-injury or any wilful act of self-exposure to danger (except where it is to
save human life).
URV has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly and mustnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. The issue for me to determine is whether URV has shown that it is able to rely 
on either or both of these exclusions in order to decline the claim.
There is no medical evidence confirming that Mr A was drunk or on drugs at the time of the 
incident, accordingly URV have relied on circumstantial evidence. I dont intend to detail all 
the evidence as it has all been shared with Mr A and Miss Ts representative. In summary 
the evidence includes:
A statement taken from a witness at the scene of the incident which said that Mr A 
appeared drunk and was crossing the road recklessly at the time of the incident.
An investigation report which contains comments from the guest services manager at 
the hotel that Mr A and Miss T were staying at, stating they were acting strangely in 
the reception area on the date of the incident and were possibly intoxicated.
The investigator also spoke to the hospital manager who saw Mr A and Miss T 
walking in an extremely unsteady fashion on the evening of the incident  both 
seemingly intoxicated by alcohol and/or drugs.
A news report transcript which suggests that Mr A walked across a traffic lane and in 
front of a vehicle.
I note that it is disputed that Mr A was drunk or had even drunk at all. As stated above I 
accept that there is no definitive evidence that he was under the influence of drugs or alcohol 
at the time of the incident. This would have been helpful, but its absence is not an indicator 
one way or the other. Im satisfied that the third-party evidence referred to above indicates it 
is more likely than not that Mr A was under the influence of either drink or drugs. But even if 
this was not the case, Im satisfied that there is evidence of a wilful self-exposure to danger. 
This is evident from the manner in which Mr A attempted to cross the road.
I accept that the hospital manager who was interviewed by the investigator wasnt working in 
the hospital at the time of this incident. I understand he was visiting a nearby complex 
containing a cinema. I dont find that this makes his evidence any less reliable. 
Given the weight of the circumstantial evidence from unrelated sources referred to above Im 
satisfied that URV was able to rely on the above exclusions to decline the claim submitted 
for medical expenses.
Finally, I note the concerns expressed about URV, the submissions made in this case and 
concerns about its staff. This is a difficult case and the consequences of the incident very 
tragic for Mr A. However, I dont find that the submissions made by URV have been false or 
deliberately exaggerated. I understand that the representative has concerns about its staff, 
but I am concerned with the merits of this case only and for the reason given Im satisfied 
that Union Reiseversicherung AG has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching the conclusion 
that it has.
My final decision
I recognise that this is not welcome news, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman