DRN-2924629
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined her claim on her 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs P had home insurance with Lloyds. In February 2020 she raised a claim on the 
insurance after a storm caused damage to her conservatory. She instructed a contractor to 
inspect the damage and quote for repairs, she sent these to Lloyds to assess.
Lloyds said the quotes were higher than expected and arranged for its own contractor to 
inspect the damage. This took some time due to a disagreement about the contractor Lloyds 
appointed, as well as other factors.
In December 2020 Lloyds received the final report from its contractor and declined Mrs Ps 
claim. It said the damage had been caused due to wear and tear and not just because there 
was a storm, and this is excluded under the policy. 
Mrs P didnt agree this was the case, she said her contractor had confirmed that the damage 
was caused by the storm. She made a complaint. 
Lloyds responded to her complaint but maintained its declinature of her claim as it felt the 
damage was due to wear and tear. However it said it had caused some avoidable delays 
and offered £100 compensation to make up for these. 
Mrs P didnt agree with this response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that from the evidence 
provided she thought the damage was most likely caused by wear and tear, which had been 
worsened by the storm. So she thought Lloyds had acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said she had a pre-purchase survey carried out in 2017 and this 
didnt highlight any problems with the conservatory. And her own contractor confirmed the 
damage was caused by a storm. So she didnt think Lloyds had fairly declined her claim. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, at this service when we consider whether a business has fairly 
declined a claim for storm damage, we consider three questions. And, if we think the answer 
to all three questions is yes then we generally think the business should accept the claim.
The questions are as follows:
1. Were there storm conditions at the time the damage was caused?
2. Is the damage thats being claimed for consistent with a storm?
3. Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
 
In this case, there is no dispute that there was a storm at the time Mrs P made the claim. 
And that the damage to her conservatory is consistent with storm damage. So I wont 
comment further on those questions, as Im satisfied they can both be reasonably answered 
yes. In this decision, Ive focused on question three  is the storm the main cause of the 
damage. 
Lloyds has declined the claim as it doesnt think the main cause of the damage was the 
storm. Instead it says the damage was due to wear and tear, and this has been worsened 
due to the storm conditions. So it says the damage is excluded under the policy.
I need to decide if it has done enough to prove this exclusion applies and acted fairly by 
applying it in the circumstances. 
Lloyds has provided a report from its contractor who inspected the damage. The report 
concludes that there was pre-existing damage and some evidence of previous repairs. It 
also says that the materials used for the construction of the roof are insufficient. Ive 
considered this alongside the photos and I can see that the conservatory does have signs of 
deterioration and wear and tear. So Im persuaded theres enough to show that there were 
existing problems with the roof, before the storm. And I think Lloyds has acted fairly by 
relying on this report when assessing the cause of the damage.
Mrs P has provided a report from her own expert, which Ive also considered. This explains 
that the damage to the conservatory has been caused by the storm conditions. However the 
report makes no comment on the condition of the conservatory before the storm, so I dont 
think this disproves Lloyds experts report. 
Lloyds hasnt disputed that there was a storm and that this caused the conservatory to be 
damaged. It has declined the claim because it says the materials used to build the 
conservatory, and the existing wear and tear, was the main cause of the damage and the 
storm worsened this. And Mrs Ps report makes no comment on this element. So Im not 
persuaded that this shows there was no wear and tear before the storm and that the claim 
should be accepted.
Mrs P has also provided a copy of the pre-purchase survey that was carried out in 2017. 
This found no issues with the conservatory. However this was nearly three years before the 
claim was raised. And the nature of wear and tear is that it happens, and gets worse, over 
time. So I dont think this survey is enough to say that the damage wasnt caused by wear 
and tear when the storm happened in 2020.  
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Lloyds has done enough to show the exclusion for wear 
and tear applies here. And that it has applied it fairly. So I wont ask it to do anything 
differently.
Ive also considered the delays during the claim. I agree it has progressed slowly, as the 
claim was raised in February but not declined until December. From looking at the timeline of 
the claim, not all of these delays were caused by Lloyds. There was some disagreement 
about the contractor it was using, that meant it took a while for Lloyds to arrange a visit to 
Mrs Ps property. And there were lockdown restrictions that made visits more difficult at 
times during 2020. However it took Lloyds longer than it should have to obtain a report on 
the damage and decline the claim, so I agree there were some avoidable delays. Lloyds has 
offered £100 compensation to make up for these delays and this is in line with what I would 
have recommended if it hadnt done so already. So I think thats fair in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman