DRN-3386632
Complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly refused to 
provide him with a loan to repay his overdraft, which it had substantially increased the 
interest rate on. Hes also unhappy that First Direct suspended the use of his credit card.
Background
In 2020, First Direct changed the way it charged for overdrafts. It no longer had a distinction 
between arranged and unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to its 
overdrafts would be 39.9%. Once Mr O realised how much interest he was being charged on 
his overdraft he applied for a loan to repay the outstanding balance. After conducting 
enquiries into Mr Os circumstances, First Direct declined the loan application. It said that its 
affordability checks led it to conclude that a loan wasnt affordable.
Mr O complained to First Direct saying that the income and expenditure information it relied 
on when deciding whether to provide him with a loan was flawed and inaccurate. He was 
also unhappy that his credit card also ended up being suspended. First Direct didnt uphold 
Mr Os complaint. 
Mr O remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Os concerns. She didnt think that First Direct had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly. In her view, while First Direct refused Mr Os loan 
application it still offered to refer him to its financial support team for a tailored response to 
repaying his overdraft. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr O is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair increase in First Directs 
overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at First Directs charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr O if it implemented these changes unfairly.    
Mr O says that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as it has refused to 
provide him with a loan, which would have been substantially cheaper for him, based on 
flawed information that it obtained during its income and expenditure assessment.
I can understand why Mr O believes the income and expenditure assessment he went 
through was flawed. But while Ive thought about what Mr O has said, I do think that it might 
help for me to explain that lenders are required not to lend irresponsibly. And when deciding 
whether to lend the amount of money Mr O asked for, Id usually expect a lender to do more 
than simply rely on what it was being told by the applicant. Indeed, the regulators rules 
specifically state that it is generally not sufficient to rely solely on a statement of such 
matters from the applicant without independent evidence.
In this particular case, Mr O was asked to evidence his income. And First Direct also carried 
out a credit check on Mr O too. The notes Ive seen indicate that not only was First Direct 
concerned that Mr O hadnt been able to evidence receiving the income declared but that the 
credit check it carried out showed adverse information in relation to Mr Os secured creditors 
and also that he had numerous credit facilities which were at their respective limits. 
First Direct considered this to be an indication that Mr Os finances may already have been 
under pressure. First Direct was also particularly concerned that Mr O was in persistent debt 
on his First Direct credit card too. So First Direct didnt simply rely on the income and 
expenditure assessment completed over the telephone, it looked at the whole picture of        
Mr Os existing indebtedness as well as what he was able to evidence about his 
circumstances when deciding whether to provide a loan to him. And having looked at 
everything First Direct had, I dont think its decision not to lend was unfair or unreasonable.      
I do understand Mr Os strength of feeling on this matter and why he considers First Directs 
decision to be somewhat incongruous given his existing overdraft balance and the fact that 
he already owed the money that it was refusing to lend. But as our investigator explained, 
First Direct didnt also conclude that Mr Os existing overdraft remained sustainable for him 
going forward, when it declined the loan application. On the contrary, First Direct had and 
presumably still has concerns about Mr Os ability to repay what he already owed and it 
made more than one offer to refer Mr O to its financial support team where Mr O would have 
been able to get tailored help to manage and repay his overdraft. 
However, Mr O refused all offers of assistance because he has maintained he isnt in 
financial difficulty. So, I dont think that First Directs position is as contradictory as Mr O 
believes it to be. The difference is that Mr O already had the overdraft. That said, I would 
remind First Direct that it cannot and should not ignore Mr Os overdraft usage indefinitely - 
simply because Mr O may be refusing its offers of help and he may not consider there to be 
a problem. As a regulated lender, First Direct was and is under an ongoing obligation to 
monitor Mr Os overdraft usage and this could include imposing a corrective solution, 
irrespective of Mr Os wishes, should the facts speak for themselves and demonstrate that 
the overdraft is clearly unsustainable for Mr O. 
I do have some concerns that First Direct hasnt taken such action already. But my concerns 
are mitigated by Mr Os refusal to engage with First Directs financial support team and there 
being insufficient evidence, thus far, for me to conclude that the facts speak for themselves 
and clearly show that Mr Os overdraft was unsustainable for him  irrespective of his 
assertions. So, at this stage, given the unique circumstances present here, Im satisfied that 
it wouldnt have been proportionate for First Direct to have unilaterally taken corrective action 
in relation to Mr Os overdraft before now.  
Ive also thought about First Directs actions in relation to Mr Os credit card and his second 
smaller overdraft. Our investigator explained that Mr O was considered to be in persistent 
debt on his credit card  as hed paid more in interest, fees and charges then hed paid 
towards what he owed over milestones set by the regulator - and was sent the various 
communications. The regulators rules in relation to this require a lender to take specific 
actions.Furthermore, while Mr O did repay his outstanding balance just before the end of the 
prescribed period and Im aware that Mr O says he had good reasons for operating his 
account in this way, I dont think that First Direct could simply ignore the fact that hed 
already spent a significant amount of time in persistent debt. This coupled with the other 
concerns it had about Mr Os existing indebtedness and ability to repay what he owed, mean 
that I dont think that it was unreasonable for First Direct to suspend Mr Os use of his credit 
card and his second overdraft facility in the way that it did. It was doing this to avoid Mr O 
accruing more debt at a time when it had doubts about his ability to repay.
Finally, Ive also seen that Mr O initially had concerns that he may have been discriminated 
against because of his age. But having looked at everything provided, Id like to reassure   
Mr O that Ive not seen anything at all to suggest that his age played any part in First Directs 
lending decisions. The lending decisions appear to have been made purely on what First 
Direct determined Mr O was able to sustainably repay. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that First Direct has treated Mr O 
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
Mr O as he clearly feels strongly about the matter. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Os complaint, I would remind First Direct about what Ive 
already said in relation to its obligations with regard to Mr Os ongoing usage of his overdraft  
and the need to step in should it be the case that the facility has become demonstrably 
unsustainable for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman