DRN-2656830
The complaint
Mr G complains that Amigo Loans Ltd was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr G took out three loans with Amigo loans between April 2017 and June 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 17 Apr 2017 £500 12m £51.53 With loan 2
2 26 May 2017 £8,500 60m £335.96 With loan 3
3 27 Jun 2017 £10,000 60m £395.25 Outstanding
Mr G says the loans were unaffordable to him and if Amigo Loans had carried out 
appropriate checks it would have seen that. He says he wasnt asked for pay slips or bank 
statements and his credit rating was poor. Mr G adds that he had to borrow further to 
make the repayments and wasnt made aware of important information about the loan.
Amigo Loans says it asked Mr G about his income and expenditure and verified the income 
with a credit reference agency. It says it also considered whether Mr Gs declared 
expenses were realistic compared with the national average given his circumstances. 
Amigo Loans adds that it also reviewed Mr Gs credit file and, although it says his record 
suggested he may have experienced financial difficulties in the past, it did not consider that 
to be the case at the time of the loan application. It says it calculated Mr G had sufficient 
disposable income to make the repayments.
Amigo Loans says the same process was followed for all three loans and it could see that 
his debt was being consolidated which was in line with the stated loan purpose. It says it 
was satisfied that a responsible lending decision was made for each loan application. 
Finally, Amigo Loans says the information about the total amount repayable, how and when 
to make repayments and the continuous payment authority was all available in the terms 
and conditions of the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found Amigo Loanss 
checks showed Mr G couldnt afford the loans. She said Amigo Loans should:
A. Add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given 
all his loans. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement).
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Amigo Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr G;
B. Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the loans.
Amigo Loans did not respond to the adjudicators view.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr G and to Amigo Loans on 2 February 2021. I 
summarise my findings here:
I was satisfied that the checks it carried out for loan 1 were proportionate and there 
was nothing to indicate to Amigo Loans that Mr G was currently in financial difficulty, 
or that it needed to do further checks;
However, I was not satisfied the checks went far enough for loans 2 and 3 because:
oBoth loans 2 and 3 were for a five-year period and Amigo Loans needed to be 
satisfied that the repayments would be sustainable over that period;
oThe amount Mr G was borrowing was significantly higher than loan 1 and the 
repayments represented almost 30% of his declared income (and more than 
30% of his earnings from employment);
oBoth loans 2 and 3 were taken out before the previous loan had been repaid;
oAlthough Mr G said the first loan was for debt consolidation, he said loan 2 
was for the purchase of a car/bike and loan 3 was for bills;
oMr Gs credit file showed an active County Court Judgement (CCJ) and a 
balance on a defaulted account, although hed repaid a credit card balance;
So I considered that Amigo Loans should have verified Mr Gs income and 
expenditure before approving either of loans 2 and 3;
Although the evidence was incomplete, I considered it unlikely that Mr Gs 
expenditure was such that he could sustainably afford the repayments on loans 2 
and 3. I said that because:
oIf Mr G had the disposable income hed declared, he is unlikely to have 
needed the £500 loan that Amigo Loans approved initially;
oThree months after making the first repayment on loan 3, Mr G took out the 
first of several short-term loans;
oMr G first struggled to make a repayment in February 2018;
oShortly after that, and within nine months of his first repayment on loan 3, 
Mr G borrowed £7,500 from two further high-cost lenders which meant he had 
an additional £437 per month to repay;
oHe continued to borrow from short-term lenders through 2018 and into 2019;
oBy 2019, Mr G had recorded two further defaults on his credit file.
When Mr G applied for loan 3, hed repaid the credit card, the defaulted account and the
CCJ. But I thought it was more likely than not that the repayments on loans 2 and 3 were not
sustainable for him and caused him financial detriment as reflected in his credit file after thatdate. I considered that, if bank statements had been available, it was probable they would 
have shown that Mr Gs disposable income was lower than hed declared.
In summary, I found Amigo Loanss checks were proportionate for loan 1, but not for loans 2 
or 3. I considered it more likely than not that proportionate checks on loans 2 and 3 wouldve 
shown the repayments on them were unsustainable for five years and that Amigo Loans was 
irresponsible to have approved them. I was satisfied that Amigo Loans made Mr G aware of 
important information about the loan, so I didnt find it acted unfairly in any other way.
Mr J responded to say he had nothing further to add and Amigo Loans did not respond.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Amigo Loans Ltd should:
Add up the total amount Mr G received as a result of having been given loans 2 and 
3. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Amigo Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr G;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding loans 2 
and 3, up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo Loans to take off tax from this interest. Amigo
Loans must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman