DRN-3612907
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) failed to tell him where the funds in his 
account were sent when it closed his current account.
Background
In March 2022, Monzo notified Mr J that it no longer wished to offer him an account so it was 
closing his current account and returning the funds to source. Mr J was unhappy with this 
and complained. Monzo didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. As Mr J remained dissatisfied, Mr J 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr J 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr J, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And Monzo decided it no longer wished to 
have Mr J as a customer. Closing a customers account is a commercial decision that a bank 
is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision  although 
having looked at matters, Im satisfied that Monzo was entitled to take the action it did in line 
with the terms and conditions.
Mr J is unhappy because he says Monzo hasnt told him what his closing balance was and 
which of his other accounts the funds were returned to. But Monzo hasnt said the funds 
were returned to Mr J. It has said that the funds were returned to source. This isnt 
necessarily the same thing as the returning funds to Mr J because what this effectively 
means is that the funds were returned to where they were originally sent from. So the funds 
would only have been returned to one of Mr Js accounts if thats where they were sent from 
in the first place. 
I have to say that, given the limited activity, Im a little surprised Mr J doesnt know the 
source of the funds immediately prior to his account being closed. Nonetheless, if Mr J wants 
further details on the transactions on his account and the precise amount of the closing 
balance he can ask Monzo for a copy of his final statement. But overall I dont think that 
Monzo did anything wrong or unfair when it refused to tell Mr J precisely where the 
remaining balance was returned.   
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr J 
and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr J. But 
I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I think 
Monzo hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman