DRN-3923586
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he made a claim after his car was stolen Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited cancelled his policy from inception and wouldnt pay his claim.
What happened
Mr M had insurance for his car with Calpe. In March 2022 his car was stolen from outside his 
home. When he reported the theft to Calpe Mr M told them his house was broken into and 
his car keys stolen. 
As part of their investigation to validate Mr Ms claim Calpe found that hed had a previous 
car insurance policy cancelled. This hadnt been declared when Mr M took out his policy. 
Having considered this information Calpe sent Mr M notification, on 17 May 2022, that his 
policy was being voided from the outset, due to misrepresentation of the risk. 
The notification reminded Mr M that he had a duty to answer all questions that have been 
asked correctly when taking out his insurance. And as hed failed to disclose that hed had a 
previous policy cancelled, he was in breach of one of the terms and conditions of his policy 
and Calpe were invoking their right to avoid the policy.
And on 20 May 2022 Mr M was advised that Calpe wouldnt be providing an indemnity for his 
claim and his policy was being cancelled from inception. He was referred to section 7 of his 
policy, headed Inaccurate or misleading information, the relevant provisions saying: -
When asked, if you or anyone acting on your behalf
Misleads us in any way, in order to obtain this insurance, obtain more favourable 
terms or to reduce the premium payable
Misleads or fails to accurately answer questions which affect either the terms and 
conditions or the premium of this insurance of underwriters accepting your cover, 
including as to who is the main driver of your car, information relating to claims, no 
claims discount, motoring convictions, criminal convictions, modifications to your car 
or its use;
We or the underwriters may
Immediately avoid your policy from the start date of the policy. If your policy is 
avoided as a result of section 7 underwriters will not pay any claim and in certain 
circumstances may retain any premiums paid.
And Mr M was told for him this meant that he was unable to claim further for the loss of his 
car, as indemnity had been refused.
Mr M had raised a complaint about the delays in dealing with his claim before Calpe notified 
him that his policy was being cancelled. They provided their final response to his complaint 
on 20 May 2022. The same day they wrote to him advising him that his policy had been 
cancelled from inception.
In this letter they said that they were treating his failure to disclose that hed had a previous 
motor insurance policy cancelled, as a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, under the 
terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And 
this entitled them to void his policy, refuse all claims, and they didnt need to return his 
premiums. 
Mr M then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold 
the complaint. She said she was satisfied that when Mr M took out his policy with Calpe, 
hed failed to disclose that hed had a previous motor insurance policy voided, and that this 
was a qualifying misrepresentation by him at the point of sale of his policy under CIDRA.  
Our investigator said that Calpe had shown, that if Mr M had provided information about his 
previous voided policy, theyd have acted differently. And Mr M knew his previous policy had 
been voided but chose not to give the correct information to Calpe. He had an obligation 
under CIDRA to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, which he hadnt 
done. And as Calpe had voided Mr Ms policy and declined his claim in line with CIDRA, she 
didnt ask them to do anything.
Calpe accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr M didnt.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out his policy through brokers and some of the correspondence in this case has 
been sent to him by the brokers, on behalf of Calpe. For ease of reading Im referring to all 
correspondence as having been sent by Calpe, the underwriters, who made the decision to 
void Mr Ms policy.
CIDRA says that when taking out a contract of insurance a consumer must take reasonable 
care not to make any misrepresentation. When taking out his policy with Calpe Mr M was 
asked whether hed had any previous policy cancelled. Calpe have shown us that Mr M 
answered no to this question. The questions he was asked, and the answers he gave, are 
set out in the Statement of Insurance. 
Mr M has told us he wasnt sure why his previous policy had been cancelled. But he knew 
that it had been, so his answer to Calpes question wasnt correct. And Calpe established 
that his previous policy was cancelled due to non-disclosure of penalty points for speeding, 
and as a named driver on the policy having been involved in a fault claim, which also hadnt 
been declared.
Calpe have said that Mr Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, and I think thats 
correct. He was asked a clear question about whether hed had a previous policy cancelled, 
and he said he hadnt. 
CIDRA says that: -
If a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, the insurer  
(a) May avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and(b) Need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it would 
be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
Calpe gave notice to Mr M that they were cancelling his policy from inception and wouldnt 
be providing an indemnity in respect of his claim for his stolen car. This is the action that 
they were entitled to take under CIDRA as a result of his misrepresentation. 
I appreciate that Mr M is upset that not only has his policy been cancelled, but Calpe wont 
deal with his claim for his car. I understand the impact this has had on him. But his policy 
terms and conditions set out the possible consequences of not providing correct information 
to Calpe. And given what happened I think Calpe acted reasonably, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman