DRN-2982473
The complaint
Miss H complains about the settlement offered by Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as 
Legal and General (Fairmead) after she made a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H had home insurance with Fairmead for a property she owns and intended to rent out. 
At the end of 2019 the property was undergoing renovations before it was marketed. At the 
start of January 2020, it was broken into. The property was vandalised and a number of 
fixtures and fittings were stolen. Miss H made a claim on her insurance.
Fairmead sent out a loss adjuster to assess the claim and accepted it. It paid out around 
£10,000 for what it thought were the required repairs and stolen items. However Miss H 
didnt agree this was enough. She said there was additional damage that Fairmead hadnt 
included in the settlement, but should be covered under the claim. Fairmead conducted 
another inspection by video call, due to Covid-19 restrictions. It agreed to pay an additional 
amount for the boiler but confirmed it didnt consider any further damage to have been claim 
related.  
Miss H wasnt happy with this as she said there was around £10,000 of extra costs that 
Fairmead hadnt covered but were related to the break in. 
These were:
Additional plastering of the walls  Fairmead had paid for patch plastering where the 
walls were damaged but once the work started it became clear that in order to carry out 
these repairs the whole walls would need to be re-plastered. Miss H thought Fairmead 
should pay for this.
Floor joists  Miss H has said the floor joists had been damaged when the piping was 
stolen but these hadnt been included in the settlement.
Newel post  Miss H says that the post at the top of the bannister had been damaged 
but Fairmead had declined this part of the claim as it said the damage most likely 
happened due to the renovations that were taking place and not the vandals. 
Loft hatch  Miss H said this was smashed by the vandals, however Fairmead said this 
most likely happened before the break in. 
Copper pipes  Miss H said Fairmead hadnt provided enough to cover the full cost of 
replacing the copper pipes that were stolen in its settlement.
Kitchen units  there were kitchen units being stored at the property that were due to be 
installed as part of the renovations, that were stolen in a second event in April 2020. 
Fairmead said these werent covered as Miss H hadnt yet paid for them so there wasnt 
an insurable interest. Miss H didnt think this was fair. 
Fairmead didnt uphold her complaint. It said it was satisfied that it had paid out the correct 
amount that it was liable for under the claim. It said other costs related to the renovations 
and werent caused by the vandals. 
Miss H didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
she thought Fairmead should cover the costs for the extra plastering, floor joists, newel post 
and loft hatch as they were most likely caused by the vandals. She also thought it should 
pay for the cost of replacing all necessary copper piping on receipt of proof of the cost from 
Miss H. And she thought the kitchen units were being stored in the property for use in the 
renovations so she didnt think it was fair that Fairmead turned down this part of the claim 
either. 
Finally, since bringing the complaint to us Miss H raised that there were units due to be 
installed in the bathroom that were stored downstairs and stolen by the vandals. But these 
havent been included in the settlement from Fairmead. Fairmead has agreed that the 
shower cubicle should be considered as part of the claim. Our investigator agreed that this 
should be considered. 
Miss H accepted our investigators opinion. However Fairmead didnt. It said that it 
maintained that all claim related costs had already been included in the settlement and didnt 
agree there was anything outstanding. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove there has been an insured 
peril  something thats covered under the policy. In this case Fairmead has accepted a valid 
claim for vandalism and theft. However it doesnt agree that all the costs being claimed for 
are related to the incident. I need to decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably when 
reaching this decision.   
Ive looked at the photos of the property and watched the videos provided. Its clear that the 
damage caused by the vandals is extensive. Fairmead has said that before the incident, 
there were significant renovations taking place and that some of the damage was due to the 
ongoing renovations and not the vandals. 
It isnt possible to know for certain how each area of damage was caused. So I need to 
consider what was most likely, based on the evidence provided. Ive considered each of the 
outstanding items in turn.
It is of note that some issues have been raised since the complaint came to this service. 
However Fairmead has considered each and provided its position. So Im considering all 
points as part of this complaint. 
Additional plastering of the walls 
Fairmeads settlement only includes patch repairs to the plastering where the damage was 
caused by the vandals. However I can see from the video recorded in April 2020 that the remaining plastering is now crumbling, so a patch repair wouldnt be sufficient. When a 
repair is carried out following an insured event, this service expects it to be effective and 
long lasting. And sometimes this means additional work is required, beyond just fixing the 
damaged parts. In this case I can see that patch repairs wouldnt be effective. So I think its 
reasonable for Fairmead to include the cost of all necessary re-plastering, on receipt of proof 
of the cost from Miss H. 
Newel post
The post at the top of the bannister has come loose. Fairmead says this wasnt noted on the 
first inspection and thinks its due to the renovation work. Ive looked at the most recent 
inspection video. This shows the newel post being touched, which demonstrates it is no 
longer held in position sufficiently.  The post is in a central area of the property, with damage 
caused by the vandals in areas surrounding it. Its clear that the vandals took no care when 
moving around the property, so it seems likely that during the incident the post could have 
been knocked and damaged. 
While Fairmead say there was no evidence of damage to the post in its first visit, I dont think 
its damage that would be clearly evident. And if the post wasnt examined specifically, it 
could easily have been missed and appeared intact. So I dont think this is enough to say the 
damage wasnt claim related.
For these reasons I dont think Fairmead has done enough to show that the damage to the 
newel post wasnt caused by the insured event, so I will require it to pay for any repairs or 
replacement required. This should be on receipt of proof from Miss H of the cost of the repair 
or replacement. 
Floor joists 
Miss H says the joists in the floors of the property were damaged when the copper pipes 
were stolen. She has provided photos to show the damaged joists. Fairmead has said that 
there was no evidence of the damage during its visit or video inspection, so it doesnt think 
the damage is claim related.
Fairmead has accepted the part of the claim for stolen copper pipes in some of the floors of 
the property. As these were taken from under the floor, it seems likely that the joists were 
damaged when these were removed. Further, Ive looked at the video from the inspection. 
And floorboards were put in place in order for those attending to be able to walk around the 
building. So damage wouldnt have been clear during this inspection as it was beneath the 
floorboards.
For these reasons I dont think Fairmead has acted fairly by declining to cover this part of the 
claim. I therefore will require it to pay for necessary repairs to the joists, on receipt of proof of 
the cost from Miss H. 
Loft hatch 
The glass on the hatch door to the loft has smashed. Miss H says this was caused by the 
vandals, but Fairmead has said that as there was no evidence of glass on the ground, its 
likely that this happened before the insured event, so isnt related.
Ive looked at the images of the hatch door and I can see that the glass is shattered but isnt 
smashed. So while it is broken, the glass remains in place. So I wouldnt expect to see glass 
on the floor. Further, as with the newel post, the door is in the area where other damage was 
caused by the vandals. So it seems likely that this was caused at the same time. For these reasons I dont think Fairmead has acted fairly by declining this part of the claim. I 
will therefore require it to pay to repair or replace the hatch door. Miss H will need to provide 
proof of the cost of this. 
Copper pipes 
Fairmead has accepted Miss Hs claim for the copper pipes and it has included an amount 
for these in its settlement. However Miss H says this isnt enough to cover all the pipes that 
were stolen and need replacing. 
Ive looked at the report from Fairmeads contractor that it based its settlement on. It appears 
that the amount for the copper pipes is based on an estimate for each room. Miss H has said 
that the builder she has instructed has said there is a much greater amount that needs 
replacing. As Fairmead has accepted that some pipes have been stolen, I think its 
reasonable that it pays the full amount for any replacements required. 
Miss H has provided some information about what she thinks is necessary. However this 
isnt enough to show what will be replaced and the cost of this. So Miss H should provide 
Fairmead with a quote for the replacement pipes. And I will require Fairmead to pay any 
difference between what it has already paid in the settlement and the full amount for the 
pipes. 
Kitchen units 
Miss H also claimed for a set of kitchen units that was taken in a second event in April 2020. 
While the claim was accepted, Fairmead said these wouldnt be covered as Miss H hadnt 
paid for them, so there was no insurable interest. 
Ive considered this and I dont think its fair. The units were being stored at the property to 
be used as part of the renovations. And Miss H was paying the builder at intervals for the 
work completed. This isnt an unusual arrangement, and I dont think there is any doubt that 
they were being stored in order to be installed in the property. So I think its reasonable to 
say they belonged to her for use in the property.
For this reason I will require Fairmead to pay the cost of the kitchen units, on receipt of proof 
from Miss H of the amount. 
Bathroom units
Miss H has said that units to be installed in the bathroom were being stored downstairs and 
parts were taken as part of the insured event. Fairmead considered this since the complaint 
came to the service and agreed that the shower cubicle appeared to be missing at the time 
of the inspection. So I agree that this should be considered as part of the claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Hs complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited  trading as Legal and General to:
Pay Miss H the cost of all necessary re-plastering, on receipt of proof of the cost.
pay for any necessary repairs or replacement required to the newel post, on receipt of 
proof of the cost.pay for necessary repairs to the floor joists, on receipt of proof of the cost.
pay to repair or replace the loft hatch door, on receipt of the cost. 
Pay the difference between the amount included in the original settlement for the copper 
pipes and the amount it will cost to replace them. Miss H should provide Fairmead with a 
quote for the replacement pipes. 
Pay the cost of the stolen kitchen units, on receipt of proof from Miss H of the amount. 
Consider Miss Hs claim for the shower cubicle as part of the claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.   
Where Miss H has already paid for any of the work, Fairmead should pay 8% interest on 
the amount paid from the date Miss H made payment until the date the claim is settled.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman