DRN-2768394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about the sale of an identity protection policy by Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in March 2021, part of which is copied below:
Mrs T complained about ID Aware cover being added to her credit card account, charged at
£6.99 per month, and later also complained that it had also been added to her and Mr Ts
joint current account between 2009 and 2011.
Mrs T says she didnt want the cover and it was worthless in any event, as she was already
covered under the terms of her credit card anyway. She has asked for all premiums paid
under both policies to be refunded.
Lloyds accepted Mrs Ts complaint and offered to refund the premiums made under the
policy attached to her credit card. It said these amounted to £83.88. Lloyds calculated that
there was interest due of £53.39 (8% per annum on each payment) less tax of £10.68
(which Mrs T can reclaim from HMRC if she is not liable). Lloyds therefore offered a total
payment of £126.59 to Mrs T. Lloyds says there was no ID protection cover on the current
account. Lloyds also said it cant provide copies of statements from the current account, after
it changed to Mr and Mrs ts joint names, without Mr Ts signed consent to do so.
Mrs T did not accept this offer, as she says shes not been provided with any evidence to
establish how much she paid in premiums and Lloyds has not complied with a request to
provide her with copies of her data which would allow her to see if its offer is reasonable.
Ms T has also said she is unhappy that Lloyds called her in response to her complaint and
asked for details of her previous address, accounts and other details that she says it should
have had already from its own records. She says she was quizzed about dates and other
information which was unnecessary. Mr T is also adamant that Lloyds does not require his
signature in order to provide copies of statements from the joint account.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He was satisfied the offer made in relation to
the credit card cover was fair and reasonable. And there was no evidence of any cover on
the current account (which had originally been in Mrs Ts sole name and then in joint names
from March 2009 and closed in April 2017). The investigator also said he did not think it was
unreasonable for Lloyds to request a signed authority form from Mr T before releasing
copies of the joint statements. He said it is not our role to comment on the its data policies
and procedures. The investigator did not therefore recommend that Lloyds make any further
payment.
Mrs T does not accept the investigators assessment. She has made a number of comments
in support of her complaint, which Ive summarised below:
the investigator has not investigated properly whether payments for the ID Aware
policy were made before July 2010 and has not provided any evidence of the
payments Lloyds says were taken or that there was no cover on her current account.
He did not specify what evidence he has seen to reach the conclusion he did.
She has asked Lloyds repeatedly for statements from her credit card account for the
period January 2009 to June 2010 and July 2011 to December 2012.
The investigator says Lloyds has acted fairly, which she finds offensive. What is "fair"
about failing to respond to two separate subject access requests and about failing to
reply to a series of letters asking for information?
Lloyds has sent incomplete and ambiguous information and failed to even identify the
name of the account. Lloyds has cynically and deliberately withheld information
throughout, which the investigator would have realised, if he had read her letter.
Lloyds failed to respond with their final response within the required time and she
was not kept updated.
She has also not had any documentation to confirm that no ID aware insurance
premiums were deducted on the current account when the account was in joint
names.
She sent a copy of a bank statement showing that a premium had been taken from
the current account to Lloyds as part of the complaint but did not keep a copy.
Mr T doesn't believe he is obligated by law to provide written consent for Mrs T to
obtain copies of the joint account statements.
She expects compensation for the time this complaint has involved for her.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
Lloyds previously sent a schedule of the premium payments from June 2010 (when it says
the account was opened and the insurance started) to July 2011 when the ID aware policy
was cancelled. It had also provided some current account statements from when the account
was in Mrs Ts sole name.
I asked the investigator to obtain copies of the credit card statements for the relevant period.
Lloyds provided credit card statements for the period from July 2010 to August 2011 and
from February 2012 to March 2012. Lloyds says that between August 2011 and February
2012 there was a nil balance and this is why there are no statements for that period. The
account closed in March 2012.
The statements confirm that £6.99 per month for ID Aware from July 2010 to July 2011 in
line with the schedule previously provided.
I arranged for these statements to be provided to Mrs T. She is extremely unhappy that it
has taken Lloyds so long to provide these, and that it did so only after our intervention. She
says she had first written to Lloyds about his in May 2019 and has had to write 13 letters to
the various organisations involved. Lloyds has been deliberately unhelpful and obstructive,
having mis-sold her a useless insurance. Mrs T also says:
Why has the Financial Ombudsman Service not demanded from Lloyds a full and detailed
explanation for their failure to adhere to the statutory time-scale for responding to a DSAR
request (1 month)? These are matters that require investigation by the Financial
Ombudsman Service [I] would have hoped that the Financial Ombudsman Service would
be making compensation awards against Lloyds Bank in cases like mine. Why should I have
to spend hours and hours of my time writing numerous letters - simply to try to obtain
information to which I am entitled?
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair andreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds hasnt admitted that the ID Aware policy was mis-sold but offered a refund of all
premiums paid, plus interest at 8% (which is our usual rate). This is what we would expect
where a policy has been mis-sold (and I think it is likely the policy was mis-sold) so I
consider this to be reasonable.
Lloyds provided a schedule which stated that Ms T paid £6.99 per month from July 2010 to
July 2011, for the ID Aware policy on her credit card account. Lloyds says the policy was
cancelled in July 2011. It says a total of £83.88 was paid by Mrs T and with interest, its offer
amounted to £126.59. The statements from the credit card account dont show any other
premiums were taken for this policy, so I consider this to be reasonable.
With regard to the joint current account, Mr and Mrs T say they submitted an original bank
statement to Lloyds when they first complained, which showed a payment for ID protection.
There are some statements on file from when the account was in Mrs Ts sole name, which
do not show any ID protection payments were taken from the account. And Lloyds says
there is no record of any policy being sold on this account after it was put in joint names but
has also refused to provide copies of statements without Mr Ts written consent to this. It
says his verbal consent is not enough.
Normally either party to a joint account can access an account while it is open, but this
account has closed and Lloyds says its internal policies require Mr Ts signature also. I am
not able to dispute this, as Lloyds will have its own security requirements. I do not think its
position is inherently unreasonable. If Mr and Mrs T want this further evidence, then Mr T will
need to provide his written consent.
On the evidence available to me, there is no reason to think any ID protection policy was
added to the current account. I do not therefore consider that I can ask Lloyds to make any
further payment to Mr and Mrs T.
Mrs T has queried the use of the phrase evidence available to me previously. When I say
this, I mean exactly that  there is no evidence currently available to me that an ID protection
policy was sold in relation to her current account; but there is potentially other evidence
available (i.e. other bank statements) which I am not able to consider because Mr T has not
provided the authority Lloyds requires to provide these. These statements could potentially
change the outcome of the complaint, but I can only consider what is available to me.
Mrs T is also unhappy that a representative of Lloyds called her asking questions about her
accounts and so on. Mrs T might have found this frustrating but I am unable to criticise
Lloyds for asking questions regarding the complaint and asking relevant security questions.
Mrs T asked Lloyds to carry out any further communications in writing, as is her right and I
understand it has complied with this request.
Mrs T is also extremely unhappy that her request for data was not responded to and it took
so long to get the statements from Lloyds. She has asked that we specifically investigate
why this is happened. I can understand her frustration and do think the provision of these
statements sooner, would have allowed Mrs T to satisfy herself that Lloyds offer was
sufficient. However, I have no power over such matters and any complaint about the failure
to respond to a request for date should be referred to the Information Commissioner. I am
not able to investigate why this information was not provided.
Mr and Mrs T have also said they expect compensation for the time and trouble involved in
bringing this complaint. We do not normally compensate consumers for the time involved in
bringing a complaint.I can, however, consider the service provided by Lloyds to Mr and Mrs T more generally.
Ultimately, what Lloyds had told Mrs T and the refund already paid was correct. There was
not therefore any financial loss as a result of the delay in providing this information but I
accept it would have caused frustration. I do consider that some compensation, over and
above the refund of the premium, is appropriate to reflect the trouble that this mis-sale has
caused Mr and Mrs T, including the concern that other accounts might have also been
affected. Overall, I consider the sum of £75 to be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require it to pay £75
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mis-sale of the ID Aware
policy, in addition to the refund of premiums and interest already offered.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or
arguments they want considered.
Mr and Mrs T have confirmed they accept my provisional decision and have not added
anything further.
Lloyds has also confirmed it accepts my provisional decision and agrees to pay the
compensation of £75 I proposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence and they both accept my provisional
decision, I see no reason to change my provisional findings
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require it to pay Mr and Mrs T £75
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mis-sale of the ID Aware
policy, in addition to the refund of premiums and interest already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman