DRN-3897746
The complaint
Mr P complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In December 2018, Mr P purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr P financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni that was 
repayable over ten years.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ps behalf under section 75 and section 140 
of the Act to Omni. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr P to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding because the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments would 
cover the loan repayments. 
The CMC also alleged that the relationship between Omni and Mr P was unfair on him. 
Omni issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr P or that its relationship with him was unfair on him. 
The CMC then referred a complaint about Omnis response to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr P was told the system would be self-funding because the FIT payments and 
savings combined would at least match the monthly loan repayments. 
The salesperson didnt take Mr P through the point-of-sale documents in any detail. 
The salesperson was likely incentivised to make the sale. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 has the effect that any negotiations between Mr P and the supplier are deemed 
to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni. Section 75 provides protection 
for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 140 gives the courts the 
power to determine whether the relationship between a creditor (in this case Omni) and 
debtor (in this case Mr P) was unfair to the debtor. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Omni. These 
include the contract, credit agreement, and performance estimation.
Contract
The contract shows the systems basic price was £6,695.00 and a brief description of the 
system to be installed. Mr P signed the contract on 16 December 2018, so Im satisfied he 
was aware of the basic price of the system. 
Performance estimation
The performance estimation set out the estimated first-year benefits of the system as 
follows:
This was provided immediately above where Mr P signed the document, which was on 16 
December 2018  at the same meeting he signed the contract. So, Im satisfied he was 
aware of these figures, and could easily compare the first-year benefit with the basic price. . 
I think from these two documents it is clear that the systems basic price was £6,695.00. This 
compared to the first-year benefit of up to £443.51 (which included electricity savings). That 
would suggest that it would take more than ten years to pay for itself if the benefit was the 
same each year  particularly given Mr Ps allegation is that he was told the FIT payments 
alone (just £230.11 according to the performance estimation) would cover the loan 
repayments.
The credit agreement
The credit agreement sets out the cash price (£6,695.00), the amount being borrowed 
(£6,695.00), the total charge for credit (£3,690.82), the total amount payable (£10,385.82), 
the term of the loan (120 months) and the contractual monthly repayments (£86.54 per 
month).
Mr P signed the credit agreement on 17 December 2018, although he was likely given the 
pre-contract agreement which included all the same information at the initial meeting on 
16 December 2018. The installation didnt take place until February 2019. 
So, Im satisfied that he was aware of these figures, including the monthly loan repayment 
and total amount payable, from which he could work out that the annual loan repayment 
would be about £1,038  much more than the first-year FIT payments.
Cost versus benefit
Based on the evidence from the point of sale, I think that Mr P was told or ought to have 
been aware of the following information:
The basic price of the system was £6,695.00.
The first-year benefit was up to £443.51. 
The monthly loan repayment was £86.54 (or about £1,038 per year).
The total amount payable was £10,385.82
This information does not suggest the system would be self-funding, since the first-year 
benefit (even including the estimated electricity savings) is much lower than the annual loan 
repayments. So, I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve told Mr P that FIT payments 
alone would cover the loan repayments. 
The CMCs additional comments
The CMC says Mr P was told the system would be self-funding because the FIT payments 
and savings combined would at least match the monthly loan repayments. This contradicts 
and undermines the initial claim made to Omni, which was that Mr P was told the system 
would be self-funding through the FIT payments alone. I have explained my findings on this 
point above including that I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve said that while 
providing documents that clearly contradict such a statement.
The CMC says the salesperson didnt take Mr P through the point-of-sale documents in any 
detail. The three documents mentioned above are fairly short and the information on them is 
clear. I think it is likely that the salesperson wouldve pointed to the basic price, first-year 
benefits, monthly repayments, and total amount payable when discussing the sale with Mr P 
 since this information is likely to have been important to him when deciding whether or not 
to agree to the purchase.  
The CMC suggests the salesperson was incentivised to make the sale. The CMCs 
speculation about how the salesperson may have been incentivised does not carry much 
weight when considered alongside all the other evidence. And, even if the salesperson was 
paid a commission for closing the sale, that does not mean they misrepresented the 
systems benefits in the way alleged. Particularly when other evidence available from the 
time of sale suggests that is unlikely to have happened. 
SummaryHaving carefully considered all the evidence provided in this complaint, Im satisfied that 
there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr P to enter into 
the contract for the system, and I have found no reason to think a court would conclude the 
relationship between Omni and Mr P was unfair on him. So, I think that Omnis response to 
the claim was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman