DRN-3374619
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that the Cooperative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her fee-paying 
Privilege and Privilege Premier packaged bank accounts that were sold to her in October 
2001 and November 2006 respectively.
Mrs H says that she was led to believe the only way she could keep her overdraft was by 
upgrading her account to the packaged accounts. Mrs H also says that she did not use any 
of the benefits that were provided by the accounts, and says she only agreed to them 
because she thought she had no choice.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that either of the 
accounts had been mis-sold.
Mrs Hs representative responded and didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. So the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs H says that she agreed to both of the packaged accounts because she says she was 
led to believe she had to have them to obtain an overdraft. Having looked at Mrs Hs 
overdraft history, Im not persuaded that what she says is correct. 
The reason why I say this is because prior to agreeing to the Privilege account, Mrs H had a 
fee-free account that included an arranged overdraft for many years prior to the upgrade. I 
can see that Mrs H increased her overdraft two months prior to the upgrade to £1000 and 
that this overdraft had been agreed for a year as per Co-ops process at the time. Therefore, 
Mrs H already had an overdraft limit and it didnt change when she agreed to the Privilege 
account. So I find it unlikely that two months after having an overdraft agreed for a year term, 
she would have believed that Co-op had changed their mind and was going to withdraw this 
overdraft. What I think is more likely that she was told that if she changed to the Privilege 
account she would save money on her overdraft.
To explain, prior to Mrs H having the Privilege account she was charged £8 a month when 
she used her overdraft facility. Whereas holders of the Privilege account did not have to pay 
this fee. The cost of the account was £6 a month.
So for anyone who was regularly entering their overdraft each month, the Privilege account 
wouldve been at least £2 cheaper per month (I say at least, because they would also pay 
less interest on the overdrawn balance as the account also came with preferential interest 
rates and an interest free overdraft buffer and would not have to pay the yearly overdraft 
arrangement fee), than if theyd continued with Co-ops standard current account.
Given that Mrs Hs recollection of the sale centres around the overdraft, I think this saving 
was the most likely reason why Mrs H agreed to the account. Therefore, whilst Mrs H may 
not have had a need for any of the insurance benefits that were also included with the 
account  I think its likely that she agreed to the account solely for the banking benefits. And 
as the account was sold as a package, Mrs H was unable to pick and choose what it came 
with.
My understanding from Co-op of their sales process at the time, it believes this account was 
not recommended to Mrs H. But, even if Co-op had recommended the account to Mrs H, 
from what I have seen of Mrs Hs circumstances, it seems to have been a good way for her 
to reduce the cost of using her overdraft. And so I cant reasonably say it was mis-sold.
When the Privilege Premier account was sold in November 2006 it cost £12 per month. So 
this represented an increase of £4.50 per month extra, compared to what Mrs H was already 
paying for her existing Privilege account (as the Privilege account by this point was £7.50 a 
month). Though it does seem that the Privilege account was just about to increase its fee by 
an additional £1, so the difference was about to be £3.50. Mrs H says that she was told she 
had to upgrade her account again in order to keep her overdraft. But just a few months prior 
to this upgrade Mrs H had her overdraft increased and approved for a further year. So, given 
that she had been specifically told this, I find it unlikely that she would believe that something 
had changed in her circumstances so dramatically that she was required to upgrade her 
account to a Privilege Premier account.
To the contrary, I think its more likely Mrs H agreed to upgrade her account again, because 
of the banking benefits that the account offered.
I say this because when Mrs H agreed to upgrade again, the Privilege Premier account 
included a £260 interest free buffer on her overdraft rather than the £100 she held with the 
Privilege account, and a lower rate of interest (9.9%EAR versus 12.9%EAR) on balances 
overdrawn above that amount  up to the agreed limit. As Mrs H has insinuated that she 
could not use the insurance benefits that her account came with (though she has not 
explained why) I think the most likely scenario is that Mrs H agreed to the Privilege Premier 
account solely for the banking benefits that were included with the account. So I think that 
she agreed to the upgrade, in the knowledge that it included insurance benefits that she was 
unlikely to need and went ahead with the upgrade anyway. 
   
Once again, my understanding from Co-op, regarding their sale process at the time, it 
believes this account was not recommended to Mrs H. But as with the previous account, 
even if I were to conclude that Co-op had recommended it to Mrs H, I cant say that it was 
unreasonable to do so given that she was able to make use and benefit from the banking 
benefits that it provided. And again, whilst it included insurance products that she may not 
have needed, she couldnt pick and choose what it came with.
Given the lack of evidence, I accept that during both sales Co-op might not have given Mrs 
H all the important information about the account and the associated benefits that it 
shouldve done. But, given that I think she agreed to both accounts largely for the banking 
benefits, I dont think its likely that Mrs H wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
accounts had she been given even more information about the account benefits  which she 
herself has says she had no interest in.Finally, I do appreciate that Mrs H has had the Privilege Premier account for a long time, and 
she may now feel that keeping the account for all those years has been poor value for 
money. However, that doesnt mean that Co-op was wrong to have sold the accounts when 
it did. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Privilege and Privilege Premier 
accounts were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman