DRN-2349653
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold level-term life and critical illness cover by Bank of 
Scotland plc (Halifax) to cover a capital repayment mortgage.
What happened
In 2001 Mr D was advised to take out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) by Halifax to 
provide cover for a new mortgage. The TMPP included mortgage repayments cover, life 
cover and critical illness cover. 
Recently, Mr D complained to Halifax about the suitability of the TTMP. It upheld the part of 
the complaint concerning the mortgage repayments cover. But despite his concerns that the 
life and critical illness cover had been unnecessary, as hed been single with no dependants 
at the time of the advice, Halifax didnt uphold his complaint in respect of the other elements. 
In response, he also raised the issue that hed been sold level-term cover for a repayment 
mortgage, rather than more appropriate decreasing cover.
The complaint was referred to this service and considered by an investigator. He concluded 
that as a single person Mr D wouldnt have needed the life cover but wouldve benefitted 
from the critical illness cover. The investigator noted that Mr D already had some cover 
provided by his employer. But he explained that it was generally seen as prudent to take out 
dedicated cover for liability like a new mortgage, as employee benefits werent guaranteed to 
remain in place for the term of the mortgage. The investigator also agreed that decreasing 
cover wouldve been more appropriate, given that Mr Ds mortgage was on a repayment 
basis. 
The investigator suggested that Halifax compensate Mr D by comparing the cost of the life 
cover and critical illness cover provided by the TTMP (as the mortgage repayments cover 
had already been refunded) with the cost of decreasing critical illness cover only.
Halifax agreed to do this, but Mr D didnt accept the offer. He said he was disappointed with 
the investigators view, particularly given the different conclusions reached in an 
ombudsmans decision on a similar case.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its generally accepted that taking out some dedicated cover for a new mortgage is a prudent 
course of action. While other cover may already be in place  such as that provided by an 
employer  its unlikely to match the terms of the new borrowing or be guaranteed. 
But any cover recommended to protect the mortgage cover needs to be suitable for the 
borrower, reflecting their personal circumstances. In Mr Ds case, as a single person at the 
time of the advice, life cover wouldve been of little benefit. However, critical illness cover 
couldve been very beneficial, providing much-needed support if illness had led him to be 
unable to work, needing support or particular medical care.
So, I think its reasonable to conclude that critical illness cover was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D and that, as such, any compensation should reflect that. I also 
agree that it wouldve been more suitable for decreasing cover to have been recommended 
to cover a repayment mortgage, to avoid Mr D being left over-insured.
I note what Mr D has said about the decision made by another ombudsman about a similar 
complaint. But we always consider each complaint on its own, specific merits. While there 
may, on the face of it, be similarities between some complaints, there will also be differences 
that are not always apparent from reading a final decision.
Putting things right
Halifax should compensate Mr D by comparing the cost of the level-term life and critical 
illness cover his policy provided with the cost of a decreasing-term critical illness policy and 
pay him the difference, plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date each premium was 
paid to the date of settlement.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
I direct Bank of Scotland plc to compensate Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman