DRN-2151422
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
or around February 2005. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold him PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
The mortgage covered Mr M for accident, sickness and unemployment at a cost of £31.25 
per month. The mortgage was a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). A TMPP is a type 
of protection policy which typically includes payment protection insurance (PPI) together with 
other features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements 
of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. I see Mr M also took 
added CIC to his plan. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Ive noticed that Mr M hasnt said he didnt know he had agreed to take this policy, or that he 
was told he had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude he agreed to take out each policy 
because it was a form of protection he wanted to have. Although much of the sale paperwork 
from the time is no longer available, I think this is supported by Mr M having provided 
information to show he was eligible for the cover when he made his mortgage application. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Ive 
seen that BoS took steps to do this at the time. And the evidence about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable 
for him.  As Ive said, Mr M was eligible for the cover and although hes told us about having 
some work benefits if he wasnt able to work, these would only pay out for somewhere 
between 3 and 6 months. The PPI would on the other hand pay out for up to 12 months if he 
made a successful claim. Given how long Mr M had been in his job, I think the PPI would 
have lasted for longer than any redundancy entitlement he had as well. Mr M also told us 
that hed have been entitled to a death in service payment from his employer. But that type 
of benefit would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death, not if he was off 
sick or were to lose his job. So I think he still had a need for the cover. 
There was nothing else Ive seen about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for him to claim. Although Mr M says he had a medical condition quite some 
time before the policy was taken out I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended 
it. I say this because the condition seems to have been a one-off occurrence that was 
treated at the time and fortunately had no further consequences. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr M would have declined the cover had BoS done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
other exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he 
would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman