DRN-3814066
The complaint
The estate of Ms B (the estate) complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money 
that was sent to its customers accounts. 
Mr V, the executor of the estate has a representative  Mrs H who has assisted him in 
bringing this complaint. For ease of reading I will mostly refer to Mrs H, but where relevant 
the reference should be understood as meaning Mr V and the estate.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide a brief overview of the relevant events below. 
In July 2017 Ms S, an employee of C  the bank where the estates account was held, was 
appointed as the executor of the estate. In November 2018 Mrs H sent an email containing 
the correct account details for all five beneficiaries of the estate to the lawyer dealing with 
the estates matters. This was then forwarded onto Ms S to arrange for the beneficiaries of 
the estate to be sent funds in accordance with the instructions in the will. But sadly, the email 
was intercepted, and the account details changed. In December 2018, this resulted in Ms S 
sending five payments totalling over $378,000 from the estates bank account with C to five 
unknown third-party accounts. Two payments were made to two accounts held with another 
bank that Ill refer to as N. These payments were stopped and later returned. The other 
three payments (which are relevant to this complaint) totalling over $302,000 were made to 
three different accounts all held with Barclays. One of these payments was returned. The 
estates lawyer provided Ms S with new account details for where the payment was to be 
re-sent. Allegedly this instruction was also intercepted, and the account details altered. The 
payment credited another unknown third-party account which was also held with Barclays. 
When the expected funds didnt arrive, the beneficiaries notified Ms S  who says she 
informed C  who contacted N and Barclays requesting that the funds be returned. The 
matter has also been reported to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and 
the Police in the UK and US.
In April 2019, unhappy that Barclays had not returned the funds, Mrs H sent a detailed report 
to Barclays. No confirmation of receipt was received but a sum of $92,806.24 was returned 
to C. Mrs H raised a complaint. Barclays responded to say Mrs H should contact C and ask 
them to notify Barclays of the fraud. It also told Mrs H that it could not share any information 
about its customers accounts with her. It later explained that formal notification from the 
remitting bank is required to mitigate the risk of a malicious claim from unverified parties and 
that privacy laws prevent it from sharing third-party data.
Mrs H says, for a number of reasons, the beneficiaries of the estate were not happy with 
Ms S conduct. Eventually in December 2019 after being served notice to attend court to 
begin proceedings to have Ms S removed as executor of the estate, she resigned, and Mr V 
was appointed as the new executor.
Mrs H complains that unlike N  Barclays failed to identify that the payee name on each 
payment instruction did not match the details of the respective account into which the 
payment was credited. She also complains Barclays have refused to share any information 
about this matter with them or C. And feels its likely Barclays did not act swiftly when the 
fraud was reported allowing the fraudsters to spend the funds that otherwise may have been 
recoverable. She would like Barclays negligence investigated and asked our service to 
independently consider the matter. Our Investigator concluded that this service had no 
power to investigate the estates complaint against Barclays as it wasnt considered an 
eligible complainant under our rules. Mrs H did not accept the Investigators conclusions 
and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
On 30 August 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained the limits on which 
parts of Mrs Hs complaint against Barclays I could consider and why. In short, I explained 
our service could only look at acts or omissions that took place on or after 31 January 2019. 
This is because that was the date from which a change to our jurisdiction rules applied. 
Specifically, this meant that I was limited to only being able to consider how Barclays 
responded upon notification of fraud in relation to the payment of $37,822.14 that was made 
to one of its customers accounts; and its response to Mrs Hs request for it to share with her 
all the beneficiary accountholders details.
My provisional decision (on the aspects of the estates complaint I can consider) followed on 
1 November 2022, in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend on upholding this complaint. I know this will be a very 
disappointing outcome for Mrs H and the beneficiaries of the estate, so I will explain why.
Firstly I want to assure Mrs H that Ive read and considered all her submissions  including 
those which comment on Barclays general conduct and more recently, the fine (for unrelated 
matters) which has been imposed on them by the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). But my role here is to consider the individual circumstances of the aspects 
of the estates complaint against Barclays which I do have the power to look into and decide 
whether I can fairly and reasonably ask it to refund any of the estates outstanding loss.
Ultimately what Mrs H would like is for Barclays to return the funds which were paid into its 
customers account. However, it would only be fair for me to direct Barclays to reimburse any 
remaining loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent this loss or did something wrong 
where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Mrs H has provided an extract from a response issued by C in November 2020 which says 
Despite the fact that C processed the wires according to the authorised instructions, Cs 
personnel attempted to recall the associated funds. To date, C has recovered $163,703.53 
from a combination of N and Barclays and returned them to the Estate account. Please see 
enclosed account statements from April, July, and August 2019. The remaining funds were 
depleted and C is not in a position to recover them. Accordingly, indemnity letters would not 
be issued as there were no remaining monies to recover.I agree with Mrs H that Cs response would suggest that Barclays, at some point, informed C 
that no funds remained in relation to the account which received the payment of $37,822.14. 
Its unclear from everything Ive seen when exactly C were informed of this. Naturally, I 
would expect this to raise concerns and questions around whether proper action was taken 
by Barclays upon receipt of notification, and whether there were delays that impacted the 
sum that couldve been recovered?
With that in mind, Ive reviewed the corresponding account statements and I am satisfied 
that by the time Barclays received notification of fraud in relation to this payment in 
April 2019, the money had already been spent and there were no funds remaining which 
Barclays couldve returned to C. For completeness I have also considered if there was 
anything more Barclays couldve reasonably done on or after 31 January 2019 that wouldve 
prevented any of the estates loss or meant that more funds wouldve been available for 
recovery. Having done so, Im satisfied it couldnt, as the disputed funds had already been 
spent before this point.
Cs response also contained the following comments: Additionally, C is not in a position 
to, nor responsible for, providing any internal investigative materials that may have been 
generated by a third party, specifically Barclays. We are not aware that any such documents 
even exist. Furthermore, we are not able to give customer information for consumers banked 
by another financial institution. Any request for information generated by Barclays should be 
directed to that entity.
Mrs H asked Barclays to share with her details about its fraud investigation (including 
information about the recipients of the funds). Barclays said it cant disclose details about its 
fraud investigations or details of the person(s) involved due to data protection. Mrs H doesnt 
agree. She says the Data Protection Act (the DPA) provides an exemption for the prevention 
and detection of crime. She thinks Barclays are hiding behind the DPA and it shouldnt be 
used as an excuse not to share information.
I appreciate from Mrs Hs perspective, given the sizeable loss which remains and the fact 
that N managed to successfully prevent the loss of the payments sent to its customers 
accounts, why she has so many questions (and concerns) about what happened in relation 
to the payments which were sent to Barclays customers accounts. Therefore, 
understandably Barclays response that its unable to disclose any information to her felt 
unsatisfactory. But I do not consider that Barclays is obliged to provide detailed information 
about any fraud investigations it carries out on its customers accounts or the actions it took 
in relation to third-party accounts. That type of information is not generally disclosed, 
because it includes personal data and may include sensitive information about a banks fraud 
prevention systems and security processes.
I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling on this matter, but Barclays are required to comply 
with privacy laws. And if Barclays do not have a lawful basis for holding and processing data 
(which includes disclosing that information to a third party) it will be in breach of those. To be 
clear, Im not saying that privacy rights are an absolute. I accept there are limited 
exemptions to some of the obligations. Ive considered these and in these specific 
circumstances, I dont think there is an exemption or an enactment which would allow 
Barclays to share a third-partys personal data with Mrs H directly (or with C). So I cant say 
that Barclays have acted unreasonably or unfairly by not sharing these. But if this 
information were requested by an appropriate authority (such as the Police) or by order of a 
court, I would expect Barclays to co-operate.I note Mrs Hs general dissatisfaction with how Barclays have communicated and handled 
the entire matter. But unsatisfactory responses and/or delays in providing a complaint 
response isnt a basis upon which I could fairly direct Barclays to refund the estates 
outstanding loss. Of course, I recognise that it wouldve been frustrating for Mrs H to be told 
by Barclays to contact C for assistance and then for C to say Barclays should be 
approached directly. But Barclays have correctly explained that the process (followed by UK 
banks) for reporting payments made as a result of authorised push payment (APP) fraud is 
for the payers bank to send notification to the recipient bank. One of the reasons for this is 
to mitigate the risk of malicious claims from unknown parties, which to be clear isnt 
something Im suggesting has happened here. The recipient banks responsibility would then 
be to carry out its own investigations before updating the payers bank (not the payer 
directly) about whether any funds remain, which based on Cs response to the estate in 
November 2020, Barclays appears to have done.
I appreciate the beneficiaries of the estate have experienced considerable pain and suffering 
with the passing of their relative, which understandably has been exasperated further by the 
fact that her legacy has been stolen by fraudsters. Of course, I have considerable sympathy 
for the situation in which they find themselves. I accept the whole incident will have been 
upsetting and would have caused distress. But ultimately, I think the majority of this stems 
from the actions of the fraudster and matters which are outside this services jurisdiction. Ive 
also not seen any evidence (in relation to that which I can consider) that persuades me that 
Barclays acts or omissions have reasonably resulted in a loss that otherwise wouldve been 
prevented or in the recovery of further funds. Therefore, it follows that it wouldnt be fair nor 
reasonable to tell Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or points they wished to make 
before I made a final decision. 
Mrs H responded to express her disappointment with the outcome but made no further 
comments for me to consider. 
Barclays said it had no further points.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs H nor Barclays have provided any new evidence or arguments in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my findings above. 
So for the reasons I have set out in my provisional decision, I cant tell Barclays to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman