DRN-3053207
The complaint
Mr N and Mr D have power of attorney to act for Mrs W. They complain on her behalf, that 
TSB Bank plc wont give Mr N access to her joint account. They say the account shouldnt 
have been set up as a joint account, as the other account holder didnt have the mental 
capacity to understand what she was agreeing to.
What happened
Mr N and Mr D were appointed as attorneys for Mrs W in February 2020, which gave them 
authority to make financial and welfare decisions on her behalf. 
TSB gave Mr N access to the bank accounts held solely in Mrs Ws name. However, it said it 
couldnt give access to her joint account without the agreement of the other account holder, 
which is Mrs Ws daughter.
Mr N says Mrs Ws daughter doesnt have the capacity to give consent. Hes provided a 
guardianship order which gives Mrs W the authority to make decisions for her daughter. 
Mr N says Mrs Ws daughter is now in a care home, and he needs access to the joint 
account funds to pay for her care.
TSB says the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) has confirmed to its legal team that the 
guardianship order is for welfare only; it doesnt cover Mrs Ws daughters finances. TSB 
says Mrs W has no right to access her daughters funds or to manage her finances. 
TSB has asked the local authority who, if anyone, has authority to manage Mrs Ws 
daughters finances; but it says its yet to receive a response. 
TSB has told Mr N that it cant give him access to the joint account until the required financial 
order is in place, and its directed him to the OPG to discuss the options. TSB also told him if 
he has information that contradicts what its legal team was told by the OPG, he should 
forward this evidence to TSB, so it can be reviewed. 
TSB also told Mr N that if Mrs Ws daughter requires funds, he can contact specific people at 
TSB, so they can discuss how TSB can support her until the issue is resolved. TSB says its 
added a note to the account, confirming it will allow payments to the care home, providing 
TSB is given a letter from the care provider. 
Mr N has told us that hes in the process of obtaining a guardianship for Mrs Ws daughter, 
with full welfare and financial authority. He also says the local authority has no financial 
authority.
Mr N is unhappy that TSB wont give him access to the joint account despite having power of 
attorney covering joint accounts. He also says TSB hasnt followed the OPGs advice about 
splitting the account in half, to give him access to Mrs Ws share. Mr N makes the point the 
account shouldnt have been set up in the first place given Mrs Ws daughter didnt have 
capacity, and Mrs W didnt have the authority over her daughters finances.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He thought TSB had acted appropriately, 
and fairly. Because Mr N disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account terms explain that both account holders must give permission for someone else 
to use the account. That term is important here, as its what both account holders agreed to 
when taking the account out.
The power of attorney document confirms that it applies to Mrs Ws joint accounts. However, 
Im not persuaded that means TSB needs to give the attorneys access to her joint account 
without regard to the interests of the other account holder. But rather, if the other account 
holder agrees, then the attorneys can access the account as if they were Mrs W.
Turning to the guardianship, even if this gives Mrs W authority to make financial decisions on 
behalf of her daughter, Ive not seen anything that leads me to believe the authority would 
pass to Mrs Ws attorneys.
Mr N says the local authority doesnt have financial authority over Mrs Ws daughter. I accept 
what he says here. However, until it can be shown who does have the necessary authority, 
I dont consider TSB to be acting unfairly. Its right to be cautious, in my view.
Mr N says the OPG has advised TSB to split the joint account. TSB says it hasnt received 
such guidance. Our investigator asked Mr N to provide evidence from the OPG to support 
what he says, but that information hasnt been forthcoming. Mr N says hes offered our 
investigator the relevant third-party contact details, so he can obtain the necessary 
information. However, as explained by our investigator, its for Mr N to provide the 
information he wants us to consider. Hes given him fair opportunity to do so.
In my view, TSB is also acting fairly by offering to consider releasing payments to the care 
home. Mr N disputes that TSB has made this offer. I accept TSB may not have specifically 
mentioned care home payments to Mr N, but Ive seen its told him he can make contact if 
Mrs Ws daughter needs access to funds, so it can discuss how it can support her. 
Mr N questions how TSB can release payments to the care home, if no one has the authority 
to take funds from the account. However, the point is here, TSB is trying to find a reasonable 
balance between protecting Mrs Ws daughters financial interests, and ensuring she has 
access to the appropriate care. TSB is doing all it reasonably can, in the circumstances.
Mr N says he has since called the contact number he was provided with, to discuss financial 
support for Mrs Ws daughter, but he was told he has no authority. Its disappointing to hear 
this, given what TSB has said about the notes on the account. If Mr N doesnt consider the 
staff are following the account notes, about releasing payments to the care home, he can 
make a new complaint to TSB about this.
Ill turn now to how the account was originally set up. The account was set up in 2009, and 
TSB has limited information available from that time. Its provided a document signed by 
Mrs W and her daughter, to show they opened the joint account together. The account was opened after the guardianship order was issued in 2006. However, Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to believe TSB was aware in 2009, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, Mrs Ws daughter was under a guardianship order. Based on the information 
available, I cant reasonably decide TSB ought to have questioned the opening of a joint 
account between a mother and daughter  or the capacity of the daughter. Mr N doesnt 
know what circumstances were presented to TSB in 2009.
Furthermore, whilst I accept there are now difficulties with accessing the account, theres no 
suggestion that the account hasnt been in Mrs Ws and her daughters interests, or to their 
benefit.
In any event, even if I was to decide that TSB shouldnt have opened the joint account, this 
wouldnt mean I could reasonably direct TSB to give Mr N access.
As I understand it, Mr N is going through the process of obtaining guardianship for Mrs Ws 
daughter. TSB will need to reassess its position if that guardship is received, or if its 
provided with information that shows another party has the necessary authority.
My final decision
I accept this situation has been very frustrating for Mr N, and Im sorry to disappoint him and 
Mr D. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr D, on 
behalf of Mrs W, to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman