DRN-3848022
The complaint
Mr B complains to Monecor (London) Ltd  then trading as ETX Capital  about losses on 
his trading account flowing from a margin call he believes was triggered by an artificial price.
 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, the key facts and arguments are as follows:
- Mr B first opened a trading account with ETX in September 2020. He told them he 
had relevant knowledge and experience in order to be considered an appropriate 
candidate for trading. 
- In March 2022, across three ETX accounts Mr B had several spread bet positions 
open on a stock I will refer to as C. Shortly after 9am on 7 March 2022, Mr Bs 
positions in C were closed due to margin requirement. 
- Mr B was unhappy about this as he didnt think the price ETX said C had fallen to 
was correct. So he complained to ETX later that month.
- ETX looked into Mr Bs concerns and sent him their final response letter in April. 
They pointed to their terms that allowed them to close trades when margin wasnt 
maintained and referenced their margin call alert to him on 4 March. They set out the 
levels of each account at the time and didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
- Unhappy with this, Mr B asked for our help. He still felt the price quoted was 
inorganic and stressed that while he appreciated the margin requirements, he felt 
ETX didnt have to close as many positions as they had  if theyd have left some, 
hed have been able to manage his positions back to profit. 
- One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but didnt agree ETX had 
done anything wrong. They checked the ETXs liquidity providers price feed and 
though there was brief fluctuation, they saw the price that triggered the margin call 
and thought it to have been a valid bid price. For this reason, they didnt think ETX 
had wrongly closed positions. 
- Mr B remained unhappy  he still felt too many positions had been closed and had 
ETX closed only as many as were necessary, hed have got a return. 
- Our investigator took another look at the regulators rules but didnt think they 
supported what Mr B was saying about closing less positions. Instead they thought 
ETX had acted reasonably and explained the rules were in place to stop retail clients 
from suffering unlimited losses  they didnt have the flexibility to wait to see if 
positions recovered.
As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind and agreement wasnt reached, the 
case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I appreciate Mr Bs complaint is two-fold  firstly, he doesnt agree the price 
for C was actually hit and secondly, that ETXs actions went further than they needed to. Ill 
look at both in turn. 
Before I begin, I note that in offering a platform for spread betting, ETX as a regulated 
business must follow relevant rules that flow from intervention in the sector by the European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in 2018. Relevant here was the requirement for Mr 
B to have enough equity  being the total unrealised value of open positions and the account 
balance  on his account to fund his running positions. 
When considering the price of C at the time, ETX have shared data with us from their 
liquidity provider  theyve explained that their price feeds flow from a system that pulls 
valuations from another independent provider. This shows that at 9:05am on the day in 
question, Cs price fell to 15.503. Until 9:10am the price remained around 15.798, before 
recovering from 9:21am onwards. Mr Bs positions were closed at 15.462. While this was 
fractionally lower than the independent price feed quote, Im satisfied that it was indicative of 
the market at the time. For this reason, I dont agree with Mr B in that the price he was 
closed at wasnt achieved. 
As Im satisfied weve been able to verify the prices at the time, Ive also considered the 
equity across Mr Bs three accounts in order to consider whether the positions were correctly 
closed. Looking to ETXs terms applicable from October 2021, section 13 discussed margin 
requirements. Of particular relevance here was 13.7 which reminded Mr B to ensure he was 
always aware of the status of his accounts and to ensure he had sufficient trade funds 
available to maintain positions. ETX considered trade funds available to be the amount of 
money in a trading account that was free to be used for satisfying margin requirements. At 
13.8, it said in part:
If your Trade Funds Available balance is below zero (0) or we reasonably believe that 
a fall below zero is imminent regardless of whether or not prior Margin Calls have 
been issued, we may in our sole discretion close or terminate open Trade(s) on your 
Trading Account without notice to you immediately
And at 13.12, it said:
If you do not have sufficient Trade Funds Available or a Margin Call is not met by you 
 in accordance with this clause 13, depending on the trading platform we may in 
our discretion: 
(a) close out any or all (in whole or in part) of your open Trades; 
(b) exercise our rights of set off and netting under this Agreement; or
(c) close all of your Trading Accounts and not open any further Trades for you.
Looking at the equity on each of Mr Bs three accounts at the time, we can see the following:
Account one:
- Balance of £662.06,
- Margin requirement of £386.55,
- Running profit and loss was -£497.76,
- Meaning the trade funds available were -£222.25. 
- As this was 43%, the positions were closed. The balance and trade funds available 
then recovered to £370.75 and £1.95 respectively. 
Account two:- Balance of £423.55,
- Margin requirement of £248.17,
- Running profit and loss was -£298.27,
- Meaning the trade funds available were -£122.90. 
- As this was 50%, the positions were closed. The balance and trade funds available 
then recovered to £265.31 and £0.82 respectively. 
Account three:
- Balance of £348.58,
- Margin requirement of £197.14,
- Running profit and loss was -£268.35,
- Meaning the trade funds available were -£116.91. 
- As this was 41%, the positions were closed. The balance and trade funds available 
then recovered to £175.95 and £2.95 respectively. 
So from what Ive seen, each of Mr Bs accounts was at 50% or below when his positions 
were closed. This was in line with ETXs terms at 13.12 and 13.8. These terms were also in 
line with the regulators requirements, where at 22.5.13R the FCAs conduct of business 
sourcebook said:
Margin close out requirements for retail clients
(1) A firm must ensure a retail clients net equity in an account used to trade 
restricted speculative investments does not fall below 50% of the margin 
requirement (as outlined in COBS 22.5.11R) required to maintain the retail 
clients open positions.
(2) Where a retail clients net equity falls below 50% of the margin requirement, 
the firm must close the retail clients open position(s) on restricted speculative 
investments as soon as market conditions allow.
(3)In this rule, net equity means the sum of the retail clients net profit and loss 
on their open position(s) and the retail clients deposited margin.
I appreciate Mr B makes the point that ETX couldve closed some of his positions, and not all 
of them  after all, this mightve been enough to satisfy margin and he thinks theyd have 
gone on to be profitable. But their terms allowed them to close close out any or all (in whole 
or in part) of your open Trades. The regulators rules didnt prescribe how firms must handle 
margin calls or which positions should be closed, so ETX had discretion here  but from 
everything Ive seen they acted reasonably and in line with their terms.
Mr Bs positions were spread across three different accounts and all of them needed more 
margin. But I dont think ETX could have only closed positions on one or two of the accounts 
and relied on the balances there to run the other account(s)  the European Securities and 
Markets Authority guidance told ETX they had to manage margin on a per account basis. It 
wasnt for ETX to manage Mr Bs funds for him by moving a balance between accounts, nor 
could they have been expected to take a higher level view of Mr Bs situation before 
following their terms. 
Though Mr B feels ETXs actions were disproportionate, they were required to take steps to 
protect his account when he fell below 50% margin  even if only briefly as what happened 
here. Though with hindsight we can see Cs price recovered, its important to remember the 
regulations require firms to take action at 50% as the market couldve slipped lower and 
lower. And the action ETX took was in line with what the regulator asks and what they said 
theyd do. So from everything Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair to ask ETX to 
compensate Mr B now.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman