DRN-2142436
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused to repair a stain on his armchair as 
it says it was caused by a build-up of body oils and not through sudden and accidental 
contact with a substance. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons.
The policy only provides cover for stains that occur suddenly and through accidental 
contact with a substance. So, it wont provide cover for stains or damage that has 
built up over time. 
Great Lakes has said the engineer carried out testing which confirmed the staining 
had built up over time and there was evidence of body oils within the leather. They 
also said from the settlement of the foam and colour loss, it is clear the arm rest has 
had a lot of use within that area. 
Mr C has said he cleaned the armchair with the manufacturers product, but only this 
area of staining occurred. He also said he doesnt use the arm rests to get up from 
the chair. Had the cleaning product caused the stain, I would have reasonably 
expected other areas of the armchair to have been affected. The engineer has 
provided photos of the affected area which I think demonstrates heavier use of the 
arm rest in the area of the stain, in comparison to the other arm rest on the other side 
of the chair. 
Great Lakes has provided an opinion from an expert as to how the staining has 
occurred. In this case and based on the evidence Ive seen, Im more persuaded by 
this. I think Great Lakes fairly and reasonably concluded the stain wasnt caused 
suddenly and as such I wont be asking it to do anything more here.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman