DRN-1692534
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Santander (trading as Abbey at the time). At 
the same time, they took out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage payments if 
either of them was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Both the mortgage and the PPI were in Mr and Mrs Gs joint names. The monthly benefit of 
£857 was split between Mr and Mrs G, so that they'd have received 60% of the full monthly 
benefit if Mr G had made a successful claim, and 40% if Mrs G had made a successful 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs G say, in summary, that they have no recollection of agreeing to take PPI, or of 
there being any mention that it had been included. And they say their sick pay and other 
means meant that they didn't need the cover.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive been provided with a copy of a letter that Santander sent Mr and Mrs G after 
their meeting with its mortgage adviser. Under the heading Your needs it says We 
identified that you wouldn't be able to afford your monthly mortgage and related 
outgoings if you were unable to work though accident or sickness or were made 
involuntarily unemployed. You told me that you wanted £857 per month to cover your 
monthly mortgage and related outgoings, if you couldn't work through accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment. The letter went on to recommend that Mr 
and Mrs G take out Abbey Paymentcare (a form of PPI) to cover their monthly 
mortgage and related outgoings. And it said that they had accepted the 
recommendation.  
 Ive also seen Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer. It includes a section on insurance. It 
says clearly that they aren't required to take out any insurance through Abbey.  So 
taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Santander made Mr and Mrs G 
aware that the PPI was optional. And I think they chose to take it knowing that they 
didn't have to, after discussing their needs with Santanders adviser. But I can 
understand how they may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. That means it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for their needs. But it doesn't look as if it 
was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
 
Mr and Mrs G have told us that Mr G would have received six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. 
And Mrs G would have been entitled to less than three months sick pay. The PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr and Mrs G received from their 
respective employers. And it would have paid their mortgage for up to 12 months per 
successful claim, which is longer than theyve told us either of them would have been 
entitled to full sick pay for. 
 
Mr and Mrs G have mentioned that in addition to his salary, Mr G was receiving a 
pension from a previous employment. But they've told us this only amounted to a few 
hundred pounds per month. So I think its likely that thered still have been a 
significant impact on Mr and Mrs Gs household income if Mr G had been off sick for 
an extended period, given that his sick pay would have halved after six months. Mr 
and Mrs G have also told us they had critical illness cover and life insurance. But 
those are different types of cover, and wouldn't have paid out in the same 
circumstances as PPI. 
 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G have told us they had some savings that they could 
have used to make their mortgage repayments. Theyve provided some evidence to 
support what they say. But I've borne in mind that theyd chosen to protect their 
savings, rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI would have 
enabled them to continue to preserve their savings, or to spend them on other things 
if either of them had been off sick, or lost their job. 
 
The mortgage was a significant financial commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Gs 
property, and the consequences of not keeping up with their monthly payments could 
have been serious. And taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have 
been useful for Mr and Mrs G. 
 
The monthly cost of the policy was shown clearly on the welcome letter Santander 
sent to Mr and Mrs G. So I think theyd have known how much theyd need to pay for 
it. And as they were paying for the policy monthly, they could have cancelled it at any 
time without further charge if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no 
longer wanted the cover. I note that Santanders records show that Mr and Mrs G did, 
in fact, cancel the policy in 2006, just under a year after taking it out.
 Its possible Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover  for 
example unusual employment arrangements, or existing medical conditions. But from 
what Mr and Mrs G have told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely 
theyd have been affected by any of these. So I don't think that better information 
would have put them off taking out the PPI.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman