DRN-3124465
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M have complained that The New India Assurance Company
Limited refused to pay a claim on their commercial insurance policy following a fire.
Mr S and Mr R, directors of M, have brought the complaint on Ms behalf. M is also
represented in bringing this complaint but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and
comments as being those of M.
What happened
M held a commercial insurance policy with New India. It contacted New India to claim on its
policy following a fire in May 2019. The fire was identified at around 15.00 when crackling
noises were heard and flames seen coming from a stack of pallets.
New India appointed a loss adjuster to look into what had happened. The loss adjuster in
turn appointed a consulting scientist to consider how the fire had started. Ill refer to the
consulting scientist as B.
B said the pallets were located near to a lidded skip which was used for burning material.
The skip was surrounded by a bay area comprising of a U shaped brick wall around three to
four metres high. The lid of the skip had gaps in and there was a gap at the front between
the skip and the lid for pieces of wood to be added. B said CCTV showed that at 13.48
someone put items in the skip, and at 13.49 smoke was seen coming from it, followed by
flames flickering within the skip. B said that at 14.32 a small flame was seen coming from the
metal stillage at the base of the pallets nearby however, the fire wasnt noticed by M until
later.
B also said that the fire service had been informed of two kids on scooters being on the
premises  though no evidence of this had been found by the fire service. B said that M had
told them that, the day after the fire, a hole in the perimeter fence had been found, which
could only have been caused between the morning of the fire and the following day when it
was found. B added that M had previously reported an incident of intruders building a den in
the pallets.
B said that plausible explanations for the fire were either a burning particle being ejected
from the skip or human agency. They said that although no embers could be seen being
emitted from the skip, it was possible that one was ejected and landed on combustible
material causing the fire. B thought this was consistent with where the embers would have
been expected to land given the wind direction on the day. But B said it was also possible
that intruders had started the fire. B thought it would have been possible for someone to
have broken the fence and start the fire behind the pallets without being seen on any CCTV,
although they would have been close to where Ms employees were working. Overall, B
concluded that it was less likely that the fire was started by intruders.
New India said the policy originally contained an endorsement to specify that there wouldnt
be cover for any burning of waste material on site. However, as M let them know it burned
small pieces of wood on site, New India changed the endorsement to state that it was a
condition precedent to liability that only small pieces of wood could be burnt on site, as long
as the fire was 10 metres away from buildings and manned at all times while the burning of
the wood took place.
New India said that it appeared that the fire was lit at around 06.00 most days and added to
throughout the day. They said, there was a metal stillage containing timber to be burnt and a
stack of pallets in close proximity to the skip where the burning took place. New India didnt
think the fire pit was manned, as everyone identified on the CCTV were doing other tasks
rather than watching the fire. New India said M had breached the condition precedent and as
such declined the claim.
In October 2019, M appointed a forensic investigator to look into what had happened. The
investigator took witness statements from some employees who said once the fire had been
lit in the morning they would watch it from a few metres away and then put the lid back on
top of the skip. The investigator said a couple of pieces of wood had been put into the skip at
around 13.45, but no flames had been identified.
The investigator said that there were some bricks behind the pallets, over two metres away
from the skip. He said the charring was more severe at the back of the bricks, indicating that
the direction of the fire was from the back of the pallets rather than from the skip area. The
investigator said he had reviewed the CCTV and at no time was there sign of any flames
or burning embers being emitted from the skip.
The investigator set out reasoning for why he didnt think the fire could have been started by
the material in the skip and concluded that: the fire started at the back of the pallets; the fire
wasnt started by the burning material in the skip; its likely the fire in the skip had
extinguished and so wouldnt need to be manned; and the most likely cause of the fire was
that it had been caused deliberately by unknown persons.
M also said that a number of other fires had been started deliberately in the local area and
provided online news articles to New India to support this.
New India disagreed with the conclusion of Ms investigator and pointed out that the
investigators visit to the site of the fire was some months afterwards when much of the
debris and the skip had been removed. They said CCTV hadnt picked up any intruders in
the grounds and no holes had been found in the perimeter fence on the morning of the fire.
New India said the skip wasnt manned at the time of the fire and, if it had been, this would
have lessened the impact of the fire. They remained satisfied that the breach of the condition
precedent was material to the claim, so refused to pay it.
As M was unhappy with New Indias decision it brought its complaint to our service. It said
the report of intruders hadnt been raised to the fire service by its employees, but by a
member of the public and the police had used a helicopter to search for the intruders.
Our investigator didnt recommend Ms complaint was upheld. Having viewed the CCTV
footage, he thought flames could be seen coming from the skip at 13.49 and as such he
agreed it was more likely that an ember from this had caused the fire, rather than intruders
setting a fire close to where Ms employees were working. He didnt think the skip was
manned and as that was material to the loss that had occurred, he thought it was reasonable
for New India to turn down Ms claim.
M asked if its forensic investigator could discuss his findings with B. However, New India
didnt agree to this. M therefore asked for its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
M noted that B had recognised there were employees around the area of the skip, which
would indicate the skip was manned and the condition precedent wouldnt apply. M also saidit was situated in a small town where another building had recently been destroyed by arson
during the day.
Before reaching a decision I asked New India to comment on whether the endorsement
defined the risk as a whole when considering the Insurance Act 2015 (The Act). New India
said the condition defined the risk and the breach was causative of the fire.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 September 2021. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The endorsement on Ms policy says:
It is a condition precedent to liability the [sic] no burning of materials or waste is
undertaken at the Premises other than small broken off bits of wood in a small
purpose build [sic] burning pit which is at least 10 metres from the buildings and 
is manned at all times while the burning of the wood takes place.
I therefore think the first point I need to decide is whether New India has shown that M
breached the condition precedent to liability.
Did M breach the condition precedent to liability?
Both B and Ms investigator had access to CCTV which captured the skip and surrounding
area at the time of the fire and for a couple of hours before. B said that material was put into
the skip at 13.48 and flames could be seen within the skip at 13.49. Ms investigator said that
there were no flames seen coming from the skip. In another part of his report he said, there
were no flames visible and that the fire was most likely extinguished. Ive also considered
the statement of Ms employee who said that he didnt recall anything burning when he put
wood into the skip.
Ive watched CCTV clips, which I understand are incorrectly time stamped so I will use the
corrected times given by B. While I couldnt see any flames exiting the skip, the CCTV does
appear to show flames within the skip itself at 13.49. I say this because you can see
flickering in the skip on the CCTV footage. So, Im more persuaded by B that there was a fire
in the skip at 13.49.
There is a dispute between New India and M about what needs to have taken place for the
skip to have been manned. New India said this means that someone should have been
watching the skip at all times while there was burning material. M thinks that the skip was
manned as it constantly had someone in the area of the skip while material is burning.
As manned isnt defined within the policy Ive considered what I think to be a reasonable
interpretation of it. I think its fair and reasonable to say that for the skip to be manned there
would need to be someone near the skip who was responsible for checking that the fire
within it didnt spread outside of the skip and who was close enough to take action if it did.
The CCTV shows an employee in the area for a few minutes after flames can be seen within
the skip and, although they are undertaking other tasks, I think they are generally close
enough to take action. However, after a few minutes the CCTV indicates that employees
are either not in the area of the skip or are more focussed on other tasks than the skip. So, I
think the skip was unmanned shortly after flames can be seen in the skip.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for New India to say that M breached thecondition precedent because the skip wasnt manned at all times while there was burning of
wood taking place.
As I think it was reasonable for New India to conclude that M breached the condition
precedent, I then need to consider whether its reasonable for New India to rely on the
breach to turn down the claim.
Is it reasonable for New India to rely on Ms breach of the condition precedent to liability to
turn down its claim?
Its relevant to consider section 11 of the Act which provides:
11. Terms not relevant to the actual loss
(1) This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance,
other than a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to
reduce the risk of one or more of the following
(a) loss of a particular kind,
(b) loss at a particular location,
(c) loss at a particular time.
(2) If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not
rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the
contract for the loss if the insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3) The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with
the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred
in the circumstances in which it occurred.
(4) This section may apply in addition to section 10.
In its submission to our service, New India hasnt said that it thinks the condition precedent
in Ms policy relating to the burning of wood is a term defining the risk as a whole. Therefore,
Ive considered section 11 of the Act, as if it bites this will mean that New India isnt able
to rely on non-compliance with the requirement to man the skip to exclude its liability.
So, the first question I need to consider is whether the condition requiring the manning of the
skip when wood is being burnt is a term that tends to reduce the risk of a loss of a particular
kind (section 11(1)(a) being the most applicable category here). In my view, compliance with
a term requiring an area containing burning wood to be manned is one that would tend to
reduce the risk of loss of a particular kind  ie the purpose of the skip being manned is to
ensure that the risk of the fire spreading is minimised.
The next question I need to consider is whether section 11(3) of the Act is satisfied in this
case  ie can M show that non-compliance with the condition could not have increased
the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred?
Its not for me to decide how the fire most likely started. Instead, I need to decide if
New India has made a fair and reasonable decision in saying that M hasnt shown that 
noncompliance with the condition precedent couldnt have made the loss more likely in the 
circumstances that it occurred.
New India has relied on Bs report that concludes that its most likely that the fire occurred as
a result of an ember from the skip. M disputes this, as it and its investigator think its most
likely the fire was as a result of arson.
Ms investigator has provided a very detailed report explaining how fires can be started and
why in his opinion the fire wasnt started by an ember from the skip.However, Im less persuaded by Ms report than by Bs. This is because Ms investigator said
there werent any flames visible and also said that it was likely the fire had been
extinguished. However, the CCTV indicates that there were flames in the skip. Ms
investigator also said that it was apparent from the witness statements that the skip was
closely supervised until the flames die down. However, CCTV indicates that while there
were flames in the skip the relevant employee at times had their back to the skip or went
behind the pallets. The employee also didnt recall there being flames after putting the wood
into the skip on this occasion, which suggests it wasnt closely supervised.
Ms investigator also said that pallets arent a suitable material to sustain a smouldering
ignition source. But the investigator hasnt commented on whether debris or vegetation in the
area could have set alight which then set fire to the pallets. Ms investigator has said that a
smouldering fire would take a long time to burn and could take a few hours, but I note that it
was almost an hour between the flames being seen in the skip and a small flame being seen
near the pallets and there was also material burnt in the skip earlier the same day. I accept
that the CCTV of the skip doesnt show any embers being emitted but I dont think these
would necessarily show up on CCTV.
Ms investigator thinks its most likely that the fire was a result of arson. M has provided
newspaper articles showing other local arson attacks, including one during the daytime while
people were around. M also said it discovered a gap in the fence on the morning following
the fire and that the fire service had been given reports of intruders.
However, I understand from the report of Ms investigator that the fire services report
describes the main cause of the fire as likely to have been an accumulation of flammable
material (presumed to be the wooden pallets) and the source of ignition as spread from a
secondary fire. While I understand the fire service didnt investigate the cause and their
findings were a presumption, this does indicate that they didnt think the most likely cause
was intruders.
Bs report said that, while intruders could have entered Ms premises and reached the area
behind the pallets without being seen by CCTV, the presence of people working in the area
would have put off intruders. Instead, B thought it more likely that an ember had been
emitted from the skip. B said the debris from the fire had been cleared away from the area at
the time of their visit, but they thought the ember had landed at the back of the pallets, which
is consistent with where Ms investigator thought the fire started. B said this is where they
would expect an ember to have landed given the wind direction on that date.
Taking all of this into account Im more persuaded by the findings of B. I think New India has
demonstrated that on the balance of probabilities M didnt comply with the condition
precedent to liability. And I dont think M has shown that not complying with the condition
precedent couldnt have made the loss more likely in the circumstances that it occurred. I
appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S and Mr R were hoping for, but I dont intend to
uphold Ms complaint.
M said it didnt agree with my provisional decision but had no further comments other than to 
reiterate that it had been told that it was impossible for the ember to rise over the wall and 
start the fire. New India said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand M was told that it was impossible for an ember to have started the fire. 
However, my provisional decision set out my reasoning for why I dont think M has shown 
that not complying with the condition precedent couldnt have increased the risk of the loss in 
the circumstances that it occurred. As I havent seen any further comments to change my 
mind, Im not going to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman