DRN-1670965
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) suspended travel 
insurance cover for an existing medical condition, despite previously agreeing to cover this. 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a single trip travel insurance policy. At the time of taking out the 
policy, Mr T declared that he had an enlarged prostate. ERV agreed to cover this condition 
for an additional premium. 
Before going on the trip, Mr T was found to have raised PSA levels following a routine blood 
test. He had further investigations and it was recommended he have a biopsy. 
Mr T called ERV to advise it of this. ERV said it wouldnt cover anything related to his 
prostate until the results of his biopsy came back (the results were expected back before his 
trip was due to start). 
When the results of the biopsy came back, sadly Mr T was found to have prostate cancer. 
ERV said it would cover this, but only for an additional premium. Mr T eventually agreed to 
pay the additional premium and the trip went ahead. However, he and his wife brought a 
complaint to this service about ERVs decision to exclude cover for his prostate whilst he 
was undergoing investigations. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the policy terms 
made it clear that ERV wouldnt provide cover for a pre-existing medical condition when 
awaiting the results of any test. She said if Mr T had decided to cancel the holiday, shed 
have expected ERV to cover any costs incurred in doing so. However, as Mr T decided to go 
ahead with the holiday, she thought ERV had been entitled to ask that he pay an additional 
premium for it to cover his new condition of prostate cancer. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy explains that if the insureds health changes after purchasing the policy (such as 
being placed on a waiting list for investigation), they should contact ERV where further 
questions would be asked about their condition. The policy then explains:
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for the 
condition that has undergone significant change. If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which 
cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health. 
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium. 
The policy also says:
The insurance will also NOT cover you for any of your pre-existing medical conditions 
whether diagnosed or not, if you have any undiagnosed symptoms that require attention, or 
investigation in the future (that is symptoms for which you are awaiting 
investigations/consultations, or awaiting results of investigations, where the underlying cause 
has not been established), or are awaiting any medical procedure, surgery, radiotherapy, 
chemotherapy, or dialysis.
When taking out the policy, Mr T disclosed he had an enlarged prostate. ERV was willing to 
cover this risk, subject to Mr T paying an additional premium  which he did. 
Mr T then experienced a potential change in health. During a routine blood test he was found 
to have raised PSA levels. This can be an indication of prostate cancer, and so a biopsy was 
arranged. Mr T quite rightly called ERV to advise it of this. 
ERV decided to withdraw cover for any claims relating to Mr Ts prostate until the biopsy 
results were available. Given that the biopsy results were expected before Mr T was due to 
travel, it doesnt seem unreasonable that ERV wanted to know the results before making a 
decision on whether to provide cover. If the result had been negative and there hadnt been 
a change in health, then presumably ERV would have been able to reinstate cover on the 
same terms as before. 
When Mr T advised ERV that he was having a biopsy, he quite understandably wanted to 
know what his options were if he needed to cancel his holiday. Unfortunately, ERV 
incorrectly advised Mr T at this time that he wouldnt be able to make a cancellation claim. 
The approach of this service is that where there has been a change of health and an insurer 
withdraws cover as a result - wed expect the insurer to cover the costs of cancelling a trip. 
However, I see that ERV later clarified that Mr T could make a cancellation claim if he had a 
change in health. 
Unfortunately, the biopsy results showed that Mr T had prostate cancer. That meant the risk 
to ERV had changed. It said it was willing to cover Mr T, but hed need to pay a much higher 
premium for it to do so. 
If Mr T hadnt wanted to pay the additional premium and had instead wished to cancel his 
holiday, Id have expected ERV to consider a cancellation claim (in line with the policy terms 
above). However, Mr T decided to pay the additional premium so that he could have cover 
for his condition and go ahead with his trip. That was of course up to him. 
Mr T makes the point that ERV took on the risk of enlarged prostate months prior to any 
diagnosis, and then walked away from this. He says this goes against all the principles of 
insurance that the insurer can walk away when the illness is diagnosed. 
Its apparent from reading Mr Ts submissions that he has a lot of insurance knowledge, and 
I do understand the point hes making. However, with travel insurance policies, changes to 
health which take place before the insured event (ie the trip) are generally considered relevant, regardless of when the policy itself was taken out. Its usual for travel insurers to 
require the insured to let them know of any changes to health before the trip starts. 
In Mr Ts case, ERV agreed to cover the risk of enlarged prostate when he took out the 
policy. If Mr T hadnt had a change in health but needed to make a claim relating to his 
enlarged prostate, Id have expected ERV to cover it. And if Mr T hadnt known about his 
change of health before the trip but then needed to make a claim relating to his prostate 
cancer, then again Id have expected ERV to cover this. 
However, Mr T did find out about the change in health before his trip. Under the policy terms, 
ERV was entitled to assess this new risk and decide if it wanted to cover it. 
Therefore, whilst I recognise that ERV gave Mr T wrong information about his options for 
cancelling when he initially advised it of his potential change in health, Im satisfied it later 
put this right. It seems this wrong advice didnt disadvantage Mr T, as he didnt intend to 
cancel his trip at the time. And whilst I can understand Mr Ts frustration that ERV charged 
him a further premium in order to cover his prostate cancer, Im satisfied that it was entitled 
to do so under the policy terms, given there had been a change to his health after the policy 
started. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman