DRN-2876191
The complaint
Mr M has complained on behalf of an organisation, K, about the way National House-
Building Council (NHBC) has dealt with a claim made on an NHBC Buildmark warranty.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr M and other members of K bought new homes covered by ten-year NHBC 
warranties. He got in touch with NHBC to report problems with the guttering and 
downpipes. Particularly where gutter brackets had broken under pressure from snow.
NHBC offered its Resolution Service. It said the gutters were installed according to 
the manufacturers guidelines and that meant the work complied with its Technical 
Requirements. It didnt require the builder to do anything, but I understand the builder 
agreed to repair the brackets anyway.
The manufacturer reviewed the problem and NHBC inspected the gutters again. It 
accepted there had been a failure in the performance of the gutters. In summary it 
said the builder should reduce the spacing of the gutter brackets or fit snow guards.
The builder chose the first option. After further snowfall, Mr M said 15 gutter brackets 
had failed. The manufacturer inspected the problem again and recommended snow 
guards be installed. NHBC said the builder had complied with its Resolution report 
and Technical Requirements and nothing further was required.
Mr M complained and NHBC maintained its position. Mr M referred his complaint to 
this service and our investigator considered NHBC had acted fairly. Mr M disagreed, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC has accepted responsibility for the downpipe problems. Some work has been carried 
out and NHBC has offered a cash settlement to cover the remainder. This part of the claim 
isnt in dispute, so I havent considered it. Mr Ms complaint is about the gutters failing under 
the pressure of snow. So thats what Ill focus on.
As the gutter problem was raised within the first two years after the property was built, the 
claim was considered under Section 2 of the warranty. In summary, Section 2 says it 
provides protection if the builder failed to meet NHBC Requirements. And NHBC will be 
responsible for anything it decides the builder should have done  but didnt.
NHBC says the relevant Requirement is 7.2  S1 which includes guidance that all sitework 
shall  take account of the design. Its second Resolution report accepted there was a 
failure in the design and that had caused a problem with the gutters. In summary it 
considered the builder should have taken the steepness of the roof and the likelihood of 
snow into account when designing the relevant parts of the gutter system.
NHBC decided the builder should do something. It recommended the builder resolve the 
problem by carrying out one of two options  reduce the bracket spacing or install snow 
guards.
I dont think theres any dispute that both options were, at that time, reasonable. Theyre 
consistent with the guidance found in a British Standard: in areas where snow lies on roofs, 
the front edge of the gutter should not be higher than the projected line of the roof, unless 
snow guards or other precautions are used. NHBC says it used other precautions by 
reducing the bracket spacing. And it was consistent with the view of the manufacturer, who 
said reduced bracket spacing or a snow guard could resolve this kind of problem.
The builder reduced the spacing but that didnt overcome the design problem. The gutters 
were damaged again after further snowfall. After that the manufacturer said, we strongly 
advise that a snow guard is installed. This remedy is specified in the British Standard. And 
NHBC included it in the second Resolution report. So it seems to be accepted the snow 
guard option was a suitable way to ensure a lasting and effective solution to the design 
problem. Mr M asked NHBC to carry out or pay for the snow guard option.
NHBC didnt agree to do so. Its argument is essentially that it asked the builder to pick one 
of two options. Either option was a reasonable one in order to comply with its Technical 
Requirements. And the builder carried one of them out. So that means the builder did what it 
was asked, and the warranty doesnt cover doing anything further than that.
Im required to consider what the warranty covers as well as whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Having done so, Im not persuaded NHBC has acted fairly.
NHBC doesnt dispute the option the builder took failed to overcome the design failure. That 
means NHBC identified a problem caused by a breach of the Technical Requirements, made 
recommendations to deal with it, and the problem hasnt been solved. Despite that, NHBC 
has declined to provide further support to Mr M. Im not persuaded that amounts to treating 
Mr M fairly or reasonably.
Theres no dispute the snow guard option  which was available to the builder and one of the 
recommendations made by NHBC  would be a suitable solution to the design failure. In 
these circumstances, Im satisfied it would have been fair and reasonable for NHBC to carry 
out or pay for the snow guard option.
Mr M has since arranged for the snow guard work to be carried out at a cost of £3,565 plus 
VAT, which comes to £4,278. Im satisfied it would be fair for NHBC to pay this amount. It 
should also add interest from the date the invoice was paid until it pays the settlement.
  
What Ive decided  and why
NHBC responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to 
make.
Mr M also said he had nothing to further to add.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision and neither party has provided any 
further comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require National House-Building Council to:
Pay £4,278;
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on the above amount, from the date the invoice 
was paid until the date NHBC settles the above amount.
*If NHBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman