DRN-2486827
The complaint
Mr K complained that he got poor advice regarding his ISA from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide).
What happened
Mr K had a Save to Buy Individual Savings Account (STB ISA) with Nationwide. In 
December 2015 he visited a branch to ask about the new Help to Buy Individual Savings 
Account (HTB ISA) launched by the government. These paid a 25% bonus under certain 
criteria. In October 2019 he was told that the STB ISA didnt attract a 25% bonus.
He complained that the branch staff told him there was no difference between STB ISA and 
HTB ISA. So, there was no point in transferring from one to the other. He therefore 
continued to save in the STB ISA until October 2019 when he was looking at buying a house 
 when he found out that it didnt have the government bonus he thought it would. He said 
that he had therefore missed out on the bonus  which he said had cost him £1779.81.
Nationwide responded in November 2019. They said that all their STB ISA customers had 
been mailed in December 2019 with details of the new HTB ISA. They couldnt comment on 
what had happened in the branch, but their staff were trained in the products and the branch 
was aware of the differences between the two savings offers. There was no regulatory 
obligation for the staff to advise Mr K about the HTB ISA, but they should have told him 
about it. As this hadnt happened, they offered Mr K compensation of £100. He declined this 
and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. In July 2020 and January 2021, she said that 
the mailing in December 2019 described the new HTB ISA and its general benefits. It said 
that it was different to the STB ISA. The letters pointed to the government website for more 
information. Mr K received annual statements on his STB ISA showing his savings. Looking 
at what had been said at the branch, there were conflicting accounts. But Nationwide were 
under no regulatory obligation to advise Mr K to open an HTB ISA. Savings accounts were 
sold on a non-advised basis, meaning that Nationwide could give Mr K information about the 
products - for him to decide what he should do. She thought that the compensation offered 
by Nationwide was reasonable.
Mr K asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how strongly Mr K feels about this. He firmly believes that the branch staff 
told him there was no difference between the two accounts and there was no need to 
transfer to the new HTB ISA. And he visited the branch at the time of the mailing about it in 
December 2019  when he and the staff were aware of the launch of the new product.
But in coming to a decision here, I cannot say what was, or wasnt said during Mr Ks branch 
visit. I have seen testimonies from Nationwides branch staff that they were fully aware of the 
differences between the accounts and that they wouldnt have misinformed Mr K. Mr K says 
otherwise.
The savings accounts are not regulated products. This is different to, say, stock market 
linked investments where there are strict rules that must be followed where giving advice, 
depending on a customers circumstances. For savings accounts such as the STB ISA and 
HTB ISA, Nationwide were only required to show Mr K the two accounts and it was up to him 
to make his own mind up as to what to do. Nationwide believe they did this through their 
mailing in December 2019. 
The mailing in December 2015 did point out there were differences between the STB ISA 
and HTB ISA. And it said that customers should go to the government website for more 
information. It said Help to Buy: ISA could be good option for first time buyers saving for a 
deposit on an eligible home. Its a cash ISA, where you could qualify for a 25% Government 
Bonus on your savings (up to a maximum Bonus of £3,000), subject to meeting the eligibility 
criteria.If youre considering opening a cash Help to Buy: ISA, please read the eligibility 
criteria carefully, as it is different from Save to Buy. Just visit helptobuyisa.gov for more 
information.
Mr K received annual statements for his STB ISA. Ive seen these addressed to Mr K. These 
pointed to Nationwides website and its Savings Selectoran online tool designed to show 
you which of our accounts might suit you best. So, Nationwide were giving Mr K the 
opportunity to review what savings accounts were right for him. 
So, I think that Nationwide did provide Mr K with enough information with which to decide 
whether he should open an HTB ISA. I fully appreciate that Mr K says that the branch staff 
told him otherwise, but I hope he can see that its not possible for me to make a decision 
based on what might, or might not, have been said in the branch. 
So, I know that Mr K will be very disappointed with my decision, but I think that Nationwide 
acted reasonably, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here. They have offered Mr K 
compensation of £100. He rejected this, but if he wishes to receive this, he should contact 
Nationwide to arrange for it to be paid to him. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman