DRN-3375475
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy, relying on the fraud term in its policy.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim under her policy to Lloyds in June 2020 for accidental damage to her 
laptop computer. She said the damage occurred at home when the laptop fell from her lap 
onto the floor.
Lloyds arranged for the laptop to be examined by its technical experts. The experts report 
concluded in July 2020 that the damage couldnt have occurred as described by Mrs S as 
they said it was inconsistent with what could reasonably have occurred in such 
circumstances. They considered that the laptop was beyond economic repair.
Mrs S had made a claim for damage to her laptop some six months previously, when she 
said that it fell out of her rucksack onto a concrete pavement, but she later cancelled this 
claim as her laptop started working again.
The technical experts considered that neither incident could have caused damage to this 
extent. 
Lloyds didnt consider the claim to be genuine. It therefore declined the claim, cancelled the 
policy and retained the premium. It also attempted to arrange for the laptop to be returned to 
Mrs S, in default of which it said it would arrange for it to be destroyed. It had also offered 
compensation of £50 for delay for the time taken between the technical experts report being 
received and the recommendations being actioned.
Mrs S said that the main issues and concerns were that Lloyds hadnt validated her claim, 
her insurance policy had been cancelled, her laptop had neither been repaired nor returned, 
her premiums had increased due to the claim and shed been accused of exaggerating the 
claim and supplying false information.
Mrs S was unhappy with Lloyds actions and referred her complaint to our service. Initially, 
our investigator upheld the complaint. Following receipt of further evidence from Lloyds 
however, our investigator then decided that the complaint should not be upheld. 
Having reviewed the photographs of the damage, our investigator was persuaded that the 
damage wasnt consistent with the claim details. She accepted Lloyds view that there was 
no apparent damage consistent with the laptop falling on the floor with a force that bent and 
snapped the hinges. She also accepted that if the laptop had fallen on the floor with 
sufficient force to snap the hinges, it was likely that there would have been other visible 
damage.
Our investigator concluded that there was insufficient evidence to discount the experts 
findings. She noted that they also mentioned water damage, however she didn't think this 
was the reason the claim had been declined. She therefore didnt change her findings. She 
made it clear that the service was required to decide what was fair based on the evidence, 
and she was of the view that the evidence showed that Lloyds had dealt with the claim fairly.
Mrs S remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue which I must determine is whether Lloyds has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner in applying the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy. I cant say that 
its acted unfairly or unreasonably for the following reasons.
I turn to the wording of the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy as my starting point. 
Firstly, subject to the full terms and conditions, the policy covers the policyholder in principle 
for accidental damage to computer equipment.
The policy also includes a reasonably standard provision as follows: -
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of our 
policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly: provides information 
or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly exaggerates a claim; or otherwise 
acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy; then cover under the policy will end 
from the date of the fraudulent act and we: will not pay any part of a fraudulent or 
exaggerated claim; will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act; will 
retain any premium you have paid; may recover any payments made to you or on your 
behalf and any costs and expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim
Turning to what Mrs S said about the case, she said the laptop fell from her lap onto the floor 
face down, so breaking the hinges. As to the incident which occurred to the same laptop in 
December 2019, shed reported that it accidentally fell out of her backpack onto a concrete 
pavement. She said that after a couple of days, the laptop started working again and shed 
discontinued that claim. 
In August 2020, Mrs S referred to the incident in 2019 as being damage caused when the 
laptop accidently fell off her lap, rather than when it fell out of her rucksack while she was 
walking (as previously reported). She reiterated that the laptop started working after a couple 
of days of that incident and she didnt experience further problems with it. 
Mrs S couldnt believe that the question of whether the laptop fell from the bag or her lap, 
was now so important to doubt the claim. She said shed explained what she could recollect 
and also that reference to the laptop falling off her lap in December 2019 was a typo; 
probably because I used my phone to write the email as I had no laptop.
Mrs S didnt consider that the report from Lloyds technical experts was wholly independent 
or impartial, since the experts were instructed by Lloyds and it didnt clarify an alleged cause 
of damage. She said that shed been clear, consistent, and honest in her explanation as to 
how the laptop became damaged. She explained that following the accident, the hinges 
came loose, and subsequently broke off because shed carried on using the laptop after it 
fell, as she desperately needed to use it for her work. Mrs S also referred to alleged liquid damage which Lloyds mentioned. Even if there had 
been such damage, she said that her insurance covered this in any event. She said Lloyds 
were unable to explain why this was the deciding factor to label her claim as being 
fraudulent.
Mrs S said that shed been a loyal customer, paying over £1,000 annually to Lloyds for her 
cover. She didnt think there was any evidence to prove that her claim was fraudulent as 
there would have been no real benefit in making such a claim, beyond getting her laptop 
repaired. She said this was evidenced by the fact that shed since had the damaged laptop 
repaired independently and that it was now working.
Mrs S was also extremely concerned about the far-reaching consequences and the potential 
impact an adverse decision would have on her personally and upon her integrity. She said 
shed been without household and contents insurance because of the ongoing case. She 
thought that a finding of a fraudulent claim would make it even harder for her to get 
insurance cover in the foreseeable future.
Turning to what Lloyds say about the case, it said that it thought that the damage was too 
severe for it to have been caused in the way Mrs S had described. It had gone back to its 
technical experts who stated that, given the built-in resistance in the hinge past a certain 
point, they didnt consider that a drop to the floor would be great enough to cause the extent 
of damage. They couldnt see how it would be great enough force to bend it past that 
resistance point and snap the hinge; given that the momentum of the fall is minimal and the 
force would transfer immediately to the ground. It said that the images of the damage clearly 
showed where the hinges had come away from the display mount points, which had also 
damaged the display bezel along the bottom edge. 
It stated that when this type of laptop opens, it doesnt open a full 180 degrees, so if it was 
dropped with the display extended as far as possible and facing down towards the floor, it 
would the camera and trackpad area of the display which would sustain the impact first. 
There was no visible damage to these or to the display glass. Lloyds considered that if it had 
identified a possibility of deliberate damage or fraudulent activity, then it was entitled to make 
an informed decision to reject the claim and cancel the policy.
Lloyds suggested that the laptop had been deliberately and forcefully opened by hand, much 
further than the display was meant to open, which in turn had snapped the hinges. It 
additionally noted liquid damage found, which indicated an inconsistency with the claim. In 
conclusion it stated that the claim was declined due to the extent of the damage. It 
concluded that excessive force would have been required to cause it. It didnt consider that 
Mrs S had provided a satisfactory response to its challenge questions. It said theyd 
contacted Mrs S for her laptop to be returned, however had been unable to reach her.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence produced by both Lloyds and Mrs S, including 
photographic evidence and the report of the technical expert. Mrs S stated that the damage 
to her laptop was caused when it fell from her lap, and therefore presumably from a sitting 
position and a short distance to the lounge floor. Mrs S has supplied a copy of an invoice 
from a laptop repair company, dated May 2021 however, this doesnt provide a technical or 
other explanation for the extent of the damage to the computer and appears to relate to a 
different serial number. Lloyds on the other hand has provided detailed analysis from a 
technical expert as to likelihood of the damage by an accidental fall from knee-height. 
The photographic evidence supports the position of the Lloyds technical expert in that it 
shows the damage to be excessive for the damage scenario described by Mrs S. I consider 
it more likely than not that the damage didnt occur in the manner described by Mrs S. The 
evidence doesnt conclusively prove that the damage was caused deliberately or how the damage actually happened. However, its for the policyholder to show that damage was 
accidental and that the events described were genuine to make a valid claim on her 
insurance. 
As the version of events doesnt tally with the damage, I cant say that the claim was valid on 
the balance of probabilities. Im satisfied that something more significant must have 
happened. Ive also noted that there may have been additional damage caused by liquid at 
some stage, however this is not the central issue around why the claim was declined and the 
policy cancelled, and so this doesnt change my conclusions.
I do however note that in August 2020, Mrs S didnt provide an entirely consistent version of 
events and later indicated that shed made a typographical error in stating that the 2019 
incident related to the laptop falling from her lap rather than from a rucksack when she was 
walking. I also note the inconsistency regarding the laptop serial number in relation to the 
repair quote produced by Mrs S. Although Mrs S wonders why the August 2020 discrepancy 
would be so important to doubt the claim, its relevant to the extent that it adds doubt to the 
reliability of recollections as to what damage has happened and when, and the 
circumstances surrounding such damage.
In conclusion, I cannot say that Lloyds has unfairly or unreasonably applied the above term 
of the policy in relation to Mrs Ss claim. The experts report casts considerable doubt on Mrs 
Ss version of events and there is insufficient evidence provided by Mrs S to persuade me 
otherwise.
I appreciate the impact that this will have upon Mrs Ss insurance situation and will cause 
inconvenience to her. Im however required to consider the evidence as presented. Our role 
is to decide whether an insurer has acted unfairly or unreasonably in considering whether a 
policyholder has made a fraudulent or exaggerated claim. This can be determined by one 
piece of strong evidence such as the report of a technical expert; or it could be the existence 
of inconsistencies that individually wouldnt be enough to show fraud but, when put together, 
persuade us. In this case, I consider that there is both strong evidence to show that the 
laptop wasnt damaged in the way described by Mrs S, and also that there are 
inconsistencies in Mrs Ss version of events.
In conclusion Im satisfied that Lloyds has acted neither unfairly nor unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Ss claim and cancelling her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and I dont require 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do any more in response to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman