DRN-3455677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Accord Mortgages Limited declined their request to port 
(transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage. As a result, they had to 
take out a mortgage with a new lender, and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to 
Accord.
To settle the complaint they would like Accord to reduce the ERC to the amount theyd have 
paid if they had been able to port the mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 25 February 2022 and 7 April 2022. All parties have 
copies of those letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what 
happened really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine 
why a complaint has been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I 
dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified.
Briefly, in 2018 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Accord, on the advice of a mortgage 
broker. They borrowed £328,995 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 33 years. The 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of interest until 31 July 2023. If the mortgage was repaid (in 
part or in full) before that date, an ERC would apply.
The mortgage also allowed the interest rate product to be transferred onto a new mortgage, 
with a window of six months to complete the new mortgage. If the new mortgage was for a 
lower amount, an ERC would only be payable on the surplus repaid to Accord.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs B decided to relocate, approximately 150 miles from their existing home. 
They applied to Accord to port the mortgage. The application was for a mortgage of 
£259,000 against a purchase price of £275,000 over a term of 33 years 6 months, an 
increase in the mortgage term of about three years. They intended to pay off unsecured 
debts of about £36,000 out of the proceeds of sale of their existing property.
After considering the application, Accord wasnt able to offer a new mortgage, as it 
considered this to be unaffordable. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy about this. They were able 
to find a new mortgage from another lender, but at a higher rate of interest. They had also 
paid an ERC of about £9,500 to Accord when they redeemed their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B complained. They wanted Accord to reimburse the difference between the 
ERC on the full redemption and the ERC theyd have paid if theyd been allowed to port 
£259,000 of their mortgage to the new property.
Accord didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response, Accord explained that there had 
been a material change to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, as a result of which the 
application could not go ahead.
Dissatisfied with Accords response, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Initially the investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
thered been any change to the mortgage contract that was material to affordability. As a 
result, he thought Accord could have allowed the port without any assessment of 
affordability.
The investigator asked Accord to refund the difference in the ERC paid and the amount that 
would have been paid if Mr and Mrs B had ported the mortgage, along with interest, broker 
fees and conveyancing costs. He also thought Accord should refund the difference in the 
interest rate on the Accord mortgage and the higher rate on the new mortgage, up to 30 
June 2023. The investigator also asked Accord to pay £150 compensation.
Mr and Mrs B agreed with the investigators findings, but Accord did not. Accord explained 
that the mortgage term had been extended and so would run further into Mr and Mrs Bs 
retirement, ending when Mr B would be aged 77 years and Mrs B 73. Because this was a 
change that was material to affordability, Accord said it had been entitled to look at 
affordability. Although Mr Bs job was based elsewhere, he could work from home, and his 
income was unaffected. 
Mrs Bs income, however, had significantly reduced since 2018 and on examination by 
Accord, was much lower than declared on the application. In addition, Mrs B would not be 
able to continue with her current employer; instead shed need to transfer to a new franchise 
owner. Unfortunately, Mrs B wasnt able to provide confirmation of secure employment, and 
as a result, Accord was not persuaded that the mortgage would be affordable.
The investigator reconsidered the complaint in the light of this information. As a result, he 
changed his mind and thought that Accord had been entitled to assess affordability, and to 
decline the application.
Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They say that they think 
Accord is relying on the request for a term extension as a tactical move, as their new 
mortgage with a different lender is over a shorter term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are rules in place that cover the situation where an existing borrower wants to port 
their mortgage that I have to consider. These rules followed on from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage Market Review (MMR). The MMR led to a series of major 
changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules 
have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The FCA recognised 
though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their mortgages might have 
difficulties with this if they passed the tests under the old rules, but not under the new rules. 
So the FCA introduced certain rules to address this. 
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt have to carry 
out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage 
and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no changes to the 
terms of the mortgage that affect affordability. However, Mr and Mrs B did want to extend the term of their mortgage by another three 
years, which extended further into Mr and Mrs Bs retirement. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Accord was entitled to carry out an affordability assessment.
Accord is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Accord makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for Accords 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Im satisfied that Accord fairly considered Mr and Mrs Bs application. Its concerns about the 
stability of Mrs Bs income were, in my opinion, reasonable. Mrs B was earning about 30% of 
her previous salary, and, due to the relocation, wasnt able to provide confirmation that shed 
be able to continue in employment once the move took place. 
Given this, Im not persuaded Accord acted unfairly in declining the application to port. This 
means that there is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order Accord to 
reimburse either the ERC, the expenses incurred in taking out the new mortgage or any 
additional interest Mr and Mrs B are paying on their new product. Because Im satisfied 
Accord has done nothing wrong, Im not ordering it to pay any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. But after careful consideration of 
all the evidence, Im not persuaded Accord has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman