DRN-2051233
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the interest and charges which Clydesdale Bank Plc added to 
his account. He has also complained that it wrongfully registered a default on his credit files.
What happened
Mr Rs account went into an unarranged overdraft in April 2018. The balance outstanding at 
the time was £38.57
Clydesdale began adding interest and charges to the account. It sent Mr R monthly fees and 
debit interest summaries. From May 2018 onwards, it sent him several letters which 
explained:
the balance outstanding
why it was adding interest and charges
asking him to pay the outstanding balance or to contact its financial care team or a 
debt advice agency.
Eventually, in October 2019, Clydesdale registered a default with the credit reference 
agencies against Mr Rs name.
Mr R didnt think it was fair for Clydesdale to add interest and charges to his account. 
He said he had tried to contact the bank to discuss his financial situation but the opening 
hours for the Financial Care Team clashed with his own working hours. He said he got a call 
back while he was at work, but it wasnt convenient to talk. When he suggested a more 
convenient time the call handler was rude to him and said they were too busy to call him 
back again.
He raised a complaint with Clydesdale and asked it to remove all the interest and charges 
from his account.
Clydesdale didnt uphold his complaint. It said its Financial Care team closed at 9pm 
weekdays and is open on Saturdays from 8 am to 5pm. Its Customer Assist Team closes at 
6pm weekdays.
It also said that the interest and charges were applied in accordance with the terms and 
conditions for the account and that it had provided him with statements detailing the fees. As 
it had acted correctly, it didnt consider he was entitled to a refund of the interest and 
charges.
As Mr R didnt agree with Clydesdales decision, he asked this service to investigate. He 
said it wasnt fair for Clydesdale to add interest and charges or register a default.
An investigator looked into his case and decided to partially uphold it. He concluded that 
Clydesdale were entitled to add interest and charges to his account and to register a default. 
However, he thought it should have registered the default earlier in October 2018. He 
recommended that Clydesdale backdate the default to October 2018, and reduce the
outstanding balance to the figure as at 1 October 2018.
Clydesdale accepted the investigators recommendation. It agreed to reduce the outstanding 
balance by £292 leaving £410.57 to pay.
Mr R agreed to pay £410.57. However, he was still unhappy about the default. He said the 
bank didnt tell him it would be registering a default, and this was a breach of consumer 
credit law. He said if it had given him notice, he wouldve made arrangements to clear or 
reduce the outstanding balance. He said the default is affecting his ability to borrow money 
and that he was turned down for a mortgage.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R and Clydesdale have now reached an agreement on the amount of the debt. Mr R has 
said he is happy to pay £410.57. I think this is a fair and reasonable settlement of the dispute 
relating to the interest and charges. I dont propose to change it.
This leaves me with only the default to consider. 
Mr R is right to say that under consumer credit law, the bank must serve a default notice on 
the customer before it can take any formal action to recover the debt which is owed to it. And 
there is no evidence that Clydesdale served a default notice on Mr R. But the question I 
must consider is whether it is fair and reasonable for the default to remain on his credit files, 
despite the absence of a formal default notice. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im afraid I think it is.
This is because Mr R already knew his account was in debt. In October 2018, he contacted 
the bank because he wanted to continue using the account and he asked it to waive the 
charges. This confirms he knew about the debt. 
Importantly, Clydesdale sent him monthly summaries of the fees and debit interest which 
were added to his account. In addition, it sent him letters which detailed the debt, the interest 
and charges and which asked him for payment or to contact it if he needed to discuss his 
financial situation. In particular, there is a letter dated 15 June which mentions that the bank 
may pass on information about the money he owes to the credit reference agencies. This 
isnt a formal default notice, but I think he ought to have been aware that a default was a real 
possibility.
However, he didnt make any payments to clear or reduce the debt, which was unusual 
given that until April 2018 he had been making regular payments into his account. 
I appreciate he said it wasnt convenient to call the bank from work but according to 
Clydesdale he couldve called on a Saturday. So, I dont think the banks operating hours 
prevented him from contacting it or clearing the debt.
On balance, I think that even if Clydesdale had served him with a formal default notice he 
wouldnt have acted differently.
In these circumstances, I consider that Clydesdales refusal to remove the default is a fair 
and reasonable one.Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr R, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
Putting things right
I wont be asking Clydesdale to remove the default from Mr Rs credit files. I will be asking it 
to backdate the default to 1 October 2018, and to reduce the outstanding balance on the 
account to the amount owed as at 1 October 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am partially upholding this complaint. I am asking Clydesdale Bank 
Plc to:
backdate the default to 1 October 2018
remove the interest and charges, which were added to Mr Rs account from 1 
October 2018 to the date of this decision
restore the outstanding balance on the account to the balance as at 1 October 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman