DRN-3234544
The complaint
Mr K complains about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim on his mechanical breakdown 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The engine warning light appeared on Mr Ks car, so he took it to a garage for repair. The 
garage said the turbos had failed and needed replacing and that the insurer had authorised 
the repairs. Because of this Mr K agreed for the garage to repair his car. 
A couple of weeks later Mr K received a call from the garage to say the insurer had declined 
his claim. Mr K wasnt happy with this so asked to collect his car so he could take it to a 
cheaper garage for repair. The garage said as the car had been stripped down, he would 
need to pay to have it reassembled. Mr K paid £1,772.87 to have it reassembled so he could 
collect it. Mr K was unhappy with this and complained to AWP. 
AWP reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said Mr Ks car was overdue its 
service and because of this the claim had been declined. Mr K didnt think AWP had treated 
him fairly and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found that 
AWP hadnt explained why the overdue service would have contributed to the failure on Mr 
Ks car. She also didnt think it was fair for AWP to authorise repairs and then decline them 
causing Mr K to have to pay to have his car put back together. As she didnt think AWP had 
treated Mr K fairly, she recommended they pay Mr K what he paid to have his car put back 
together, reconsider Mr Ks claim and pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigator, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy cover him for the repair or replacement of covered 
parts that have suffered an electrical or mechanical failure. The policy says: 
Electrical or mechanical failure: Means the sudden and unexpected 
failure of a component which is covered by the warranty section of this 
insurance and which needs immediate repair or replacement.
AWP doesnt dispute that Mr Ks car has suffered a sudden and unexpected failure but has 
said its not covered as Mr Ks car was overdue a service. AWP havent said exactly which 
term or exclusion this is covered by, however looking at the exclusions in the policy it would 
appear its referring to this one which says the policy wont cover: 
repair or replacement required wholly or partially due to lack of 
maintenance, abuse or neglect or as a result of accident; 
I therefore need to decide whether AWP have applied the terms and conditions in a fair and 
reasonable way. And Im not persuaded they have. I say this because it would only be fair 
and reasonable to rely on this term if the overdue service contributed to the turbos failing. 
Our investigator asked AWP to evidence this and they didnt respond. As AWP havent 
shown the overdue service contributed to the failure, Im not persuaded its fair and 
reasonable to turn down Mr Ks claim. Therefore, AWP need to deal with the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr K also said he had to pay £1,772.87 as AWP authorised repairs and then declined them 
after the garage started work on his car. Our investigator asked AWP about this but again 
AWP didnt respond. Ive considered Mr Ks verbal evidence and Im persuaded this is what 
happened. I say that because it wouldnt make sense for Mr K to agree for the garage to 
dismantle his car and start the repairs and then pay to have his car put back together. It 
appears that hes only incurred this cost because of AWPs actions. It therefore follows that 
AWP should repay Mr K this money, AWP should also compensate him for the time his not 
had the money by adding 8% simple interest to this amount. Calculated from the date he 
paid it until the date it makes payment. 
Ive also considered the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr K has had by AWP 
incorrectly turning down his claim, him having to have his car collected and not having use of 
it. I agree that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount for AWP to pay Mr K to compensate for 
this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AWP P&C SA to:
Reconsider Mr Ks claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
Pay Mr K £1,772.87, plus 8% simple interest per annum on this amount, calculated 
from the date he paid it until the date it makes payment
Pay Mr K £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman