DRN-3685556
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr C saw an item for sale on a well-known social media online marketplace, that he was 
interested in buying. He contacted the seller, by way of messages, and asked if the item was 
still available. Mr C has said that he had previously purchased items from the marketplace 
and felt safe using it. Hes told us he could see the seller had held an account on the social 
media platform for some time, and that there were regular posts and comments. Due to the 
distance between Mr C and the seller, he wasnt able to view the item, but hes said hes 
bought items before without viewing them, and never had any problems. 
Believing everything to be genuine, on 1 November 2021, Mr C went ahead and made a 
payment for £228 to the bank details provided by the seller. But after making the payment, 
he became concerned, when he didnt receive any tracking information and he found he was 
blocked when he tried to message the seller. Unknown to him at the time, Mr C had been 
dealing with a fraudster and had sent his payment to an account controlled by the fraudster.
 
Mr C raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in 
this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Mr C on 18 November 2021, not upholding his complaint. 
In summary it said there had been no errors made in handling Mr Cs claim. It added that it 
hadnt been able to recover the money Mr C lost and it didnt feel Mr C had taken enough 
steps to check who he was paying and that it had given several warnings. Monzo did 
apologise to Mr C for the waiting times he experienced and credited his account with £25, as 
a gesture of goodwill in recognition of this. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr C then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that Monzo 
should refund Mr C the money he lost, along with interest. In summary, our investigator 
didnt think Monzo had established that it shouldnt reimburse Mr C on the basis that he had 
ignored an effective warning, nor had it established that Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing he was making a legitimate payment. Our investigator recommended Monzo 
should refund Mr C the money he lost, along with interest. 
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary it didnt agree that it was fair or 
reasonable for it to reimburse Mr C under the CRM code, it said;
- Somebody having a social media account, doesnt provide any reasonable basis 
that a stranger on the internet will keep their promise.
- Although Mr C had received items hed ordered through the marketplace before, 
this provided no guarantee that any subsequent orders would be successful. And 
that a good experience with one person, doesnt mean the next person who 
advertises will also provide a good experience.
- It didnt consider this was a complex scam and there was no reasonable basis for 
Mr C to believe the seller would be legitimate and provide a legitimate item as 
promised.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Mr C the money he 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr C 
lost.
- The money was taken from Mr Cs current account. It is not clear how Mr C would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year, 
from the date Monzo decided not to refund Mr C under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ive carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr C had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, I dont think it would 
have been evident to Mr C that there was a risk with this purchase, I say that because;
- Mr C saw the item he was interested in on a well-known social media platforms 
marketplace. He engaged with the seller through a number of messages. From 
reviewing these messages, I dont consider the seller was applying any pressure 
(which can often be the indicator of a scam).
- I also dont think the price the item was being sold for could be considered as too 
good to be true, whereby Mr C should reasonably have had doubts about the 
legitimacy of the item or the seller. Mr C had bought a similar item, for a similar price 
previously. 
- The distance between Mr C and the seller meant it wasnt feasible to view the item 
before he made the purchase. But where Mr C had received purchased items 
successfully before, without viewing them, I can understand why he moved passed 
this without being overly concerned. - Monzo argue that just because Mr C had used the marketplace before, and had 
received items as promised before, it wasnt guaranteed that future orders would be 
successful. I agree. But this doesnt detract from it being understandable and 
reasonable that somebody who has not been scammed previously and who has 
successfully used a marketplace before, would have gained a degree of comfort from 
their previous experiences. 
- Mr C took the time to check the sellers profile and was further convinced this was 
genuine as the sellers profile had been in place for some time and had regular posts 
and comments. Monzo argue that this doesnt provide any reasonable basis that a 
stranger on the internet will keep their promise. I agree with Monzo, in that it doesnt 
guarantee a promise will be kept. But Monzo has failed to recognise that a genuine 
looking social media platform, that has been open for a number of years, can 
reasonably contribute to somebody being persuaded that they are dealing with a 
legitimate seller.
 
We mustnt lose sight here that Mr C had not been scammed before, and had used the 
marketplace on multiple occasions previously, without any problems. He is not an expert in 
all matters relating to frauds and scams, nor about how they work or can play out. The fact 
that the bank, as a professional in these matters, can think of additional things Mr C could 
have done does not mean that he did not do enough.
People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Mr C took reasonable, 
appropriate, and proportionate steps to try and protect himself. I dont consider he had any 
reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of that bargain. 
Monzo has said the warnings it provided to Mr C before he made the payment were 
effective. While the warnings, in part, intend to warn customers about potential scams they 
may be at risk of, I find that they dont meet the definition of an effective warning as set out 
by the CRM Code. The warnings highlight multiple potential scams. But they dont bring to 
life what the type of scam Mr C was falling victim to looks like, or highlight the common 
features of these types of scam.
All things considered, I think it fair and reasonable that Mr C thought he was dealing with a 
legitimate seller for a legitimate item when making the payment. Im satisfied Mr C took 
proportionate steps to try and mitigate any risk and that it wasnt unreasonable for him to 
proceed in making the payment he did. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Monzo has shown that Mr C lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, or 
that he ignored an effective warning. I can see that Monzo did send Mr C £25 in recognition 
of Mr C having to wait for Monzo to look into things, which I think was fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Mr C the £228 he lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Mr Cs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman