DRN-4009759
The complaint
Ms J complains about a claim settlement following a claim she made under her home 
insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd. 
QIC are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their appointed agents. As QIC have accepted they are accountable for the actions of their 
appointed agents, in my decision, any reference to QIC should be interpreted as including 
the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms J and QIC. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Ms J had a home (buildings) insurance policy with QIC since November 2021. In October 
2022, Ms J notified QIC that shed had a fire in her property that had caused damage to the 
building and her contents.
QIC considered the claim and ultimately cash settled for £14,542.41. Ms J raised a 
complaint as she was unhappy with the settlement amount. In particular - that the amount 
offered didnt include a contribution towards kitchen units. QIC said their surveyor had 
determined that the kitchen units didnt require replacing and Ms J had prejudiced their 
position by having the units removed.  
As she remained unhappy, Ms J referred her complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it be partially 
upheld. They said that QIC should contribute 50% of the cost of the kitchen units and pay  
Ms J £100 to recognise that they couldve handled the claim better. 
QIC didnt accept the Investigators recommendations, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
My decision will consider whether QIC have fairly settled this claim. Ill also be considering 
how QIC have treated Ms J overall. Our investigator has already explained that any issue 
with the bath/decorating works doesnt form part of this specific complaint. 
The main remaining area of contention in this complaint is the kitchen units. QIC say that  
Ms J has unfairly prejudiced their position and breached the policy terms (unauthorised 
works) by removing and disposing of the kitchen units shortly after they told her they 
wouldnt be covered under the claim settlement. Ms Js justification for removing the units 
was there remained a smell of soot after they were moved for cleaning.
Ive given careful consideration to the arguments put forward by both sides here. But my 
finding, based on the available evidence, is that QIC need to reimburse Ms J 50% of the cost 
of the replacement kitchen units (subject to reasonable proof of her outlay). Ive reached this 
position for the following reasons:
QIC are correct that Ms J has technically breached the policy terms here. However, 
QIC will also be aware that our Services remit extends to considering what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint (DISP 3.6.1). 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/3/6.html 
Its reasonable to assume that Ms J wouldnt have taken drastic action (being without 
kitchen units) unless a genuine issue remained with the units after the relevant 
cleaning works had previously been completed.
Where the units were located was close to the epi-centre of the fire that caused the 
damage being claimed for here. Therefore, its reasonable to assume (given their 
makeup/materials etc) that theyd have been affected by the impact of the smoke and 
soot. 
Im not at all persuaded by QICs arguments that but for the cabinets being moved 
there wouldnt have been any impact of the smoke/soot. Its apparent that the 
cabinets were impacted and Ms J told QIC through their portal that the smell had 
been making her cough. Ive also noted that a number of cleaning attempts had been 
made prior to their removal and Ms J let QIC know on 10 November that a smell 
remained.
QIC are correct that Ms J not retaining the units and instead disposing of them meant 
they couldnt inspect them. But Ive balanced this against QIC having had ample 
opportunity to inspect the units (through their appointed agents) on a number of 
occasions prior. For example, the initial survey was caried out on 17 October and five 
subsequent visits had taken place before Ms J removed the units. Another 
opportunity to document the condition of the units was available to QIC after the most 
recent clean on 8 November. This is important as the initial report stated that as a 
clean had not yet been completed there may be additional building items to add to 
the schedule. 
Although Im not making a finding on the actions of Ms J, I find that a 50% 
contribution reflects that she couldve communicated much more clearly what her 
intentions and next steps were before removing the units - and potentially avoided 
the situation she then found herself in afterwards. This also reflects that as the units 
were disposed of, an inspection cant take place to ascertain their condition and I 
cant fairly conclude if the suggested fog or odour eliminators wouldve resolved the 
issue here.
When considering how QIC have treated Ms J overall, our Investigator recommended that 
QIC compensate her £100 for how theyd handled this claim. I find this to be fair, reasonable 
and proportionate.Putting things right
Given the specific circumstances of this complaint, QIC Europe Ltd need to:
Make a contribution of 50% towards the kitchen units that Ms J has replaced. This is 
subject to reasonable proof of her having made payment. Interest at a rate of 8% 
simple per annum should be added from the date Ms J made payment until the date 
QIC settle this part of claim (not any other outstanding issues); and
Pay Ms J £100 compensation in recognition of how this claim was handled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to follow my 
direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman