DRN-3174111
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he received from Berkeley Financial Partners Ltd 
(Berkeley) to invest in the FACET Fund no.3 within his Self-invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He believes that this might have presented more risk that was suitable for his 
Cautious/Balanced risk profile. He also believes that the fund should have been managed 
more closely and action taken earlier. At the time Berkeley was an appointed representative 
of Facet Investment Management Ltd (Facet). As such, Facet is responsible for the actions 
of Berkeley and has addressed Mr Fs complaint.
What happened
Berkeley gave the advice to Mr F but as Facet takes responsibility for that advice I will refer 
to Facet throughout. 
In 2016 Facet provided advice and recommendations to Mr F about his pension provision. At 
this time Mr F had an existing paid-up pension associated with his employment. Facet 
recommended that he switch his pension to a Standard Life platform facility and invest his 
pension fund in a Discretionary Fund Management arrangement (DFM)  the FACET DFM. 
Because of an identified need to reduce investment risk, Mr F was recommended to invest in 
the FACET Fund No. 3. 
The FACET Fund no 3 is made up of holdings in the FACET Cautious and FACET Balanced 
funds. 
Mr F accepted the advice and his pension fund was switched to the FACET No.3 fund. 
The Facet Cautious Fund and Facet Balanced Fund were suspended in 2019. Then in 2020 
it was confirmed that the funds would be wound-up and the money returned to the investors 
in the fund. It was confirmed at the time that some of the fund holdings were illiquid and 
could not currently be sold. 
Facet did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said that the FACET Cautious and Balanced funds 
had appropriate risk profiles for Mr F. It said that funds had performed well up to the default 
of the Cape Valorem (Cape) holding. It said that the Cape holding was a secured bond that 
had a history of paying its coupon on time. After a default by Cape the funds were  
suspended and no further action could be taken. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. He 
thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary the investigator said:
The advice to switch to the DFM caused Mr F to incur significantly higher costs as 
compared to his existing pension. 
There were insufficient benefits to Mr F switching to a new pension arrangement 
bearing in mind the increase in costs. If he wished to reduce risk then he could have 
done that within his existing pension. 
Mr F had no previous experience of a DFM and he didnt require a DFM to achieve 
his goals. He was not an experienced investor nor an active investor. 
The DFM could invest in a very wide range of assets and Facet would have been 
aware of the risks of that. This led to the liquidity problems that Mr F subsequently 
faced. 
Facet did not accept the investigators assessment. In brief, it made the following comments:
As of 1 February 2017, the top five holdings in the Cautious fund were:
 
Lyxor UCITS ETF Smart Cash C GBP  8.59% 
Kames Investment Grade Bond  B  7.17% 
iShares Barclays Index-linked Gilts  7.12% 
DB X-Trackers SONIA  7.07% 
iShares Markit iBoxx Corporate Bond  6.98% 
As of 1 February 2017 the top five holdings in the Balanced Fund were: 
Lyxor UCITS ETF Smart Cash C GBP  7.78% 
Kames Investment Grade Bond  B  6.82% 
iShares MSCI World Minimum Volatility  5.50% 
DB X-Trackers SONIA  4.97% 
iShares Barclays Index-linked Gilts  4.95%
The relatively high level of illiquid and less-liquid assets was due to large 
redemptions, which skewed the ratio of these investments to higher than usual 
percentages.
The Cautious and Balanced funds were suspended on 10 October 2019. 
All less-liquid assets had been sold (by 26 January 2021) and the money returned to 
holders. So at this point it was only the illiquid investments that remained. 
Mr F was not advised to switch into high risk investments. Mr F was advised to move 
to an active management DFM who chose to invest into daily traded, risk-rated 
OEICs. The OEICs were liquid, tradeable, suitable and relevant to his risk profile.
Mr Fs portfolio only invested in retail suitable, daily traded OEICS. These were 
consistent with his ATR.
If Mr F had transferred to the Standard Life Platform without the DFM element so as 
to have flexibility and reduce volatility, and received ongoing advice, he would have 
incurred higher costs than the DFM route. 
The increase in cost brought about by the advice was 0.25% and there were benefits, 
such as platform services and constant monitoring with the DFM service.
The factsheets for the funds were clearly laid out showing the risk ratings of both the 
balanced and cautious funds.
The investments made by Facet were into Non-UCITS Retail Scheme (NURS) 
OEICS. They were suitable for Mr F.
The DFM did not purchase the high-risk investments for Mr F. They purchased 
NURS OEICs which were appropriately risk rated for Mr F.
Mr Fs Facet portfolio does not still exist. Mr F transferred his portfolio away from 
Facet in January 2020 and therefore Facet has had no involvement since then.
The investigator then reviewed the complaint and issued a further assessment. In summary 
he said that he remained of the view that the investments he had been recommended were 
higher risk than was suitable for him. Some of the underlying investments brought liquidity 
risks which were not appropriate for Mr F. Facet then asked for some information about Mr Fs current pension portfolio and for further 
time to review and consider the issue. 
As a result it made an offer to Mr F in settlement of his complaint. Mr F and Facet then 
entered into some exchanges about the nature of any redress calculation. However that has 
not led to any agreement between Facet and Mr F and therefore it is now appropriate for an 
ombudsman to consider the complaint and issue a Final Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A Confidential Financial Review Form or fact find was completed at the time the advice was 
given. This recorded Mr Fs circumstances. His Standard Life SIPP was noted. 
It was also recorded that:
Agreed with ATR profile. Looking to take a more cautious approach with SL Pension and liked the idea of 
FACET DFM.
When Mr F met with Facet in 2016, the money within his existing Standard Life SIPP was 
invested in the following funds:
SL Managed  about 40%
SL Multi Asset Managed (20-60%)  about 28%
SL UK Equity Select  about 9%
SL Invesco Perpetual High Income  about 24% 
The charges for these funds were:
SL Managed  1.02%
SL Multi Asset Managed (20-60% Shares)  1.01%
SL Equity Select  1.41%
SL Invesco Perpetual High Income  1.89%
At the time the weighted average of the charges was calculated as 1.25%.
It was set out on Facets recommendation or suitability letter dated 10 November 2016 that 
these funds had achieved positive growth of between 50% to 70% over five years. All but 
one had outperformed their benchmarks. 
The recommendation letter recorded:
Although the performance of all 4 of your funds has been reasonably solid in general terms,
the performance of 1 of the funds has been especially disappointing when measured against
its respective sector. We should also consider that the overall asset makeup of your portfolio
is susceptible to a higher degree of market volatility than you would prefer, especially when
you bear in mind around 71% of the portfolio consists of equities and therefore offers a 
certain amount of restriction in the way of flexibility and diversification should market 
conditions change to the detriment of the assets in the said funds.
We would equate the degree in which your current portfolio invests in equities to that of
someone who has a High Medium Risk which is 1 place higher than your preferred level. 
You appreciate that over the last 5 years your overall portfolio has performed well, but 
because you are mindful of volatility, you would like to consolidate those gains. On a cautionary note we should also bear in mind that it is the opinion of FACETS discretionary 
fund managers that in the current economic climate equities appear to be overpriced.
I am therefore of the opinion that you would benefit from an investment strategy that reduces
the volatility of a standard retail investment fund without overly inhibiting the upside potential.
A discretionary managed fund can fulfil that objective owing to the fact that the terms of
 reference of the fund are risk-grade related rather than asset related and in most cases asset restricted.  
This provides the fund manager with a free hand as to where to invest and when, and also in respect of the    
quantum of purchases and sales.
It was also set out:
investment  performance  of the FACET  No. 3 Model  compared  with its benchmark  fund 
and this will enable  a comparison  with your existing  Standard  Life funds:
Fund/Benchmark/Inde
x%
Growth 
1 year%
Growt
h 3 
years%
Growth 
5 
years
FACET  Fund  no. 3 8.42 26.58 52.04
ARC  Sterling  
Balanced9.90 16.61 37.89
7IM Balanced 9.65 17.93 44.80
(Information  provided  by FE Analytics  26th October  2016)
The performance  differential  between  the discretionary  managed  fund and your existing  
Standard  Life Portfolio  is quite  varied  with a slight  improvement  of your current  plan over 
the 1 and 5 year periods,  but with a slight  improvement  of the discretionary  managed  fund 
over your current  portfolio  over the 3 year period,  however  as your retirement  age is 
getting  ever so nearer  you would  like to consolidate  what  growth  you've  achieved  and 
adopt  a less volatile  strategy  going  forward,  where  not so much  emphasis  is placed  on 
equity  growth,  and although  investment  unit prices  can go down  as well as up, the 
comparison  is indicative  of the investment  performance  potential  of the FACET  funds  
given  their risk profile.
Additionally,  I would  refer  you to the enclosed  graphical  representations  of the 
performance  against  its benchmarks,  and these  I think  illustrate  the reduced  volatility  
that discretionary  management  can offer.
You will see that the total annual management charge is estimated to be 2.06% and this
compares favourably with usual annual management charges under normal retail SIPPs
particularly when taking into account the benefits of discretionary fund management as
described earlier. The graphical representations of the past performance of the FACET No. 3
fund over the last five years compared with its benchmark fund emphasizes the reduced
volatility under the discretionary managed fund, and I am of the opinion that any additional
costs for the discretionary managed portfolio should be more than offset by both better
performance and lower volatility coupled with the positive impact that the latter is likely to 
have on future regular income withdrawals. That said, there is no commitment long-term to retaining the FACET fund and if future performance should disappoint for any reason, then a 
switch back to retail funds generally is a simple matter.
Upon analysis, therefore, the annual ongoing charge under the proposed new platform SIPP
is only marginally higher than under the present arrangements, even allowing for the
discretionary fund management approach. Charges, of course, are not necessarily the be 
all and end all of the matter. The greatest impact upon the eventual value of your pension 
fund will be the net investment growth rate experienced (i.e. after charges) and my 
considered opinion, as stated previously, is that your growth prospects will be significantly 
enhanced by the utilization of the FACET discretionary management service.
I do not believe it is disputed that the new arrangement had higher overall charges than 
applied previously to Mr Fs existing scheme. I recognise that Facet believed there were 
advantages to the new approach which justified that. However I do not believe that there 
were persuasive reasons to justify the switch. 
Mr F was an ordinary retail customer and was not a sophisticated or knowledgeable investor. 
I have not seen evidence that he required a DFM to achieve his aims  which were, 
principally, lower volatility whilst obtaining a good level of returns. He could have achieved 
his aims by switching funds within his existing pension where there was sufficient flexibility 
and choice in terms of investment funds. He did not require the DFM where the manager 
could select from a very wide range of assets. As the documentation for the DFM sets out, 
this could include derivatives, unregulated schemes and hedging strategies - and that 
brought with it further risks. There was also no guarantee of performance exceeding that of 
his existing scheme or particular reason why that was likely. I am also not persuaded that Mr 
F required the continuing oversight of a financial adviser to achieve his aims. 
Mr F could have also diversified his investments with his existing pension  and he was 
already doing so to a certain extent. The recommendation to invest with one investment 
manager, taking one approach, essentially placed all his eggs in one basket. If the choices 
or decisions of the manager were wrong in the sense that the fund performed poorly then 
the majority of Mr Fs investment was subject to that. This did transpire when the DFM 
invested in some assets which became illiquid and/or failed and the DFM subsequently itself 
failed.  
I appreciate that the evidence suggests the DFM changed some of the Balanced and 
Cautious funds assets after the advice was given and Mr Fs money was invested. But the 
very wide investment mandate and discretion the DFM had was known at outset  it was 
always possible that the DFM could invest in the assets it chose. That was reasonably 
foreseeable. 
Furthermore if Mr F had not been given this advice then he would not have invested in the 
DFM  and not been exposed to the risks and assets in question. So he would not have 
been invested in some seemingly illiquid assets that have caused him financial loss. It is 
worthy of note that I have not seen evidence that Facet suggested a switch away from the 
DFM when the assets changed  and it was taking a fee for keeping the situation under 
review.
So I do not believe Mr F was given suitable advice to switch his pension funds to the DFM 
and I therefore uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr F would have remained with his previous provider. However, given his objectives 
at the time of taking a more cautious approach, it wouldnt be appropriate to obtain a notional value from that provider based on the original investments. Bearing in mind that a 
more cautious approach was intended Im satisfied that what Ive set out below as an 
alternative is fair and reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested. I have noted Mr Fs suggestions as to how the redress calculation should be 
carried out, but I believe that what I have suggested is a fair approach.
What must Facet do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Facet must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Facet should add interest as set out below:
Facet should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Facet is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr F £350 for the upset and inconvenience this matter will have caused. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Facet deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Facet should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Facet Fund 
no.3Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Facet should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Facet pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Facet is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Facet may require that Mr F provides an 
undertaking to pay Facet any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Facet will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal from the Facet Fund no.3 should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Facet totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Facet Investment Management Ltd should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Facet Investment Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a 
clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman