DRN-3972699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that the two-year fixed mortgage interest rate product they 
took out in May 2020 with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bank of Ireland (UK) ended 
after 17 months rather than two years. They would like BOI to compensate them for the 
additional interest they say they have had to pay.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 7 October 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with BOI. In June 2020 Mr and Mrs C applied for a product 
switch, choosing a two-year interest rate of 2.12%, fixed until 31 May 2022. For legal 
reasons the transaction didnt complete until 23 December 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that the fixed rate doesnt run for two years from the date of 
completion. They complained to BOI, which didnt uphold the complaint. BOI explained that 
the documentation showed that the end date for the fixed rate was 31 May 2022 and that the 
bank wasnt able to change this. 
Dissatisfied with BOIs response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked at what happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, asked for an ombudsman to review the 
investigators findings. He has highlighted that the mortgage illustration he received says, in 
relation to the two-year fixed rate: assuming the new deal starts on the 1st of July 2020 and 
interest rates do not change you will pay 23 payments of £759.97.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin with a few general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, 
and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and 
their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and 
we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. 
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should get it 
from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion. 
Mr C has said that hed like a discussion with me about his complaint before I determine it. 
That wouldnt be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr C a one-sided personal hearing 
to press his case directly without the business being involved and being able to contribute. 
On the rare occasions we conduct a direct hearing, it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present. Anything else would be procedurally unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
I also note that Mr and Mrs C complained about other matters relating to their application in 
2020. On 27 January 2023 an ombudsman issued a decision explaining that the complaint 
about those other issues was out of time. For the sake of completeness, I confirm that Ive 
read the ombudsmans decision and agree with it.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr C believed his two-year fixed rate mortgage product 
would run for two years from the date of completion of the new interest rate product. 
Because the product came to an end sooner than he thought it would, Mr C is unhappy that 
he and Mrs C have paid more interest than they expected.
When BOI offers a fixed rate mortgage product, this is because the bank has itself borrowed 
funds in the wider money markets, with a set repayment date. That is why its fixed rate 
mortgage products also have a set end date, in order to tie in with the banks own borrowing 
obligations. 
A fixed-rate product will be offered for a certain period of time, until all the funds borrowed for 
that specific product have been used. In order to have the fixed rate they want, when an 
application is made, the bank will reserve a portion of the funds that are available at that 
rate. When all the funds have been reserved, the interest rate product is withdrawn.
Borrowers dont all apply for the product on the same date, and it would be too complicated 
for the banks own internal systems for there to be separate end dates on a single product. 
So the product will always have a fixed end date which would not necessarily correlate with 
the anniversary of the date the mortgage itself is taken out.
This is borne out by the example Mr C has highlighted in the offer, which states that if the 
mortgage was to complete on 1 July 2020, there would be 23 payments to make. This, in 
fact, supports the banks position that the fixed rate ran from 1 June 2020 for two years (until 
31 May 2022), and that the clock had already started to run on the fixed rate. Otherwise, if it 
had been two years from a supposed completion date of 1 July 2020, it would have said 
there were 24 payments to be made at the fixed rate. 
Therefore each month after 1 June 2020 that the mortgage didnt complete, the number of 
repayments at the fixed rate reduced. By the time the mortgage completed in December 
2020, there were only 17 months payments left, which is in line with the terms of the offer.
Im satisfied the documentation is clear in explaining the end date of the fixed rate product. 
Im also satisfied that BOI at no time said that the fixed rate ran for two years from the date 
of completion.
In all the circumstances, Im able to find BOI has done anything wrong.Because the fixed rate came to an end on 31 May 2022, it is always open to Mr and Mrs C to 
take out a new fixed rate with BOI, or to remortgage to a new lender altogether if they want 
to. If Mr and Mrs C want advice about their options, they can find details of financial advisers 
on the Financial Conduct Authority website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman