DRN-3179682
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly 
declined a claim under his home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr M contacted Lloyds to say he had tripped and fallen into his patio door causing it to come 
off its runners. He had been able to lift the door back into place. Lloyds sent a surveyor to 
inspect the door. Mr M then didnt hear anything further from Lloyds. So, Mr M complained.
When Lloyds replied, it said the claim had been declined because the door had come off the 
track due to the wheels being worn due to age. It said there wasnt evidence consistent with 
an insured event and that the wheels had failed in the normal course of operation due to age 
and deterioration over time. Lloyds said the policy didnt cover this type of issue. Lloyds said 
it hadnt contacted Mr M with the outcome until he followed this up. It apologised for this and 
offered £75 compensation for its poor service.
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr Ms 
explanation of what happened was plausible and Lloyds surveyor provided no evidence to 
support their view that the door had come off the track because the wheels had worn out. He 
said the claim met the definition of accidental damage and Lloyds should settle the claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
As Lloyds didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
Throughout the time Mr Ms complaint has been with this service, he has consistently said 
that the surveyor didnt properly assess the patio door. When Lloyds told Mr M the outcome 
of his complaint it said:
A surveyor  inspected the external sliding patio door which has come off the track due to 
the patio wheels being worn due to age.
The surveyor took some photos of the patio door. None of these showed the patio door 
wheels or their condition. Lloyds has since provided further comments from the company 
that did the survey that said:
After reviewing this case, [we] stand by our original inspection that the patio wheels are 
damaged a result of general wear and tear.
There is no impact damage to the patio door and if someone was to fall into the patio door 
with such force, they would break the wheels and the patio door would have fallen out 
causing major damage, including breakage of glass. The area where the patio is installed is 
in [Mr Ms postcode area] which is near to the sea  this will cause rusting issues with 
mechanical parts on the patio door, which can be seen on the hook lock as it has completely 
rusted.
If required, [we] can re-attend with a fitting team to expose the wheels and take photos, as 
we are confident that wheels will be rusted as a result of wear and tear not impact damage.
Given the company now says it would need to send a fitting team to expose the wheels and 
show whether they are rusted or have impact damage, I dont think a thorough enough 
assessment was carried out previously for Lloyds to reasonably conclude that the damage 
was the result of wear and tear. Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds inspected the wheels in 
order to conclude they were damaged and that this was due to wear and tear.
So, I also dont think there is enough information to say one way or the other whether the 
damage was more likely wear and tear or accidental damage. This is because, in my view, 
Lloyds hasnt properly investigated the claim or provided evidence to support its current 
findings. So, I currently intend to say that Lloyds should continue to consider Mr Ms claim 
and any settlement for it.
Ive also thought about compensation. Lloyds accepts that it provided poor service by not 
giving Mr M the outcome of his claim until he chased for this. I also think Lloyds didnt 
properly investigate the claim itself, which is, again, poor service. I think this has caused Mr 
M frustration and inconvenience. So, I currently intend to say that Lloyds should pay a total 
of £150 compensation, which includes the £75 already offered.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 17 December 2021. 
Mr M said that the reference to the damage being caused by him being over 10 miles from 
the sea, however absurd, suggested he wasnt aware of the claims made by Lloyds, which 
he wanted to see. He also queried whether Lloyds might decide the work required might cost 
little more than the £300 excess. He also asked whether I could ask Lloyds to delegate the 
work as per his recent quotation or, if I couldnt do that, ask them to carry out the works as 
described in that quotation.
Lloyds disagreed with my decision. It said it wasnt for the insurer to investigate the cause of 
damage, that was for the policyholder to do. When an insurer appointed a contractor, this 
was to validate what the customer had alleged. Lloyds said I hadnt addressed whether the 
incident was in line with the policy definition of accidental damage. It said it could be argued 
that what happened was unexpected and unintentional, but it questioned whether there was 
actual damage. The contractor had confirmed there was no actual damage to the door. If the 
door fell to the ground, there would be evidence of this. Mr M was also asked to get the door 
inspected and to provide a quote for a new door, but there was no mention in the quote as to 
whether they had inspected the door, what the cause of damage was and if it was 
irreparable. It said it was for the customer to demonstrate an insured event had taken place, 
which it didnt believe had been proven.
It also provided comments from an in-house surveyor that said:
Examination of the runners would show the exact cause of the metal fatigue or failure and 
would enable replacement runners to be sourced, but beyond those reasons, it wouldnt 
advance a claim for accidental damage and thats because the runners could not or would 
not fail from an impact without damaging elsewhere
first  most notably the aluminium frame or the glass. Seeing the underside of the door 
would not change that interpretation. It would move the judgement from the balance of 
probabilities to a higher threshold.Lloyds said a further inspection would be a fruitless exercise and not necessary on this 
occasion. The proximate cause was general wear and tear and the door and its structure 
had reached the end of its life. It said there was no damage that could be considered as a 
one-off incident of accidental damage under the policy terms and therefore no evidence of 
an insured event. Even if there was, the general exclusion of wear and tear applied and 
Lloyds had done enough to support this.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. 
As part of this, I have taken into account the comments from Lloyds.
I agree with Lloyds that it is for a policyholder to show there has been an insured event. But 
an insurer will often investigate this on a policyholders behalf. In this instance, Lloyds sent a 
contractor to inspect the damage. A contractor needs to carry out an appropriate 
assessment to show that a proper investigation has been carried out. However, in this 
instance, the contractor has said that the damage to the wheels was the result of wear and 
tear but that it reached this conclusion without actually assessing the wheels themselves. I 
also note the contractor has more recently said the distance from the sea was likely to be a 
factor, but Mr M says he lives 10 miles from the sea. Lloyds has also said the contractor 
didnt find any damage to the door, but the contractor said there was damage to the wheels. 
I remain of the view that I dont think it is fair to rely on the contractors findings about the 
cause of damage when the contractor accepts it didnt carry out an assessment of the 
wheels.
Lloyds has also said if the door had fallen to the ground there would be evidence of this. Ive 
looked again at the evidence previously provided by Lloyds, this explained that Mr M had 
said he fell into the patio door and the bottom runner came off the track and that Mr M had 
lifted the door back into place and that the whole unit broke away, but I havent seen details 
of the door falling to the ground. Lloyds has also said that Mr Ms quotes didnt include a 
cause of damage. Again, looking at the records Lloyds provided, these said that Mr M 
provided quotes, two of which were verbal. I havent seen anything to show that Mr M was 
told that the quotes needed to provide a cause of damage or that when he provided the third 
quote he was then told it needed to show this. However, following this, Lloyds appointed the 
contractor to assess the door.
Lloyds has also disputed that it was accidental damage. To be clear, I havent said it was 
accidental damage or that the claim should be accepted under that peril. Ive said that Lloyds 
needs to investigate the claim further. Lloyds has also provided comments from an in-house 
surveyor which said it wouldnt be possible to identify that it was accidental damage. The 
contractor previously said:
 we are confident that wheels will be rusted as a result of wear and tear not impact 
damage.
This therefore seems to suggest that the contractor thought it would be able to identify what 
was impact damage and what was wear and tear. I remain of the view that Lloyds needs to 
continue to assess the claim.
Mr M has asked about what Lloyds might now do in order to settle the claim. As Ive 
explained above, Im not requiring Lloyds to settle the claim. Im requiring it to continue to investigate it. If, following further investigation, Lloyds settles the claim it should do this in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. However, Im not in a position to say what an 
appropriate cost or scope of works would be to settle the claim. If Lloyds settles the claim 
and Mr M isnt happy with how it does this, he would need to raise this with Lloyds in the first 
instance.
  
Putting things right
Lloyds must continue to consider the claim and any settlement for it and pay Mr M £150 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Continue to consider the claim and any settlement for it.
Pay Mr M £150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman