DRN-4421297
The complaint
Mr M1 complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and their 
decision to decline claims made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M1 held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by LV. Mr M2, the son of Mr M1, was 
listed as a named driver on the same.
The car insured on the policy was collected by Mr M2 on 16 July 2022. And Mr M2 explained 
to take the car away on that day, he needed to agree for the V5 documentation to be placed 
in his name. Its important to note Mr M2 took the finance out for the car, on behalf of Mr M1, 
due to Mr M1s poor credit rating. Mr M2 has explained the car was a gift to Mr M1, with Mr 
M1 agreeing to cover the finance payments in a way agreeable to both. Shortly after this, Mr 
M1 contacted the DVLA to change the V5 documentation to list him as the registered 
keeper.
But before this was processed, Mr M2 was involved in a road traffic accident, which saw the 
car deemed beyond economical repair. So, Mr M1 made a claim on his policy. And, as Mr 
M1 was told he would need to replace the car on the policy to keep the policy live, this is 
what he did, with a second car being purchased.
Unfortunately, Mr M2 was involved in a second accident shortly after, while the first claim 
they made was ongoing. And on 24 August 2022, LV wrote to Mr M1 explaining their 
decision to decline the first claim, stating their belief that Mr M1 had deliberately mis-
represented at the policy inception. So, they explained they would be voiding the insurance 
policy and treating it as if it had never existed, and because of this wouldnt be dealing with 
either claim. They also explained they wouldnt be looking to return any premium paid by Mr 
M1. Mr M1 was unhappy about this and so, he raised a complaint. I note Mr M1 may have 
been represented by Mr M2 during this process.
Mr M1 didnt think LVs decision to void the policy and decline his claims was fair. He 
explained his ill health had resulted in him being unable to collect the car, and this is why the 
V5 documentation listed Mr M2 as the registered keeper. But he explained his intention to 
alter this, shown by his called the DVLA the day after collection. And, that the replacement 
car was in his name. So, Mr M1 wanted LV to overturn their original decision and process 
both claims against the policy he held.
LV responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They maintained their belief that Mr M1 had 
deliberately misrepresented the information he provided at the inception of the policy. So, 
they thought the actions theyd taken were fair, and didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr M1 remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our initial investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think Mr M1 had 
intentionally misrepresented the information provided at the inception of the policy. And they 
felt Mr M1s health, and a delay in receiving the logbook coinciding with the timing of the 
accident, resulted in the situation he found himself in through no fault of his own. They were 
satisfied Mr M1 was the intended owner, and registered keeper and so, they didnt agree 
that there had been a misrepresentation. Because of this, they thought LV should reinstate 
the policy, remove the record of voidance and reconsider both claims, while also 
recommending LV pay Mr M1 £250 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
LV didnt agree. And they maintained their belief they had acted fairly, in line with industry 
rules and guidelines based on the information available to them.
Mr M1s case was re-allocated to another investigator, who issued another outcome after 
considering further information supplied by LV. Their opinion remained the same as the 
previous investigator. But they thought LV should pay Mr M1 £500 to fairly recognise the 
distress hed been caused, considering his health at the time. They also explained that, 
should LV accept the claim after reassessment, they should cover any additional charges 
applied to the first finance agreement.
LV continued to disagree. They thought there were several factors that meant their decision 
to void the policy was a fair one, which included the finance being in Mr M2s name, Mr M2 
being the driver in both accidents, Mr M2 acting as point of contact through most of the 
process and their disagreement regarding who should be recorded as the legal owner. As 
LV didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note LV had deemed Mr M1 to have deliberately misrepresented the information he 
provided at the policy inception. So, to decide whether I think this determination and the 
actions LV took because of it were fair, Ive considered this against the rules set out in the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
In line with the rules, I first need to think about whether Mr M1 made a misrepresentation at 
policy inception. LV says Mr M1 did, as he listed himself as the owner, and registered 
keeper, of the car. But they dont think he was either of these.
Ive first thought about whether Mr M1 was the owner, as we was asked at inception who 
owns the car?. Its not in dispute that Mr M2 took out the finance for the car. So, I can 
understand why LV may question this. But I think Mr M1 has provided a reasonable 
rationale, explaining that Mr M2 did so as he had a poor credit rating, and the car was taken 
out on a credit basis. And, on top of this, Ive seen evidence that shows Mr M1 paid Mr M2 
the majority of the finance cost per month, with the remaining balance deducted from keep 
Mr M2 paid to Mr M1 as he was living in a home Mr M1 owned. I think this is a plausible 
explanation and I see no reason to dispute this. So, I do think Mr M1 had an insurable 
interest in the car. 
I also note Ive seen evidence that shows Mr M1 paid the insurance premium for the car, out 
of his own account. And I think this supports his statement that he was intended to be the 
owner of the car, as Id expect the owner for pay for the policy premium. And on top of this, I 
note Mr M2 says the car was purchased with the intention of it being gifted to Mr M1, and 
where a car is gifted, the recipient of the gift would usually be classed as the owner. So, I dont think I can say Mr M1 mis-represented his answer to this question.
Ive then thought about Mr M1s question to Whose name is on the registration document. 
Mr M1 answered this, stating he was on the registration document. But its not disputed that 
at the time of the first accident, this wasnt the case. So, I do think there was a 
misrepresentation here.
But crucially, for LV to be able to rely on CIDRA and the actions it allows them to take, the 
misrepresentation must be a qualifying misrepresentation. And to be qualifying, I would 
need to be satisfied that Mr M1 failed to take reasonable care when answering this question.
Mr M1 has explained that it was always his intention to register the car in his name. And so, 
this is why he answered the policy as such. But hes explained due to his ill health, which is 
significant, he was unable to travel to collect the car due to the distance and how long the 
commute would take. Its not in dispute Mr M1 has significant health conditions and Im 
satisfied the car being purchased was a distance away. So, I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
As Mr M2 was listed as a named driver, and also taking out the finance, it was agreed for Mr 
M1 to collect the car and drive it back on Mr M2s behalf. I think this was both fair and 
reasonable.
Mr M1 has explained that, when collecting the car, the retailer advised Mr M2 the V5 
documentation would need to go in his name, as he was present at the time of collection. 
While Ive no evidence to substantiate this claim, I dont think this explanation is implausible. 
And so, I dont think it would be fair for me to say this wasnt the case. So, I think this 
explains why the V5 stated the registered keeper as Mr M2, not Mr M1.
But what I do have evidence of is calls Mr M1 made to the DVLA the day after the car was 
collected. And he says these calls were made to try and update the V5 documentation to list 
him as the registered keeper. Again, I dont have evidence to say for certain this was what 
was discussed. But I think this makes sense, and it follows the events that happened since, 
as Ive seen evidence to show both cars did list Mr M1 as the registered keeper eventually.
I note that, at the time of the first accident, due to it being so close to the date the car was 
collected, Mr M1 hadnt received the V5 by post to update it and return it to the DVLA. So, 
when LV were processing the first claim, it listed Mr M2 as the registered keeper. But 
because of the above, Im satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that it was Mr M1s intention to 
list himself as the registered keeper. And I think the discrepancy with the V5 information LV 
received was down to a set of circumstances ultimately beyond Mr M1s control. So, I dont 
think I can say that the misrepresentation was caused by Mr M1s failure to take reasonable 
care when providing information at the inception of the policy.
Because of this, I dont think I can say the misrepresentation was a qualifying one on this 
occasion. And because of this, I dont think LV were fair when taking the action they did, 
under the rules set out by CIDRA. And I think this applies to both claims, as they were made 
under the same policy. 
I appreciate LV may disagree with this. And I recognise they feel there was several reasons 
that combined to lead them to reach the decision they did. But I dont think the fact Mr M2 
was driving on both occasions is evidence that Mr M1 wasnt intended to be the main driver. 
Mr M2 was a name driver and so, insured to drive the car under the policy. And him doing so 
doesnt mean Mr M1 misrepresented knowingly at the time the policy was taken out, 
especially considering his health and how this may have impacted his ability to travel overall.So, as I dont think LV have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think they should do 
to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr M1 back in the position he wouldve 
been, had LV acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had LV acted fairly, I think they wouldve continued to assess Mr M1s 
claims against the remains terms and conditions of the policy he held. So, this is what I think 
they should do.
And had LV acted fairly, I dont think they wouldve voided the policy. So, I think the policy 
should be reinstated and the voidance removed from anywhere that its been recorded.
Finally, had LV acted fairly, I dont think Mr M1 wouldve incurred the distress and 
inconvenience he no doubt wouldve felt when he was told his policy had been voided. And I 
can appreciate the upset this, and the stress of being responsible for the outstanding finance 
applicable to the first car, wouldve caused. Ive had to consider this impact against Mr M1s 
significant health conditions hes experienced during this time, and I think this has worsened 
the severity of the distress hes felt.
Our investigator took all this into account and recommended that LV pay Mr M1 £500 
compensation to fairly compensate Mr M1. And I think this offer falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward. So, this is what 
Im directing LV to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr M1 and Mr M2s complaint about Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Reinstate Mr M1s policy and remove any voidance/cancellation markers;
Reassess Mr M1s claims against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
taking into consideration any additional charges applied due to the delays in paying 
the claim if applicable; and
Pay Mr M1 £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman