DRN-4371293
The complaint
Ms W is complaining about Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). She says they shouldnt have 
lent to her as the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2019, Ms W took out a hire purchase agreement with BMF to finance the purchase of 
a car. She paid no deposit and borrowed £4,080, the cash price of the vehicle. The 
agreement required her to make 60 monthly repayments of £100.26, followed by a final 
payment of £250.26. She made all her payments on time until November 2020 when the 
next two direct debits bounced. After that she had small amounts of arrears until around 
October 2021 when she missed more payments and the arrears started to build up.
In October 2022, Ms W complained to BMF but when she didnt receive a formal response 
she brought her complaint to our service, saying BMF didnt do enough checks to make sure 
she could afford the finance. She said BMFs documents said she was a hairdresser at the 
time of the lending but shed never been a hairdresser. And she said the documents said 
she was co-habiting with no dependents whereas she was single with a dependent 
granddaughter. 
BMF replied to the complaint, saying that in the finance proposal Ms W had confirmed her 
income as a hairdresser was £16,800. They said the process included several warnings 
about the importance of any information provided being accurate. BMF said theyd used a 
credit reference agency to check Ms Ws credit history and they didnt note any indicators of 
over-indebtedness. So they accepted Ms Ws application in line with their policy. 
Ms W remained unhappy so one of our investigators looked into her complaint. Our 
investigators view was that BMF hadnt done proportionate checks. But if they had, she 
said, its likely theyd have still concluded the loan was affordable for Ms W. So our 
investigator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W disagreed with our investigator. She said the benefits our investigator had accounted 
for as Ms Ws income included amounts she received for looking after her granddaughter, 
and she had significant expenditure for doing so. She added that she hadnt been in the right 
frame of mind at the time of the agreement due to some family difficulties. Ms W asked for a 
decision  and the complaints come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Ms W, Im not upholding her 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did BMF carry out proportionate checks?
BMF said the only check they carried out was to look at Ms Ws credit file. They told us in 
later correspondence that this was enough in line with CONC 5.2A.15. 
CONC 5.2A.15R requires a firm to take reasonable steps to determine or make a reasonable 
estimate of the customers current income unless the firm is able to demonstrate that its 
obvious in the circumstances that the customer is able to make the repayments. It goes on 
to say that the firm must take account of that income when making an assessment of 
affordability. And CONC 5.2A.16G says its not generally sufficient to rely on a customers 
own statement of their income  checking independent evidence is advised.
BMF havent demonstrated that it was obvious in the circumstances that Ms W would be 
able to make the repayments. And I havent seen that they sought any independent 
verification of Ms Ws income. So it follows that Im not satisfied they did carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks.
In addition, Ms Ws credit file at the time showed a recent missed payment on her only active 
credit account  suggesting she may have been experiencing some financial difficulties. This 
also suggests more checks would have been proportionate  its an indicator that Ms Ws 
expenditure might already have been exceeding her income at times.
In summary Im satisfied BMF didnt carry out proportionate checks when deciding to lend to 
Ms W.
Im aware Ms Ws stated repeatedly that she wasnt a hairdresser and the income shown on 
her application was incorrect. Whilst I acknowledge what Ms Ws said, it hasnt formed part 
of my decision. As stated above, I think BMF should have checked Ms Ws income. If they 
had, theyd have found it wasnt as high as the application stated  as Ive explained below.
If BMF had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved BMF finding out more about Ms Ws income and 
expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a sustainable 
way. 
Ive looked at statements for Ms Ws main bank account for the three months leading up to 
her application to BMF. Im not saying BMF needed to obtain bank statements as part of 
their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a 
good indication of Ms Ws income and expenditure at the time the lending decision was 
made.
The bank statements show that Ms Ws income was regular and roughly the same amount 
each month. On average her net monthly income from various benefits across April to 
June 2019 was around £1,370. That includes the income she received for looking after her 
granddaughter instead of working. 
Looking at the monthly average of regular payments from Ms Ws bank statements, these 
were limited to car insurance and road tax (total £68), and phone, internet and TV services 
(total £125). Ms W paid her rent sporadically but her benefits statement showed she was 
supposed to be paying £370 per month and a statement from the council showed her council tax came to £16 per month. From the bank statements it seems Ms W spent an average of 
around £360 per month on groceries and other essentials. Ms W also withdrew significant 
amounts of cash. Shes told us around £100 each month was for gas and electricity and she 
also had to buy things her granddaughter needed, for which Ive allowed £100 per month.
In total then, Ms Ws income was around £1,370 per month and her non-discretionary 
expenditure was about £1,140 per month, leaving her with disposable income of around 
£231 from which shed be able to make the repayments on BMFs loan. The repayments 
were £100 per month, so this would have left £131 per month to cover discretionary 
spending and running costs of the car. In summary, if BMF had done proportionate checks, 
Im satisfied it would have been fair and reasonable for them to decide to lend to Ms W. So I 
cant uphold Ms Ws complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman