DRN-3251721
Complaint
Mr L and Mrs L has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
applied to their current accounts. Theyve said they dont understand why HSBC has 
charged them different amounts on each of their accounts.
Background
Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
HSBC had done anything wrong or treated Mr L and Mrs L unfairly. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr L and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr L and Mrs Ls
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision and this isnt something for me to get involved with.
Nonetheless Ive considered whether HSBC applied the charges fairly. Ive thought about 
what Mr L and Mrs L have said about the varying amounts they were charged across their 
accounts. As I understand it, the overdraft interest rate is the same on all of Mr L and Mrs Ls 
accounts. While there are some accounts such as the Premier account and Jade account 
which have different rates, they are subject to qualification criteria. And Mr L and Mrs L didnt 
have one of those accounts. 
The reason for the variation in the amounts Mr and Mrs L was charged is down to the way 
they used their overdrafts. In other words, the amount Mr L and Mrs L were charged 
depended on how much they were overdrawn, how long they were overdrawn for and most 
crucially whether or not they exceeded the respective overdraft limit. 
I appreciate that Mr L and Mrs L have said that it has been confusing and theyve been 
unsure how much money they needed to put in their accounts. But it was Mr L and Mrs Ls 
choice to have three accounts and to run their finances in this way. And, as the amount             
Mr L and Mrs L needed to credit each account with was dependent on how much they spent 
each month, I cant see how HSBC could have notified them of this in advance. In these 
circumstances, I cant reasonably say that HSBC did something wrong or failed to do 
something it was supposed to. So Im not upholding this part of Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint.
Ive also considered whether HSBC didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr L and Mrs L 
by adding interest, fees and charges to their account in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware they were experiencing financial 
difficulty. But having looked through Mr L and Mrs Ls statements throughout the period 
concerned, I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Mr L and Mrs L might have 
been struggling. 
Its fair to say that Mr L and Mrs L did use their overdrafts. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr L and Mrs Ls expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions and 
transfers account going from the accounts too. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr L and Mrs L, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it 
did. And I dont think that HSBC charged Mr L and Mrs L unfairly. As this is the case and 
given what Ive already said about the varying amounts charged, I dont think that HSBC 
needs to refund any interest, fees and charges. And Im not upholding Mr L and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr L and Mrs L. But I hope theyll 
understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman