DRN-3732909
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have 
handled a claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well know to both parties and largely not in dispute, 
so Ill only summarise them here.
Mr W made a claim in February 2021 following water damage to his kitchen.
Mr W was unhappy with the time taken to complete the repairs, issues with a worktop 
and an internal wall.
Admiral say the delays were caused by issues with a gas pipe that were not a result 
of the claim cause, and the contractors stopping work because they couldnt 
guarantee the works if an underlying issue with the wall wasnt resolved first.
Admiral add the internal wall was out of scope of the schedule of works and that the 
underlying issues were not covered by the policy.
Mr W was unhappy with Admirals response and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Admiral should repair the cracks in 
the wall, or add this cost to the cash settlement. And he said Admiral should increase 
the compensations to £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays, the 
handling of the issues with the wall and the need for rectification by another 
contractors.
Our investigator acknowledged some delays were not as a result of issues caused by 
its contractors.
Admiral didnt respond to our investigators view so the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigators and for the same 
reasons.
In response to the investigators view Mr W has asked that an ombudsman review the entire 
claim. Our investigator explained that hes only looked at issues raised until the complaint 
was brought to this service in January 2022. He added that any new issues, or issues raised 
since that date could be raised to Admiral and brought to us if he was dissatisfied with 
Admirals response. And in this decision Im only considering the issues brought to this 
service in January 2022.
Mr W also raised a number of questions in response to the view and our investigator 
explained that he was focusing on the crux of the complaint. He acknowledged the claim 
wasnt straightforward, and issues not related to the initial escape of water have impacted 
repairs and made things more difficult. And said hed been somewhat persuaded by the 
opinions of contractors and agents acting for Admiral that unrelated things have made things 
more difficult and bore this in mind when recommending a remedy. 
I appreciate Mr W has strong feelings on his case. However, I dont feel it necessary to 
mention all the points made and reference every piece of evidence comment or testimony. 
This isnt because I havent considered everything, its just a reflection of the informal nature 
of our service.
Ive considered the reports, photographs and comments about the issues with the wall and 
the joist supporting it. Whilst there may have been some pre-existing issues, and its a finely 
balanced decision, Im more persuaded that the work to reinforce the joist had an impact. 
And ultimately the wall cracked after Admirals remedial work and there was no evidence of 
a crack prior to this. So I find it fair that Admiral include this in the repairs.
Its not in dispute that there were some issues with the workmanship, and Admiral has 
agreed to include an amount in its cash settlement to replace the joists. Settling claims of 
this nature inevitably involve a degree of inconvenience but Im satisfied Mr W was 
inconvenienced more than he ought to have been. Ive considered the impact of the 
additional delays, unnecessary chasing by Mr W and the distress and inconvenience caused 
by not addressing this earlier in the process. Having done so I find that an award of £250 is 
appropriate to take account of the longer than necessary disruption and inconvenience 
caused to Mr W.
Putting things right
Admiral should add the cost of repairing the cracked wall to the cash settlement and pay 
£250 to Mr W if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr W £250 for the additional distress 
and inconvenience caused and include the cost of repairing the crack in the wall to the cash 
settlement if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman