DRN-3662000
The complaint
Miss N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt refunded 
transactions she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
Miss N says that her Halifax account has been hacked by fraudsters who have completed 
multiple transactions without her knowledge and have threatened her.
In April 2022 Miss N contacted Halifax about certain transactions on her account she says 
she didnt recognise or make. Halifax investigated and refunded these transactions. Shortly 
afterwards, Miss N reported many more disputed transactions to four different recipients.
Halifax hasnt agreed to refund the transactions Miss N disputes as it believes she made the 
payments or allowed someone else to make them. The disputed transactions involve card 
not present transactions using four debit card details. After reviewing IP address data Halifax 
noted that the same IP addresses were used before, during the period of and after the 
transactions Miss N disputes. Halifax also noted that a fraudster would have needed to 
access relevant card details multiple times.   
The investigator who considered Miss Ns complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
found it unusual that Miss N didnt report the transactions sooner than she did. The 
investigator also didnt think Miss Ns online banking had been hacked and her card details 
accessed as Miss N suggested. Miss N had also had four debit cards during the period the 
disputed transactions took place and the investigator thought it unlikely a fraudster had been 
able to access Miss Ns card details each time they changed whilst Miss N still had access to 
online banking. 
Miss N didnt agree with the investigators findings. She provided video evidence showing 
that its possible to view all the card information necessary to make card not present 
transactions in a Halifax mobile app. She also pointed to the fact that other accounts of hers 
were hacked and this still happened after changing her mobile phone and her number. Miss 
N provided further screenshots showing that she had been threatened and said ghost 
software has been used by a third party to make payments she was unaware of. Miss N also 
provided evidence of her communications with the police but confirmed that the police were 
no longer investigating.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint, I have carefully considered the submissions that have been made 
by Miss N and by Halifax. Where the evidence is unclear, I have made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and 
the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
When she submitted her complaint to this service Miss N provided evidence including 
messages sent and received via a messaging app. These indicate that Miss N received 
scam messages allegedly from the US Federal Bureau saying that money sent to her by 
someone Ill refer to as W had been intercepted and asking for a release fee. The story later 
changed, and Miss N was told that the sender was in prison and was controlling Ws 
account. Later messages suggest that Miss N sent money. But Miss N has told this service 
that she hasnt been the victim of a scam and doesnt know W. As Miss N says she is not the 
victim of a scam Ive considered whether I think she authorised the transactions she 
disputes. 
Broadly speaking, Ms N is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by 
making them herself or authorising someone else to), and she isnt responsible for 
unauthorised payments except in more limited circumstances. 
On balance, I consider it more likely than not that Miss N authorised the payments shes 
disputing. I say this because:
- I find it unusual that Miss N only reported the disputed transactions in April 2022. The 
transactions took place between November 2021 and April 2022 and its clear Miss N 
logged into her online banking many times over this period. She also told Halifax in a 
call that she noticed the transactions in November 2021. In the circumstances, I find 
it hard to understand why Miss N didnt notice the transactions and report them to 
Halifax straight away. 
- There is no plausible explanation for how a third party obtained the card details 
necessary to make the transactions. Whilst Miss N has shown its possible to see 
these details in the app, theres no explanation for how a fraudster was able to log 
into the app or online banking to obtain these details. Miss N changed her card four 
times in the period so a fraudster would need access to Ms Ns card details for each 
card. 
- Miss N believes that her mobile phone may have been hacked. Ive thought about 
this, but I dont think its very likely. I have seen evidence that shows the IP 
addresses used before, during the period of, and after the disputed transactions were 
made were consistent. Given this point, it seems unlikely Miss Ns phone was 
hacked. 
- The pattern of transactions isnt consistent with a fraudster gaining access to Miss 
Ns account. Fraudsters usually make larger transactions and clear the funds in an 
account quickly to maximise their gains before the account holder realises and 
notifies their bank. In this case, the disputed transactions took place over a period of 
around seven months and the amounts spent were modest. Also, if a fraudster has 
access to an account, they will usually make faster payments to themselves. 
- I can see that in between the transactions that Miss N is disputing, there are genuine 
transactions that she hasnt disputed to the same merchants, which seems odd. For 
example, Ms N has disputed two transactions to one individual through a particular 
merchant. But there are numerous transactions to the same individual and through 
the same merchant both before and after the two disputed transactions. I cant see 
why a fraudster would make payments to a genuine recipient as theyd be unable to 
access the funds. There are other similar examples to other merchants.  
- As Ive said above, I consider it likely that Miss N hasnt given Halifax or this service 
the full picture. Some messages she has sent lead me to believe that she made 
payments herself, possibly as part of a scam, but Miss N says this isnt the case. I 
cant consider a scam claim on the information Miss N has given though. 
- Miss N has explained the police are no longer investigating and have said she made 
the transactions herself. I dont have any evidence of this and havent relied on it, but the information ties in with my findings. 
In the circumstances I cant fairly conclude that a third party made the disputed payments 
without Miss Ns knowledge or consent and so I think Halifax acted reasonably in this case. I 
also dont think there were any other reasons why Halifax ought to have had any concerns 
about the payments as they werent so unusual or out of character that Halifax ought 
reasonably to have intervened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman