DRN-2022246
The complaint
Ms L complains that MoneyGram International Limited wont refund €1,000 that she 
ordered for collection which she says was fraudulently collected by someone else.
What happened
On 29 May 2019 Ms L sent €1,000 from the UK to be collected by herself in Paris. The 
money was for the rent and deposit on a flat. She arranged a flat viewing and travel to Paris 
for 22 June 2019. On 31 May 2019 the money was collected in Paris and Ms L got 
notification that her funds had been collected on 1 June 2019.
Ms L has said she made contact with the landlord for her prospective flat who advised she 
needed to show she could cover the rent and the deposit. Ms L created a MoneyGram 
account and transferred the money. Ms L said the landlord asked for her MoneyGram 
reference number so he could see proof of the funds, so Ms L gave him the reference 
number.
After she was told the money had been collected, she complained to MoneyGram.
MoneyGram said they had done nothing wrong and the person who collected the money had 
all the details they needed in order to do so.
Ms L complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought that someone had 
fraudulently collected Ms Ls money in France. She said she thought it likely that Ms L hadnt 
collected the money. She relied on the information on the MoneyGram receive form. She 
upheld the complaint and thought MoneyGram should refund Ms L her money. She also 
thought MoneyGram should compensate Ms L with £100 for the distress caused by the 
unhelpful customer service Ms L received from MoneyGram during this time. 
MoneyGram disagreed they said Ms L had ignored the fraud warnings and she had shared 
details of the transfer. The person who collected the money had all the information they 
needed to collect the money, so they had done the right thing in releasing the funds.
They should not be held liable for the acts of the receiver who defrauded Ms L.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out.
I accept first of all that Ms L has been the victim of a fraud. Im satisfied that the landlord 
persuaded her to provide sufficient information about the transfer to enable them to collect 
the money, pretending to be Ms L. Ms L hadnt used MoneyGram services before, and there 
seems to have been no reason for her to have done so, other than because shed been told 
to do so for this particular transaction. Whilst this is a well-known scam, Ive no reason to 
believe Ms L had heard about it before she used MoneyGram.
When she requested the transfer Ms L was provided with an 8-digit reference which she 
passed to the landlord. The transfer terms also said that reference shouldnt be passed to 
anyone else. It, along with identification and details of both the sender and recipient, would 
be needed to collect the money.
Ms L has told us that she did send the transfer reference number to the landlord. 
MoneyGrams records indicate that this information was provided by the person who 
collected the money. MoneyGram says, and I accept, that the reference number is used to 
access the payment.
MoneyGram have said that they should not be held liable because there are fraud notices on 
the online forms that Ms L would have filled in warning about scams. They say they are also 
clear that the transfer reference number shouldnt be shared with anyone other than the 
recipient of the funds.
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement between Ms L and MoneyGram 
and in particular 3.4 which says:
You must not give any of the collection details (whether or not redacted) to anyone other 
than your chosen recipient. You must also do all you reasonably can to ensure that no one, 
other than your chosen recipient, can obtain the collection details or any part of them. If you, 
directly or indirectly, disclose any collection details to anyone other than your chosen 
recipient then:
a) you can make it easier for someone to impersonate the recipient and collect the transfer 
in their place; and
b) we will not be liable if we pay the money to someone (other than the recipient) who gives 
the agent the collection details and what the agent reasonably believes to be valid evidence 
of identification.
MoneyGram has said they are obliged to pay the funds to the recipient who has the 
collection details and valid evidence of ID. MoneyGram has said that ID was shown but a 
copy of the receivers ID is not available. I have seen on the form that ID was shown in order 
to collect the transfer. Records show the ID was a driving licence.
Term 3.4 (b) says that the agent must reasonably believe the ID evidence to be valid. I have 
no way to establish the reasonableness of the belief by the receiving agent without being 
able to see the ID that was presented. Without it I cant make a finding on this point. 
The terms and conditions of MoneyGram seem to suggest that Ms L should be held liable for 
her loss. But I have to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
This is an unusual scenario in that the sender and receiver are the same person. Because 
the sender and the receiver were the same person Ms L had provided information relating to 
her address, her date of birth and her mobile phone number. This information was available 
to MoneyGram.I have to consider when making a decision in this case whether MoneyGram have acted 
fairly when they applied the terms and conditions. Having considered this I dont think that 
they have. I say this because MoneyGram had knowledge of the information that Ms L 
provided on her form which included the address and date of birth of the recipient. This 
information was provided to MoneyGram and could have been available to the agent. The ID 
presented didnt match the information that MoneyGram knew about the intended receiver. 
Had this information which was available to MoneyGram been checked, then it would have 
been obvious to MoneyGram that the information on the sender form and the recipient form 
as well as the ID presented didnt match. 
I have gone on to consider whether Ms L should bear some responsibility because of her 
actions in passing the information to a third party. 
In the circumstances I dont think she should because this was a sophisticated scam. It is in 
the nature of a scam that someone would be taken in by a story and do something which 
they are not supposed to do and even have been warned against doing. I have looked at the 
emails exchanged between Ms L and the scammer and he appears genuine, friendly and 
trying to help. The story he provided to Ms L is plausible. So, despite the warnings 
MoneyGram provide, I can see how someone inexperienced and in need of accommodation 
might fall into the trap of providing the details she did. 
My view is that although Ms L provided the details and she ought not to have done so, if 
MoneyGram had checked the information which was available to them against the 
information filled in on the receiver form then the fraud would have been prevented.
Ms L has said she wasnt given much help when she contacted MoneyGram to explain what 
had happened to the money. She was unhappy with the service she received from 
MoneyGram when pursuing her complaint. The investigator thought that Ms L should receive 
£100 in compensation for this and I agree that this amount is fair. 
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to uphold 
Ms Ls complaint and ask MoneyGram to refund the full £934.99 to her, along with 8% 
simple interest from the date of the payment to the date of settlement. In addition, pay her 
£100 for the material distress and inconvenience Ms L experienced when she contacted 
MoneyGram to complain. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above Im upholding this complaint. I direct MoneyGram International 
Limited to do the following:
refund the full £934.99 to Ms L, along with 8% simple interest from the date of the 
payment to the date of settlement.
pay Ms L £100 for the material distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman