DRN-3713303
The complaint
P, a limited company complains that Santander UK Plc caused P a loss when it made an 
error in the way it cancelled a cheque.
P is being represented by its directors, who Ill refer to as Mr and Mrs P. For ease, Ill only 
refer to Mr P in my decision.
What happened
In April, Mr P telephoned Santander and asked it to cancel a cheque he had issued. 
Santander explained there would be a £10 fee and proceeded to cancel the cheque. A few 
weeks later, Mr P contacted Santander again after he found that the value of the cancelled 
cheque had still debited his account. Santander told Mr P that hed need to raise his 
concerns with its complaints department.
After Mr P followed this advice, the bank informed him that he had provided the wrong 
cheque number over the phone. So Santander didnt agree it had done something wrong.  
Mr P referred his complaint to this service, requesting that Santander refund him the value of 
the cheque. One of our investigators concluded that the bank hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr P didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion that Santander has acted fairly  Ill 
explain why.
Santander says it cancelled the cheque in line with the information Mr P provided over the 
phone. Mr P wanted cheque number ****02 cancelled. But the bank says that the details 
Mr P provided were for cheque number ****03. Ive listened to the call and can see this was 
the case. The advisor Mr P spoke to repeated back the cheque number multiple times and 
Mr P confirmed it to be the one he wanted cancelled. Santander cancelled the cheque in line 
with Mr Ps instructions, so I cant agree that it did something wrong.
Mr P commented about the follow up call he had with customer services and is concerned 
that the bank couldnt explain what went wrong with the cancellation during this specific call. 
Mr P is unhappy that he had to contact the banks complaints department to find out. I cant 
say for certain why Santander couldnt give him an answer during this call. Im pleased that 
the banks complaints team was able to clarify what had gone wrong shortly after Mr P made 
contact. So I cant fairly conclude that Santander did something wrong.
To summarise, although I acknowledge Mr Ps frustrations here, it seems to me that 
Santander acted in line with Mr Ps specific instructions. Mr P provided a different cheque 
number over the phone and this is why the wrong cheque was cancelled.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman