DRN-3443217
The complaint
Mr Y complains about problems with the secured bridging loan he took out with Charter 
Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages. He asks that it accepts its 
processes need improvement and puts this in place, refunds excess charges and 
compensates him for his time and its poor service, bearing in mind the fees he paid. 
What happened
Mr Y took out a bridging loan with Precise in early March 2021. The security property was 
being marketed for sale and he received an offer on the same day the loan completed. 
When close to exchanging contracts he found out that Precises charge hadnt yet been 
registered at the land registry. Mr Y says this caused delays with his sale. He incurred 
additional interest and spent time sorting the matter out.
Precise said its solicitors applied to register the charge with the Land Registry in the usual 
way as Mr Y hadnt said he wanted the charge to be registered urgently. Once its solicitors 
were told the matter was urgent (in May 2021) they expedited the application. The solicitors 
told Mr Y completion of the sale could continue without the charge being registered and 
theyd cancel the application once the loan was redeemed. The charge was registered in 
early June 2021. Precise says it wasnt made aware of the issue with the charge until the 
end of June 2021 when Mr Y contacted it, and so didnt have a chance to put matters right.
Mr Y wasnt happy with Precises response. In summary, he says:
Precise charged high fees for setting up the loan. He says for this the service he 
received should have been exemplary. 
The security property was being marketed for sale when he took out the loan, so Precise 
was aware it could be sold at any time.
He didnt know there were different processes to register charges at the land registry. He 
says Precise didnt ask if he needed the charge to be registered urgently, even though it 
knew the property was being marketed for sale. It didnt update him about the process. 
The delay in the sale meant he paid interest on the loan for two to three weeks longer 
than necessary. 
Our investigator said Precise didnt have to offer information about the process to register 
the charge to Mr Y. He said Mr Y could have asked Precise or his solicitor if he did want to 
know about this. Our investigator said Precise had acted in a timely manner. It didnt know in 
March 2021 that Mr Y wanted the charge registered on an expedited basis, and acted 
appropriately when it was made aware of this. 
Mr Y explained why he didnt agree with the investigator. As well as points made previously, 
Mr Y said Precise would have known the Land Registry was busy at that time. And the 
investigator should have put more weight on what happened in March 2021 rather than after 
he raised his complaint. Mr Y said he was paying for dual representation (separate solicitors 
for him and Precise) and it was reasonable to expect a large organisation to anticipate and 
deal with problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Precise made an error here that would make it fair and reasonable to require it 
to pay compensation to Mr Y.
A broker applied for the bridging loan on behalf of Mr Y. The application said the funds would 
be used in the development of another property. The loan had a term of 18 months. The exit 
strategy was the sale of the property. 
The application says Mr Y chose separate representation and gave details of his solicitor. 
While this might have been more expensive than joint representation, I dont think Precise 
was responsible for Mr Y choosing separate representation. 
Precise offered a secured loan and, following completion, its solicitors made an application 
to register the charge at the Land Registry. While Mr Y says the application was put in the 
slow lane I dont think thats fair. Precises solicitors followed the usual process to register 
the charge so as to protect Precises security. I think that was reasonable. I dont think there 
was any requirement for Precise to update Mr Y about how the application to register the 
charge was progressing. 
Mr Y says Precise knew time was important and provided emails he said supported this. The 
first, dated 8 February 2021 from his broker to Precises solicitor, said he was keen to get a 
mortgage offer as he was looking to buy supplies. This evidences Mr Ys need for the loan 
funds, not that he told Precise he wanted to arrange matters so that he could sell the 
property soon after taking out the loan. The second is an email exchange between Mr Y and 
his broker on the day the loan completed about having received an offer for the property  
which Mr Y described as a staggering coincidence after six months on the market.
Precise was aware that the property was being marketed for sale, and it could be sold at any 
time. But Mr Y hasnt provided evidence that he told Precise in early March 2021 hed had 
an offer for the property, or that he expected to sell the property immediately after 
completion. Mr Y applied for a loan with a term of 18 months, which wouldnt have 
suggested to Precise that he expected an immediate sale. And the property had been on the 
market since October 2020, presumably without an appropriate offer being made. I dont 
think its reasonable to say that Precise should have asked its solicitors to expedite the 
registration of the charge or offer Mr Y a fast track process, just in case the property was 
sold soon after completion.
Mr Y says Precise should have anticipated and found solutions for potential problems (by 
which he presumably means organising the loan completion to facilitate a potential quick 
sale). I dont think thats reasonable. I must take into account here that this was a business 
loan. The loan funds were to be used for property development, and the available evidence 
suggests the security property itself had been bought for refurbishment and resale. I think it 
was reasonable for Precise to expect Mr Y to manage his business. I think it was reasonable 
for Precise to expect Mr Y to raise any concerns, for instance about any possible issues with 
selling the property shortly after the loan completed  especially after he received an offer for 
the property. 
Once Mr Y told Precises solicitors that registration of the charge was urgent they expedited the process. The charge was registered in early June 2021. Precise wasnt aware there was 
an urgent need to register the charge until the end of June 2021  after it had been 
registered. 
I dont think Precise made an error or treated Mr Y unfairly. In the circumstances, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to take any further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman