DRN-3939965
The complaint
Ms T complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined a claim she made for a leak at her 
home, under her home insurance policy. 
QIC are the underwriters of this policy and part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agents acting for it. As QIC have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent any 
reference to QIC includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms T had home insurance cover with QIC from 28 October 2021 to 27 October 2022.  
Ms T says she noticed she had lost water pressure on her taps but the boiler was still 
working. She also noticed the corner base unit in the kitchen was very hot and there was 
condensation inside the unit. 
Ms T called a plumber who was unable to source the leak and advised her to contact her 
insurer, which she did. Ms T says when she spoke to QIC on 28 October 2022 it told her to 
instruct a leak detection company to locate the source of the leak. 
When the company attended they identified an area of the kitchen where there was a leak, 
and they cut a hole in the laminate and floating floor to find a copper pipe which was capped 
off. This repaired the leak. 
Ms T made a claim on her policy for the cost to repair the hole in the floor. QIC declined the 
claim on the basis her policy didnt cover damage from tracing the cause of the leak. Ms T 
disagreed and complained. 
QIC said it considered the claim under the escape of water section of the policy. It said there 
was no damage caused by the leak and so there was no escape of water and as such the 
claim was declined. QIC explained trace and access cover on the policy is only relevant if 
there is an escape of water claim and this requires there to be water damage due to a leak. 
The leak itself isnt covered under the policy. 
Ms T wasnt happy with the response she received from QIC. So she referred the matter to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ts complaint and said QIC had followed the terms 
and conditions of the policy and were within its rights to decline the claim. She said the 
survey confirms there was no physical damage to the property from the leaking pipe. And 
because there was no damage or loss there is no cover in place. 
Ms T didnt agree. She said when she contacted QIC to report the problem it told her she 
had trace and access cover through the policy and to instruct a leak detection company to 
locate the leak, which she did. When the surveyor went to assess the damage he said he 
would need to check whether there was cover in place as leak detection work wasnt always 
covered. 
Our investigator requested the calls between Ms T and the insurer following Ms Ts 
comments. Unfortunately the call when Ms T first reported the matter was no longer 
available. And so the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms T wasnt happy with the investigators outcome and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Ms T. Ive no doubt it would have 
been upsetting for her when she was told QIC wouldnt reimburse her for the trace and 
access work the leak detection company had carried out. And I understand Ms T took out a 
home insurance policy to help assist in difficult situations such as this. So when QIC 
declined the claim I can understand the distress this would have caused. Im aware the cost 
of the leak detection and repairs is significant. And I want to assure Ms T Ive considered this 
at length when making my decision. 
But I also need to be clear when explaining its not my role to re-underwrite Ms Ts claim. Its 
my role to decide whether QIC assessed and declined the claim fairly, against the evidence 
available to it. And that it acted in line with the terms of the policy when doing so. And in this 
instance I think it has. 
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to decide what risks 
they are prepared to cover. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract and 
sets out what is and isnt covered. So my starting point is the policy which sets out a list of 
circumstances covered by the policy. 
QIC declined the claim under the escape of water clause which says;
We will cover loss or damage caused by: 
(i) Fixed domestic water installation;
(ii) Heating system (including radiators and boilers); 
(iii) Washing machine, dishwasher, fridge, or freezer;
at your property
Ive reviewed the evidence provided by both parties and listened to the available calls. There 
is no dispute there was a leak. The clause here provides cover for loss or damage caused 
by an escape of water. But there was no visible damage caused by the leak since it was 
under the kitchen floor. Ms T confirms as much in her call to QIC. So Im satisfied QIC 
reasonably declined the claim. 
The section relating to trace and access says; 
We will also pay up to £10,000 per incident for reasonable and necessary costs to remove 
any part of the building to find the source of damage to your home caused by;
(a)Water escaping from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus, or pipes.The purpose of trace and access is to find the source of damage caused by the escape of 
water. The leak must result damage to the home in order for the trace and access cover to 
apply. And since there is no visible damage caused by the leak the clause doesnt apply. So 
I think it was reasonable for QIC to have determined this and declined the claim.
I know Ms T strongly believes she was told the trace and access cover would cover the cost 
of the leak detection company. Unfortunately that call is no longer available. But Ive 
considered Ms Ts testimony against that of QIC and the other information available to me. 
Ms T may well have been told the trace and access may cover the costs, and it may have. 
But there will always be exclusions, limitations, and policy terms when making an insurance 
claim. And an insurer will always have to validate a claim before paying any settlement. 
QIC have denied Ms T was told she would be covered for the trace and access. Ive seen it 
explain that Ms T was told to use a leak detection company to locate the leak, as its the 
policyholders responsibility to locate the source of the leak itself. And until a surveyor can 
attend and validate an escape of water claim QIC doesnt know at that stage whether the 
claim would be covered. So without any record of the conversation I dont think I have 
enough evidence to satisfy me this advice was purposefully or mistakenly provided. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms T was hoping for. But any decision I make must be 
both fair and impartial. And in this situation I think QIC has acted fairly and in line with the 
terms of Ms Ts policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint about QIC Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman