DRN-1481271
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Medicash Health Benefits Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
under his employers group healthcare cash plan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W was a member of his employers group healthcare cash plan insurance policy, held 
with Medicash. The policy would reimburse Mr W the cost of certain private medical 
treatments.
Mr W hurt his finger. He underwent private treatment which cost £200. He later made a claim 
to Medicash to claim back the cost of the treatment.
After obtaining further information from Mr W, and making enquiries with the treatment 
provider, Medicash declined the claim. It said that the type of treatment which Mr W had 
received wasnt eligible for cover under the terms of the policy. 
Mr W was unhappy at Medicashs decision. He considered his claim should be paid. He also 
said he hadnt received the policys terms and conditions.
Medicash didnt uphold his complaint. It said the terms and conditions had been sent to him 
at the time he joined the scheme.
Mr W referred his complaint to us. He considered that his treatment was eligible for cover 
under the terms of the policy. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Medicash had acted fairly and that the treatment which Mr W had received didnt fall 
under any of the headings for which the policy would provide cover.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. He pointed out that complementary therapies 
wasnt defined under the policy and said that the policy terms were therefore unclear and 
unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has referred to an extract from the policy which states:
Treatment or Treatments  This includes any medical or surgical treatment you may have to 
diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury. Treatment will usually last from the date 
you receive your first treatment to the date you have your final treatment.
Mr W believes that this means any treatment received should be eligible for cover under the 
policy.
However, the policy needs to be read as a whole. The extract to which Mr W has referred is 
the policys definition of treatment but the policy elsewhere makes clear that not all 
treatment is eligible for cover. And this is what I would expect. No insurance policy of this 
nature is likely to cover every single type of treatment which the policyholder might undergo.
In the case of this policy, the types of treatment which are covered are clearly described 
under separate headings. These headings include, for example, Routine dental treatment 
and Diagnostic tests and scans. Unless a particular type of treatment is listed under one of 
these headings, no cover is available under the policy.
Mr W received herbal medicine followed by three sessions of therapy massage. However, 
these treatments are not listed anywhere in the policy as being eligible for cover. 
The closest headings which might apply to the claim are Complementary therapies and 
Alternative therapies. However, the policy goes on to list the particular types of treatment 
which are covered under these headings and neither herbal medicine nor therapy massage 
are among them.
Mr W has argued that complementary therapies wasnt defined under the policy and that 
the policy terms are therefore unclear and unfair. I disagree. The policy clearly lists the types 
of treatment, for example physiotherapy and acupuncture, which are included under the 
heading of complementary therapies. The policy will provide cover for these types of 
treatment. If a particular type of complementary therapy, such as therapy massage, does not 
feature in this list then clearly no cover will apply.
Overall, Im satisfied that herbal medicine and therapy massage do not feature anywhere 
among the list of treatments for which benefit is available. In view of this,  I consider it was 
reasonable for Medicash to decline Mr Ws claim.
Mr W has said that he didnt receive the terms and conditions when he joined the policy. 
However, Medicash has provided evidence to show that these were sent to him at that time. 
I therefore consider that Mr W had no reason to assume before embarking on the treatment 
that Medicash would cover its cost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman