DRN-2395118
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Intelligent Finance, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003 during a phone call when Miss B was 
applying for a mortgage. The policy covered her if she couldn't work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss B didn't agree 
so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I didnt agree with our adjudicator and thought that the complaint should be upheld. I 
explained my reasons as follows:
This all happened many years ago and there isnt a full record of exactly what 
happened. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Miss B complains she was pressured into taking the PPI. But I dont need to make a 
finding about this because Im minded to uphold this complaint for another reason. 
Let me explain.
Intelligent Finance recommended the PPI to Miss B, so it had to check whether it was 
suitable for her. I dont think it was suitable, based on her circumstances at the time.
Miss B told us she would have received full pay from her employer for six months if 
she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. She also had the benefit of a 
permanent health insurance scheme (PHI). Shes been able to give us details of the 
scheme which shows that, after six months, she would have received 75% of her pay 
until she returned to work, or until she retired. She also had some savings.
So Miss B would have received an income close to what she was earning when she 
was working.
Overall, I dont think Miss B had enough need for PPI in her circumstances.
I think it most likely that if Intelligent Finance had asked Miss B about her existing
arrangements, it wouldnt have recommended the policy and Miss B wouldnt have 
taken it.
And I set out how I thought Intelligent Finance this should put things right.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, and havent provided any further 
information or evidence, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
Intelligent Finance should put Miss B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Intelligent Finance 
should:
Pay Miss B the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Intelligent Finance can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Intelligent Finance paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B to reflect the high 
level of commission and profit share it got and which it didnt tell Miss B about. If Miss B 
has cashed the cheque, or if it remains valid, Intelligent Finance can take this amount off 
what it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Intelligent Finance to take off tax from this interest. 
Intelligent Finance must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Intelligent 
Finance, should pay compensation to Miss B as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman