DRN-3903120
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him an incorrect figure when he asked it 
for the current redemption charge (ERC) payable on his mortgage. He also complains that 
the correct ERC payable isnt compliant with current legislation about how an ERC can be 
calculated.
What happened
In 2020 Mr T applied for a mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage offer, sent to Mr T by 
Barclays on 9 December 2020, confirmed the details of the mortgage. It said Mr T would 
borrow £192,999 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 35 years. The offer also said 
the mortgage rate would be fixed at 1.85% until 31 October 2022 and that, should Mr T 
choose to redeem the mortgage between 1 January 2021 and 31 October 2022, an ERC of 
2% of the amount repaid would become payable. In respect of the ERC, the mortgage offer 
showed a cash example of £3,860.00, which equates to 2% of the full amount borrowed.
Mr T says he contacted Barclays on 29 October 2021 to discuss applying for a new interest 
rate deal. He says he was told, on several occasions, the early redemption charge payable 
would be around £5,400. And, based on that information, he didnt proceed with a product 
transfer. Mr T says, since then, hes discovered that, had Barclays quoted an ERC figure 
based on the mortgage offer, it wouldnt have complied with European Unions Mortgage 
Credit Directive Order 2015. Specifically, he says the ERC needs to represent the actual 
loss directly linked to the particular repayment. And the basis on which an ERC is calculated 
should change from a reasonable pre-estimate of costs to a fair and objectively justified 
compensation for potential costs directly linked to early repayment  not exceeding the 
lenders financial loss.
Mr T complained to Barclays. But as it didnt provide a final response within the eight weeks 
allowed, Mr T asked us to consider his complaint. 
Barclays says it has three telephone numbers on file for Mr T  work, mobile and home. It 
says it searched for records and recordings of calls from 1 October 2021 onwards, using 
each of those numbers. It said it found a recording of a call made on 29 October 2021 when 
Mr T was told the ERC would be £3,793.51. But it hasnt been able to find any evidence of it 
telling Mr H the ERC was approximately £5,400. It was able to find a record of a call on        
4 November 2021, but that was to a branch to book a mortgage enquiry and the call was not 
recorded. It added that Mr T switched to a new fixed rate deal from November 2022 so 
wasnt charged an ERC. But Barclays apologised for the delay in responding to Mr T and 
asked that we pass on its offer of £150 to compensate him in that regard.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said Barclays quoted the ERC in line 
with the terms and conditions Mr T agreed to when taking out the mortgage. She said the 
rules for ERCs are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and she was satisfied by 
evidence provided by Barclays that its ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of costs.
Mr T didnt agree. He argued that the ERC payable should not be more than the interest he 
was due to pay Barclays for the remainder of the fixed rate period. And Barclays should 
deduct from that the amount he would have paid in interest over the same time on a new 
rate. He says that equates to £390.92. Mr T says hes complained to the FCA about the 
failure of the British Government and the FCA to implement the European Unions mortgage 
directive, but hes not informed us of any response he may have received.
As Mr T disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ts complaint, Ive thought about whether Barclays misinformed him about the 
ERC payable and the impact that may have had. Ive also thought about whether Barclays 
set its ERC fairly.
Mr T says he was given an incorrect ERC figure when he spoke to Barclays on                   
29 October 2021. But Barclays hasnt been able to find a call in which it told Mr T the ERC 
would be approximately £5,400. That doesnt mean Mr T wasnt given an incorrect figure  
only that Barclays has been unable to trace that call. However, the transcript of the call 
shows that   Mr T was given an ERC value which correctly applied at that time, on              
29 October 2021. Had Mr T received contradicting values on or around that date, I think that 
ought to have prompted him to look at his mortgage offer to see which value was in line with 
the terms of his mortgage. So, even if Barclays did give Mr T an incorrect value, as it also 
gave him the correct one, I dont think that error was reasonably sufficient to prevent him 
from proceeding with his plans to apply for a new interest rate deal.
The mortgage conduct of business rules (MCOB) say early redemption charges on 
mortgages must be a reasonable pre-estimate of costs incurred to the lender as a result of 
the borrower repaying the mortgage back early. But it also says that estimate of costs can be 
calculated across a group of mortgages of a similar type. That means the cost doesnt have 
to be specific to the actual mortgage being redeemed. Calculating the estimated cost over a 
group of mortgages allows a lender to tell a borrower in advance  at the point of sale  
specifically, what it will charge if their mortgage is redeemed at a given point within the early 
redemption period (usually coinciding with the fixed rate period).
Barclays has provided us full details of its calculations used when pre-estimating its costs for 
redemption within the term of the interest rate deal  the ERC shown on the mortgage offer 
letter it sent to Mr T. I understand Mr T may like us to share details of Barclayss calculation 
so that he can satisfy himself of its fairness. But that information is commercially sensitive, 
so I am unable to share that with him or go into any detail about the calculation. Instead, our 
approach is to consider the information provided to decide whether we think the ERC is a 
reasonable pre-estimate of Barclayss costs. Having done so Ive seen that Barclayss pre-
estimate of the costs it would incur for early redemption are in line than those it would charge 
Mr T for early redemption. So, I think the early redemption charges, as outlined in Mr Ts 
mortgage offer letter, are fair. 
Mr T has said he thinks the European Union mortgage directive supersedes the FCAs 
MCOB rules, specifically in relation to how an ERC can be calculated. The FCA does update 
MCOB taking into account changes to law and other factors. However, it is for the FCA to 
decide how best to interpret and embed those changes to MCOB. The FCA hasnt deemed it 
necessary to change MCOB with regard to how UK mortgage lenders should calculate 
ERCs, so thats the guidance Ive followed here. Ive seen no compelling reason to depart from that approach, particularly as Ive seen that the ERC was made clear and gave a cash 
example in the mortgage offer that Mr T agreed to when taking out his mortgage.
Overall, I havent seen that Barclays misinformed Mr T about the ERC payable when he 
called to enquire about that. And, if it did misinform him, I dont think that should reasonably 
have had a significant impact, given that it gave him the correct ERC at that time. Im 
persuaded that Barclays calculated its ERC fairly  based on a reasonable pre-estimate of 
costs. And Im satisfied that measure is still what the FCA expects of mortgage lenders when 
calculating ERCs. So, that means I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Ive not considered Barclayss delay in responding to Mr Ts complaint here. So, Ill leave it 
with Barclays to arrange payment of the offer its made to Mr T in that regard, if it hasnt 
made that payment already.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman