DRN-4322418
The complaint
Miss M complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to turn down her claim 
under a private medical insurance policy.
Miss M is represented by Mr M.
What happened
Miss M is covered under a group private medical insurance policy with AXA. Mr M submitted 
a claim to AXA for Miss M after she had a consultation with a dermatologist.
AXA turned down the claim as it didnt think Mr M had provided enough information to show 
that the consultation was covered by the policy. Unhappy with AXAs claims decision, Mr M 
brought a complaint to this Service on Miss Ms behalf.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXAs decision to 
turn down the claim had been reasonable, based on the available evidence.
Mr M then provided new evidence from the dermatologist. We sent this to AXA, but it still 
didnt think the claim was payable.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 August 2023. Heres what I said:
Mr M told AXA that Miss M suffered from dermatology and needed to see a specialist. AXA 
asked for some more information about this, and Mr M said she had a skin disorder on her 
neck and shoulder. Mr M then told AXA hed made an appointment with a dermatologist. 
AXA advised him that a GP referral would be needed for it to cover the consultation. AXA 
asked Mr M to discuss the condition with the GP, and said if the GP wanted Miss M to see a 
specialist, he should go back to AXA.
Mr M has provided a GP referral dated 2 November 2022. This only said Thank you for 
seeing the above patient for her ongoing skin concerns.
I would expect a GP referral letter to set out why a patient needs to see a specialist. Here, 
the GP didnt provide any details about Miss Ms skin concerns, or whether any treatment 
had been attempted.
AXA didnt think the GP referral letter showed that Miss Ms consultation with a dermatologist 
was medically necessary. I would agree with this. However, Mr M has now provided further 
evidence from the dermatologist (Dr A) dated 27 October 2022, which Ive considered.
First of all, I note that the GP referral was dated after Miss M had been to see Dr A. It seems 
from this that Miss M chose to seek a specialists opinion before seeing her GP.
Ive read Dr As letter and it appears that the appointment of 27 October 2022 was Miss Ms 
second visit with her. I havent seen a report from the first visit. Dr A said that, after a week 
of two ointments on the eyelids and neck, Miss Ms eczematous eruption had completely 
cleared. She said that Miss M had stopped all products, and could start to gradually 
reintroduce these.
The policy doesnt cover primary care services or treatment that would normally be carried 
out in a primary care setting.
Given the lack of information about Miss Ms skin problems, its not clear why Miss Ms GP 
could not have prescribed the ointments that she needed, or why Miss M needed to see a 
specialist.
I therefore find that it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim as Miss M has not 
provided enough information to show that the claim is covered.
AXA has noted Dr A mentioned that Miss M had stopped using all products. It is not known 
whether the use of cosmetic or beauty products caused Miss Ms skin problems, but if so, 
then AXA has pointed out that the policy excludes treatment that is needed as a result of 
using a cosmetic (beauty) product.
Miss M can of course provide further information to AXA from her GP and/or Dr A if she 
maintains that it was necessary for her to see a specialist. AXA can then consider the matter 
further.
I asked both parties if they had any further information or comments to make before I made 
my final decision. 
AXA responded to say it had no further comments to make. 
Mr M responded to say he did not accept the decision on Miss Ms behalf. He said her skin 
complaint was serious and needed urgent attention. He made the point that arranging to see 
a GP takes several days, and Dr A was available before the GP. Mr M also thought that if 
Miss M had seen a GP, there was no doubt the GP would have referred her to a specialist. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, I dont dispute that Miss Ms skin condition needed medical attention. The issue 
is that Miss M has not shown that she needed to see a specialist, rather than a GP. As Ive 
said, the policy doesnt cover treatment that would normally be carried out in a primary care 
setting. 
Mr M has said that if Miss M had seen a GP, there is no doubt the GP would have referred 
her to a specialist. However, I havent seen any evidence to support this. Given the nature of 
the treatment (ointments), it seems likely that a GP could have treated Miss M. Though 
Miss M can provide further information to AXA from her GP and/or Dr A for it to consider if 
she wishes.
Miss M decided to see Dr A because the appointment was available before her GP could 
see her. Whilst I can appreciate why Miss M chose to do this, it does not mean that AXA 
should disregard the policy terms and cover the cost of this. 
I therefore remain satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman