DRN-2766920
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to adhere to the relevant rules  
specifically, CONC 5.2.1 and PRIN 2.1.1  when making unsolicited offers of loans and then 
providing Mr R with loans in 2017 and 2018. He also complains that Barclays failed to 
adhere to DISP rule 1.4.1 in its investigation of his complaint.
What happened
Mr R was a long-standing customer of Barclays having both his personal and business 
account with Barclays as well as joint accounts with his wife. He says that in 2015 he 
started to suffer from depression, and this had an impact on his ability to work 
effectively. He says Barclays wouldnt have been aware of his mental health issues at 
that time.
Mr R says that in 2015, his business account was showing regular income and a healthy 
balance. However, by December 2016 this was no longer the case and he remortgaged 
his house and withdrew equity as part of this. He says he also withdrew funds on his 
credit card to transfer to his business account. Mr R says he then received notification 
that he had been pre-approved for a loan and in September 2017, the loan was 
provided, and he transferred the majority of this to his business account.
Mr R says he then received another notification in April 2018 about being pre-approved 
for a loan and following an online chat a further loan for £25,000 was provided to him. 
He says that Barclays didnt carry out reasonable affordability checks before providing 
the loans and that based on the information available to Barclays it should have been 
concerned that lending to him wasnt sustainable.
Mr R says that he was vulnerable at the time of the loan offers and that although the 
loans werent his best course of action receiving the unsolicited offers meant it was easy 
to take these loans. He says that although his mental health issue wasnt caused by 
Barclays the provision of the loans made his situation worse.
Barclays says that Mr R was pre-approved for the loans. It issued a final response letter 
which said that Mr R met its lending and credit check criteria. It said that Mr R had 
explained what the loans were for and as they were for personal use Mr Rs personal 
accounts were part of the assessment not his business accounts. It says that Mr Rs 
personal accounts showed positive disposable income.
Barclays says that its process includes asking two specific questions. One as to whether 
there are any recent changes to the customers circumstances that might affect their 
ability to repay the loan and the second to confirm the information provided is factually 
correct. It says that there was no evidence when the loans were provided that Mr R was 
experiencing financial difficulties. It says that at the time of the complaint Mr R had been 
maintaining his repayments on the loans.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Barclays wasnt aware that 
Mr R had been suffering from depression from 2015 and he didnt think that Barclays 
had breached PRIN 2.1 by making Mr R aware of loan offers that were available. He 
said Barclays would have been sending the loan offers to its customers and that being 
pre-approved for a loan didnt mean that the loan would be provided. He said if a 
customer wished to take advantage of the loan offer further checks would take place. 
Therefore, he didnt uphold this part of Mr Rs complaint.
Regarding the loans provided in 2017 and 2018, our investigator thought that the checks 
carried out by Barclays before lending were reasonable. He said that Mr R met Barclays 
lending criteria and it was Mr Rs responsibility to provide accurate and up to date 
information. He said it wasnt our role to decide on a banks lending policy but instead to 
assess whether reasonable affordability and sustainability checks in line with CONC 
5.2.1 took place. Our investigator thought this had happened and so didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said he didnt think Barclays calculation of 
affordability was substantiated and reiterated that he believed the lending was 
irresponsible.
My provisional conclusions 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr R was experiencing mental health issues at the time the loans were offered 
but I had nothing to suggest that Barclays should have been reasonably aware of 
this. While Mr Rs financial situation had been declining before the loans were 
offered I didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong by sending Mr R the 
loan offers. Mr R was a long standing customer of Barclays with both his 
business and personal accounts with the bank. I noted it wasnt unusual for 
banks to contact their customers with offers of loan products that it thought may 
be if interest and I had nothing to suggest Mr R had asked not to be contacted. 
There was no requirement for Mr R to take up the loan offers and while I said I 
would have expected further checks before any money was advanced, I did not 
find that Barclays was wrong to send the offers 
Mr R took out a loan for £25,000 with Barclays in September 2017 and a further 
loan for £25,000 in April 2018. Before these loans were provided I said that 
Barclays was expected to have carried out reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. The regulations, including those that Mr R referred to, set out 
that lending needed to be affordable and sustainable, and that adequate 
information needed to be gathered to establish this.
I didnt think the checks carried out before the loans were provided were 
sufficient. Barclays said that before the 2017 loan transactional data was 
gathered over a six month period to ensure that any monthly anomalies were 
evened out. And that based on its assessment the loan was affordable. Having 
looked through Mr Rs accounts I didnt think it was reasonable to rely solely on 
the transactional data. I explained it wasnt our role to audit accounts but having 
looked through the account information I didnt think that Mr Rs accounts gave a 
clear indication that his income was enough to meet the repayments and I 
thought that further checks should have taken place before the loan was provided. Had further checks taken place I thought this would have raised 
concerns that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr R.
I also thought further checks should have happened before the 2018 loan was 
provided. Mr R had maintained his repayments under the 2017 loan but given he 
had borrowed £25,000 just over six months earlier and was now requiring a 
further £25,000 I thought further checks should have taken place to ensure 
payments on both the loans were sustainable. Again, having looked through the 
information provided I didnt think this gave a clear picture of an income stream 
sufficient to sustainably meet the repayments. And I thought had further checks 
taken place these would have shown the loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr R received the funds from the loans and so I thought it reasonable that he 
should be required to pay back the capital amount borrowed. As I thought the 
loans werent sustainably affordable, I said that all interest and charges should be 
waived, and all payments made to date should be offset against the outstanding 
balance so that Mr R was only liable for the capital repayment. I also noted that if 
there was still an outstanding capital balance after Mr Rs payments had been 
offset that Barclays should work with Mr R to agree an affordable repayment 
plan.
Mr R also complained about the service he received when he raised his 
complaint. I understood his concerns, but I found that Barclays did provide Mr R 
with a timely response to his complaint. While Mr R didnt agree with Barclays 
response, and I didnt think the right outcome had been reached, I didnt find I 
could say Mr R wasnt provided with the service he should have been when 
contacting Barclays about the issues he had experienced.
Barclays accepted the provisional decision in principle. It said that it would need to 
restructure the loans after the interest and charges had been refunded. It said Mr R 
would need to complete an income and expenditure assessment and that before a new 
loan could be set up Mr R would need to make three months payments to show 
affordability. After this the new loan could be set up with no interest and old loans closed 
down. It said the adverse information regarding the original loans would be removed 
from Mr Rs credit file and the new loan reported on his credit file.
Mr R provided further comments and evidence in response to my provisional decision. I 
have noted the key points raised:
Service  Mr R didnt accept that he had been provided with the service he 
should have. He noted he had been told that one of his accounts hadnt been 
included in the calculations, but it had then been confirmed to this service as 
being included. He also noted that there was an incorrect statement about him 
taking out the loan in branch. He said that had he known the additional account 
had been included he would have been able to challenge Barclays initial decision 
and this issue may have been resolved sooner.
Loan offers  Mr R said that as my provisional decision concluded the loans were 
unaffordable it should also be the case that the loan offers shouldnt have been 
made.Information from Barclays  Mr R said that information about the criteria for 
Barclays affordability checks hadnt been provided. He said information from 
Barclays was relied on and didnt provide an accurate picture. He said that the 
transactional data from his accounts clearly showed the loans werent affordable. 
He noted that my provisional decision said there was a salary payment of 
£10,000 in February 2018 but Mr R said this wasnt correct and his total income 
for the tax year was around £11,500. 
Pre-approval checks  Mr R believed that as no manual checks took place the 
checks stopped at the preapproval stage. He said his accounts had shown a 
significant decline and he felt the loans were only offered when he was in 
financial difficulties. 
Benefit of the money -Mr R didnt agree with the comment that he had the benefit 
of the money provided. While he accepted he received the money he said this 
meant there was a delay in him seeking help and drove him further into debt. He 
said he wasnt capable at the time of proactively seeking the loans and had they 
not been offered he would have addressed the issues he was experiencing a lot 
sooner.
Mr R said that due to the issues he had raised and the impact of the loans he felt it fair 
the loans were written off, repayments refunded, and an amount paid in compensation to 
reflect his costs associated with other debts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not find that the checks carried out before the 
loans were provided in 2017 and 2018 were adequate. Mr R has raised concerns about the 
lack of information provided by Barclays about its affordability checks and the information 
relied on in my assessment. I note the comments raised and the information Mr R provided 
in response to my provisional decision. As I have explained my role isnt to provide an audit 
of the accounts but as I did find that the evidence raised concerns about the affordability of 
the loans and Barclays accepted this outcome in principle, I find it reasonable to accept that 
the loans shouldnt have been considered sustainably affordable for Mr R.
Mr R has said that his financial situation was clear before the offers of pre-approved loans 
were made. I understand the point he has made and his refence to the guidelines. However, 
as I previously set out, I also accept that Barclays will provide information to customers 
about products that are available. While Mr R has raised concerns that further checks 
werent then carried out after the pre-approval, I would expect that Barclays would carry out 
any additional checks to ensure the product was suitable. In this case I do not think these 
checks went far enough and so adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were 
provided to Mr R. 
Mr R has raised concerns about the service he received, and I can see there was a 
misunderstanding about the accounts Barclays included in its assessment and about the 
discussion in branch. I agree this isnt the service Mr R should have received but, on 
balance, I find that remedying the situation with the loans is a reasonable outcome to all of 
the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I recommended that all interest and charges be removed from the loans and all payments made to date be allocated as if they had been payments towards the 
outstanding capital. I also recommended that any adverse information about the loans be 
removed from Mr Rs credit file. Mr R doesnt believe this goes far enough given the issues 
he has raised and the impact they have had on him. He thinks the loans should be written 
off, payments refunded, and compensation paid. 
I cannot imagine how difficult the last few years have been for Mr R and I can understand 
why he feels my recommendation didnt go far enough. However, my role isnt to punish the 
bank but instead try to put Mr R back into the position he would have been had the loans not 
been provided. I note his comments that had the loans not been offered he wouldnt have 
sought these and would have not continued to get further into debt. However, I cannot say 
what would have happened and whether Mr R would have looked elsewhere for credit had 
these loans not been offered. I understand the comment he makes about saying he had the 
benefit of the loans and I appreciate why he doesnt feel his is an appropriate description of 
the situation. However, I have to be fair to both parties. In this case Mr R was provided with 
the money by Barclays and so I find it fair that he is required to repay what he borrowed -. 
but my recommendation is that he should pay no more than that  so I do not find that he 
should be liable for any interest or charges. Instead he should only be required to repay the 
capital amount of the loans.
Barclays has said it will restructure a new loan after the interest and charges have been 
refunded and that an income and expenditure assessment will need to take place. I find it 
reasonable that Barclays work with Mr R to establish the best way of restructuring his 
outstanding debt (post the refund of interest and charges) and I agree that any repayments 
will need to be assessed to ensure they are affordable to Mr R. I wouldnt expect Mr R to be 
expected to continue to make monthly repayments at the amount he is currently making 
given what he has explained about his situation and the overall effect my decision here will 
have on whats owed. 
I would expect action to be taken to ensure an affordable approach to repayment is put in 
place as soon as possible. Barclays has said that Mr R will need to make three months of 
payments to show the affordability of any loan that may be provided  but ultimately any way 
forward will need to be agreed between both parties here in terms of whats affordable and 
on what terms it should be repaid, if my decision is accepted.
Barclays has agreed that any adverse information regarding the original 2017 and 2018 
loans will be removed from Mr Rs credit file. I agree that going forward it is reasonable that 
the situation regarding Mr Rs ongoing payments is recorded on his credit file, as Barclays is 
entitled to report accurate information that reflects the conduct of an account to the credit 
reference agencies.
Given Mr Rs circumstances, I would expect Barclays to treat him positively and 
sympathetically regarding the repayment of any outstanding balance. 
Putting things right
I think Barclays Bank UK PLC should have carried out further checks before the loans were 
provided and had it done so these would have raised concerns that the loans werent 
sustainably affordable. Because of this I think Mr R should only be liable for the repayment 
of the capital amounts borrowed. This means that Barclays Bank UK PLC should waive all 
interest and charges on the loans and apply all payments Mr R has made towards the loans 
as though they were payments of capital. 
If there is an outstanding capital balance due on the loans after the repayments have been 
offset then Barclays should work with Mr R to agree an affordable way to repay this either through a repayment plan or by restructuring a new loan without any interest. I agree that 
any repayment plan or new loan would need to be based on an income and expenditure 
assessment.
In the event any adverse information has been recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding either 
the 2017 or 2018 loan, this should be removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman