DRN-4267119
The complaint
Mr M complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs handling of his home insurance claim.
West Bay is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As West Bay has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to West Bay includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr M made an escape of water claim under his home insurance policy with 
West Bay. Water ingress from a neighbouring property had caused damage to Mr Ms 
lounge, basement storeroom and some contents.
West Bay instructed their loss adjusters to deal with the claim. Arrangements were made for 
drying equipment to be installed and a property maintenance company were appointed for 
repairs to the building. 
Mr M raised concerns that the drying equipment had been removed too soon as there were 
signs of damp in his property. West Bay said it would arrange for the property to be 
reinspected. It later told Mr M that the property had been dried to its pre-loss condition. It 
said that as the basement was not tanked, there was rising damp which was causing the 
current dampness. 
West Bay told Mr M that due to the pre-existing damp, he would need to sign a disclaimer 
before repairs to his storeroom could be completed by its contractors. Mr M disputed there 
was rising damp, but he said he was looking into appointing a contractor to install a damp 
proof course. He said he wasnt comfortable with signing a disclaimer because he wasnt 
convinced West Bay had taken sufficient measures to dry the storeroom.
West Bay told Mr M it could offer him a cash settlement based on what it would cost its 
contractors to carry out the work. Mr M queried the amount West Bay said it would cost and 
provided a quote from his own contractor, which was much higher. 
West Bay said Mr Ms contractors quote included some elements that werent covered by 
the claim, and it was trying to get a breakdown from Mr Ms contractors. It suggested Mr M 
might want to get a second quote for cost comparison.
After some further discussion, Mr M said he understood that West Bays contractors would 
not undertake the work. He said he hadnt been able to source any other contractors for 
property repairs, so hed instructed his contractor to proceed with the work. 
West Bay paid Mr M a cash settlement of £2,800 (less the policy excess) in respect of the 
repairs. Mr Z was unhappy with this as he felt West Bay should pay the full quote of £4,746.
In the meantime, West Bay told Mr M that it wasnt willing to cover the cost of his sound 
system in his contents claim settlement, because it had been unable to validate the items. 
Mr M complained to West Bay about these matters as well as some other outstanding 
issues.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, West Bay said it thought the £2,800 it had offered in full 
and final settlement for his building repairs was fair. It said it understood the quote Mr M had 
provided from his own contractor included shelving. There was no evidence in support of the 
shelving because it was disposed of prior to the inspection. 
West Bay said it was unable to settle the sound system unless evidence could be provided 
in support of it. 
West Bay apologised that Mr Ms claim had been subject to poor communication resulting in 
avoidable delays. It said it had arranged for a payment of £400 to be sent to him to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset this had caused. 
Our investigator thought the settlement West Bay had paid Mr M for the building repairs was 
fair. She was also satisfied it had acted fairly with respect to drying the property and refusing 
to pay towards the replacement of Mr Ms sound system. But she recommended West Bay 
increase its compensation award for distress and inconvenience by £350.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 July 2023, where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mr M has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
Building repairs
Mr M says that West Bay arranged for dehumidifiers to be removed before his storeroom 
was sufficiently dry. West Bay says its satisfied that the room was dried to its pre-loss 
condition. It says the damp Mr M reported after the dehumidifiers were removed was rising 
damp as a result of a building defect with the property. 
West Bay told Mr M it had taken a salt test which concluded the dampness was positive with 
nitrates which was an indication of rising damp, and provided a photograph of water 
samples. I appreciate Mr M would have liked to have seen a more formal report to evidence 
the pre-existing damp. However, the loss adjusters report from the visit in May 2022 also 
notes pre existing damp in a number of places. So, on balance, I think there was likely to 
have been pre-existing damp in Mr Ms property.
Due to concerns about pre-existing damp, West Bay told Mr M he would need to sign a 
disclaimer before its contractor would start work. Mr M has asked for a copy of the disclaimer 
form. Im not sure if one was sent to him. However, I can see from emails that Mr M was told 
he would need to sign a disclaimer before West Bays contractors would proceed with the 
repairs. And I can also see that Mr M said he wasnt prepared to sign one. Mr M has queried why West Bay needed him to sign a disclaimer when hed already said he 
was arranging for damp proof course works to be carried out. I think Mr M has raised a fair 
point here. 
Mr M mentioned that he was willing to arrange and/or pay for damp proofing several times in 
his correspondence with West Bay. He also indicated that his preference was for West Bays 
contractors to carry out the repairs to his building. However, it seems that West Bays 
contractors decided they werent willing to carry out the work.
The terms of the policy say:
If we can offer a repair or replacement through a supplier we have approved but we agree 
to make a cash settlement, or for you to use your own supplier, any payment we make will 
not be more than the amount we would have paid our approved supplier
We will settle other claims by paying the costs incurred, after taking account of any relevant 
monetary limit shown under the Buildings cover option.
The estimate of repairs on West Bays schedule is around £1,500 (excluding VAT). West 
Bays final cash settlement for the building work was £2,800 (including VAT). So, West Bay 
doesnt appear to have limited it to the amount it would have cost it if its approved 
contractors had carried out the repairs.
However, the quote Mr M provided from the contractor who ended up carrying out the work 
was considerably higher than the amount West Bay paid at £4,746.71.
Within this quote is an amount of £1,080.90 for supplying and fitting metal shelving. West 
Bay says it wasnt willing to cover the cost of shelving because there was no evidence to 
show that this was in situ prior to the loss. 
In the email West Bay sent to Mr M advising of its final cash settlement offer, it referred to Mr 
M saying that his original shelves were wooden, and they may have been able to be reused. 
However, Mr M had disposed of them without them being checked to see if they could be 
reused or saved. The email also refers to Mr M saying he had no evidence of the shelves in 
situ or evidence that they were beyond repair. West Bay said it was unable to consider the 
costs of these materials, but it had included labour costs for putting the brackets back on in 
the building settlement. 
I havent seen any evidence to contradict what West Bay said about the shelving. So, I dont 
intend to tell it to pay the costs of new shelves. 
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint West Bay said its loss adjusters were of the opinion 
that Mr Ms contractors costs were excessive. It said it had asked Mr M to provide a second 
quote for comparison, but Mr M had declined this.
I can see that West Bay suggested Mr M obtain a second quote for comparison in the 
absence of (it) being able to obtain this breakdown from (his) contractor. And I can see that 
Mr M said he didnt intend to source a second estimate.
However, it looks like a revised quote from Mr Ms contractor was provided at some point 
after that. Its unclear from the information I have whether or not West Bay asked Mr M to 
provide a quote from another contractor following this. And I can see Mr M told West Bay he 
wasnt able to get a quote from another contractor. I appreciate West Bay feels that Mr Ms contractors costs were excessive. However, I 
havent seen evidence to show that West Bays cash settlement was enough to cover Mr Ms 
costs. Mr M has provided invoices to show that his contractor carried out the work in 
December 2022 for a similar price to what Mr M was quoted. Keeping in mind that Mr Ms 
preference was for West Bays contractors to carry out the work, I think it would be fair for 
West Bays cash settlement to be increased to better reflect Mr Ms actual costs.
After removing the cost of the shelving, the quote works out to be £3,665.71. I dont have 
any information to show me what the cost of fitting the brackets would be. So, to keep things 
simple, I think a fair resolution would be for West Bay to pay Mr M £3,700 (minus the £2,550 
its already paid and the £250 policy excess). This means that West Bay should pay Mr M an 
additional £900 for the building repairs.
Mr M has provided two invoices from his contractor dated December 2022. I think it would be 
fair for West Bay to pay Mr M interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the second 
invoice (30 December 2022) to the date the settlement is paid, to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money.
Sound system
Mr M is unhappy that West Bay has refused to cover the cost of his sound system that he 
says was damaged as a result of the escape of water incident.
The policy terms say:
You must provide any information, evidence and help we need to consider your claim. The 
type of information and evidence that may be needed includes original purchase receipts, 
photographs, invoices, instruction booklets, utility bills, valuations, bank or credit card 
statements, guarantee cards, pre-purchase surveys or plans, deeds of your property and 
estimates for repair or replacement.
Mr M says he paid around £3,000 for the sound system about 10 years before the incident 
and the cost seems to have more than doubled. 
Given the high value of the items, I dont think it was unreasonable for West Bay to have 
insisted on Mr M providing proof of ownership before it would agree to settle this part of his 
claim.
Mr M says he doesnt have receipts for the items. I can see he emailed the retailer that he 
says sold him the sound system to see if they could provide proof of purchase. The retailer 
said it didnt have historic records on its system, possibly due to GDPR restrictions. The 
retailer also provided the last selling price for the items Mr M described as well as the cost of 
replacing them from its current range. 
Mr M says that he included the sound system on the list of damaged items he sent to West 
Bay prior to the loss adjusters visit. He says the items were there for the loss adjuster to 
inspect, test and photograph. 
I can see that audio equipment is showing on the contents list with a claimed cost of £500, 
which Mr M says is the amount he originally intended to claim for. Mr M has commented that 
his wife, who was present during the visit, said the loss adjuster was very casual when he 
visited, he glanced at where all the damaged contents were and did not really inspect 
anything. So, it doesnt seem that the loss adjuster gave the impression that he had 
inspected, tested or photographed the sound system. Nor I have I seen any other evidence 
to suggest that West Bay led Mr M to believe that he had.The policy terms also say:
You should not get rid of any damaged items or pay any amounts to repair damage without 
our permission, except for emergency repairs to prevent further loss or damage.
I appreciate that West Bay might not have asked Mr M for evidence of ownership until 
several months after hed made his claim. But there is nothing to suggest that West Bay had 
approved the settlement of the items or gave Mr M permission to dispose of them. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, but as he hasnt been able to evidence his 
ownership of the sound system, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell West Bay to settle this part of 
his complaint.
Recovery of costs
Mr M has also raised concerns that West Bay may not have pursued a claim for recovery of 
its costs from his neighbours insurer. However, its up to West Bay if it wants to do this and 
it wont make a difference to Mr Ms claim record. So, I havent found reason to uphold this 
part of his claim.
Distress and inconvenience
West Bay has acknowledged issues with its communication with Mr M which resulted in 
avoidable delays. It paid Mr M £400 compensation for this but disagreed with our 
investigators recommendation to pay Mr M a further £350.
Mr M says he wasnt able to use his storeroom for around seven months. Some of this was 
unavoidable as it needed to be dried out and repairs needed to be completed. I also 
acknowledge what West Bay has said about lead times. 
West Bay has acknowledged failings in its communication with Mr M which caused delays. 
But it believes the £400 its already paid Mr M is enough to compensate him for this. It says 
that some of the delay was because Mr M refused to sign the disclaimer for its contractors to 
do the work which meant that he then needed to go and get quotes. 
However, Ive explained why I dont think it was fair for West Bay to have decided to give Mr 
M a cash settlement. Mr M had indicated that he was willing to pay for a new damp proof 
course in September 2022. He also made it clear that his preference was for West Bays 
contractors to carry out the work. I cant see any reason why West Bay couldnt have agreed 
to carry out the building repairs once Mr M had arranged for the damp proof course work to 
be completed.
If it had done so, Mr M wouldnt have needed to go to the trouble of finding his own 
contractor to give him a quote. And I think things could have moved forward more quickly. 
West Bay has commented that Mr M could have placed items back in the storeroom once 
the drying certificate had been issued. However, Im not persuaded that this was practical 
when other works needed to be carried out and Mr M was concerned about damp in the 
room. 
Mr M says he needed to store items in his dining room and downstairs bathroom whilst the 
storage room was out of use. Hes provided photographs to show that his dining room 
couldnt be used because of this. Aside from not having an appropriate space to store items, I think Mr M also experienced 
frustration and inconvenience due to West Bays poor communication with him. There was 
further inconvenience from him needing to arrange his own repairs. 
I appreciate Mr M doesnt think its enough and West Bay thinks its too much, but I think a 
total of £750 would be reasonable to compensate Mr M for distress and inconvenience. So, I 
intend to tell West Bay to pay him £350 in addition to what its already paid.
I set out what I intended to direct West Bay to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr M provided some photographs, including one showing shelving in situ at the time of the 
incident. He said the shelving couldnt be reused because it was damaged. And the shelves 
couldnt be reattached to the wall as screws would have penetrated his new damp proof 
course and breached the warranty. 
Mr M also referred to his contractors invoice of May 2022 which says he was required to 
strip out the existing basement after the incident. He said the shelving had to be removed as 
the plaster had been taken down. He could try contact the contractor to get a statement that 
he removed the original fixed shelves, and they could not be re-used.
Mr M said he did not believe that the settlement should be discounted, and the cost of 
replacement shelving excluded.
Mr M said he was also unhappy that West Bay has refused to cover the cost of his sound 
system. He said it was available for inspection at the loss adjusters visit. As there was no 
instruction to retain it, there was no reason to suspect there was an issue. He said the sound 
system was disposed of in the skip that was provided for plaster, carpet and other items. He 
thought it was logical to use the skip to dispose of all damaged items.
Mr M said he didnt originally seek the replacement cost as new for the sound system. He 
wasnt aware how much the cost had increased. He had forwarded the invoice for the 
replacement which was significantly more. It was a more sophisticated system, but he only 
expected like for like. 
Mr M said he didnt think it was unreasonable that he hadnt retained the original receipt for 
the sound system as hed moved house since purchasing it. He also asked whether West 
Bay or the ombudsman are contending his claim for the sound system was fraudulent. He 
said he could get witness statements from his wife, family members and possibly the 
contractor to confirm the sound system was present and disposed of.
Mr M said he accepted it was up to West Bay to decide whether it intended to pursue a 
subrogated recovery, but he felt he was the innocent victim. He was concerned about it 
affecting his claim experience. His neighbour had accepted responsibility for the flood.
Mr M made some further comments about West Bays handling of his claim. He said he 
didnt think it was enough but was prepared to accept the ombudsmans recommendation of 
£750 for distress and inconvenience.
West Bay said that whilst Mr M had advised he was prepared to pay for the damp proof 
course works, it didnt solve the problem of its contractors completing work on an area that 
had pre-existing damage and technically was not in a good state of repair prior to the escape of water. It said if Mr Ms property had not had pre-existing issues, its contractors would have 
been able to do the work and complete a lasting repair with a guarantee at the costs they 
provided, and at which West Bay had cash settled. It said it wasnt sure why it should 
increase this as it had provided indemnity under the policy within the terms and conditions.
West Bay said the terms and conditions required Mr M to maintain his property and keep it in 
a good state of repair. it didnt think it was unreasonable to ask Mr M to sign a disclaimer if 
its contractor completed the work, regardless of him agreeing to add a damp proof course.
West Bay said if Mr Ms basement had not had pre-existing damp, things would have run 
more smoothly with its contractor being able to complete the work. He wouldnt have had 
reason to obtain his own quote or store items in his dining room longer than necessary. He 
would have had to store his items, in any event, until he actually had the damp proof course 
work done. 
West Bay agreed there were delays and poor communication, but it believed some of this 
was exacerbated by Mr Ms lack of cooperation. It thought it had been fair with the 
settlement of his claim and compensation on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms photographs suggest shelving was in situ at the time of the incident. I appreciate     
Mr M says the shelving was damaged and it couldnt be reused. However, West Bay doesnt 
appear to have had the opportunity to review the shelving prior to Mr M disposing of it. This 
means it wasnt able to validate Mr Ms loss or determine whether or not the shelving was 
salvageable. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest that West Bay gave Mr M 
permission to get rid of the shelving, which means he doesnt appear to have complied with 
the policys terms and conditions. So, Im not persuade that West Bay should cover the cost 
of the shelving.
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy that West Bay has refused to cover the cost of his sound 
system. However, Id already considered most of Mr Ms points about this in my provisional 
decision. I dont think anyone has suggested that Mr Ms claim is fraudulent. But it wouldnt 
be fair for me to tell West Bay to cover a loss that he hasnt evidenced.
I understand that Mr M is concerned that it might affect his future insurance if West Bay 
doesnt attempt to recover its costs from his neighbours insurer. However, whether or not it 
does wont change the information on Mr Ms claims history.
I acknowledge West Bays comments about the condition of Mr Ms property prior to the 
claim. However, theres insufficient evidence for me to conclude that it would still have been 
necessary for Mr M to have signed a disclaimer even after the damp proof course work had 
been completed. In any event, I dont think this reasoning was clearly communicated to      
Mr M, who says he never received a copy of the disclaimer form. 
The terms of the policy say the payment West Bay will make will not be more than the 
amount we would have paid our approved supplier if we can offer a repair or replacement 
through a supplier. 
As it appears to have been West Bays choice to offer a cash settlement, I dont think its fair 
for West Bay to limit this to what its costs would have been if it had used its own supplier.I appreciate that repairs might have been completed sooner if Mr Ms property hadnt 
required a damp proof course. I also acknowledge that Mr Ms contents needed to remain in 
storage whilst the damp proof course was being completed. However, Ive explained why I 
think West Bay is responsible for delaying the completion of the works. It follows that Mr M 
was left without storage for longer as a result. I think a total of £750 is a reasonable amount 
for West Bay to pay Mr M for the distress and inconvenience it is responsible for causing 
him. 
Having carefully considered the comments and information from both parties, Im not 
persuaded to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
West Bay should:
Pay Mr M an additional £900 for building repairs.
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* calculated from 30 December 2022 
to the date the settlement is paid.
Pay Mr M an additional £350 for distress and inconvenience.
*If West Bay considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman