DRN-1589068
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) have mishandled his cash 
deposit and have applied unfair charges to his bank account.
What happened
Mr L holds an account with Natwest. He deposited £500 in cash at Natwests Customer 
Deposit Machine (CDM) on 12 June 2019. Once he thought that the payment had cleared 
on his mobile banking app, he then made a payment from his account. 
Mr L received two text messages the following day. The first stated that he had been 
charged for using his unarranged overdraft facility, but the second showed that his account 
balance was in credit. Mr L complained to Natwest who explained that his cash deposit had 
been made past the cut-off point for it to be applied to his account for statement purposes on 
the same day. They said that the text message telling him to act now to avoid an unarranged 
overdraft charge was correctly sent, and that no banking error had occurred. But they agreed 
to waive the unarranged overdraft charge in any event as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr L remained unhappy at this resolution. He said he was not warned that there were 
insufficient funds in his account, and he was not satisfied with Natwests handling of the 
matter. As a result, he said he wanted a total of £150 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Mr L ought to have been 
aware that his deposit would only be available to use the following day given that it was paid 
in past the cut-off point, and she didnt think there was any banking error. The investigator 
noted that it may have been confusing to Mr L that his mobile app factored in the payment 
into his overall balance, but considered that there had been no financial loss given that 
Natwest had already waived the overdraft charge. So she didnt think any further 
compensation was payable. 
Mr L disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls account state that any cash deposits paid in using 
Natwests quick deposit facilities (which the CDM is considered to be) will be ready to use 
on the same business day if the deposit is made before 15:30. If it is made after this point, 
Natwests terms and conditions state that the funds will be available to use the following 
business day. Natwest has also said that there is a notice on the CDM itself reiterating this 
cut-off point for funds being paid in. I can see from Mr Ls statements that he made a deposit of £500 at 16:10 through the CDM 
on 12 June 2019 at his local branch. Given that this was past the cut-off point of 15:30 as set 
out in Natwests account terms and conditions (and as was also signposted on the machine 
used by Mr L) I think he ought reasonably to have known that the cash he deposited would 
not be available to use or draw from until the following day. 
Natwest have explained that a cash deposit made after 15:30 will show as available funds 
following the deposit, but that the transaction would not be processed or applied to Mr Ls 
account for statement purposes until the following day. So when he made a payment on the 
same day, the £500 would not have been available funds in which he could draw from, 
meaning that the account temporarily went overdrawn until the deposit was eventually 
processed on 13 June 2019. This means that the text message he received telling him to 
take action to avoid an unarranged overdraft charge was correct, as the funds that were 
showing in his account had yet to be processed. 
As such, Im not persuaded there has been a banking error here. But even if there was, 
Natwest have agreed to waive the unarranged overdraft charge. So there has been no 
financial loss in any event, and I think this is a fair resolution in these circumstances given 
that Natwest were within their rights to apply the charge, but have nonetheless given Mr L 
the benefit of the doubt. And Im not persuaded that any further compensation is warranted 
in these circumstances. 
Finally, I appreciate that Mr L has previously received warnings on his online banking when 
there are insufficient funds available to make a payment, and that no such warning was 
given when he made a payment on 12 June 2019. But it is the account holders responsibility 
to ensure they have sufficient funds to cover any payment orders made. And for the reasons 
outlined previously, I think Mr L ought reasonably to have known that the money he 
deposited would not have been available to draw from until the following day.  
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman