DRN-4083546
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by AJH Financial Services Limited 
(AJH) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr P information about his entitlement 
under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) illustration. 
The CETV stated that Mr P had 27 years and 5 months of pensionable service in the DB 
scheme and that the total transfer value of his benefits was £421,768.76.
Also in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr P wasnt sure what to do about his pension so he contacted AJH having been referred by 
a work colleague. An initial meeting was arranged between AJH and Mr P and his wife Mrs P 
for 8 November 2017. A fact-find was completed to gather information about Mr Ps 
circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr P was aged 45, his wife was aged 40 and they 
had two dependent children aged 13 and 15. It also noted that Mr P earned £45,000 per 
year and his wife earned £36,000. Their home was documented as being valued at 
£145,000 with a repayment mortgage of £72,000 with an outstanding term of 11 years. In 
addition Mr P had two personal loans, one for £13,000 which was due to be repaid by May 
2020 and one for £16,500 which was due to be repaid by November 2022. Mr and Mrs P 
had joint savings of £1,000 and Mrs P had a cash ISA worth £300 and a Sharesave account 
containing £11,000. It was further noted Mr P and his employer were contributing 16% of his 
salary per month to his employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme and that 
Mrs P had a DC scheme with her current employer with a £40,000 fund value and one with 
her former employer worth £30,000.
AJH also documented that Mr P was hoping to retire at age 60 but thought he would 
probably have to work until he was aged 65. AJH noted that Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) 
was lowest medium or 4 on a scale of 1 to 10. Mr Ps objectives for wanting to transfer his 
DB benefits were documented on the fact-find and the other documents completed at the 
initial meeting. These were that he had lost faith and trust in his employer and its pension 
schemes, that he had concerns about joining the PPF and that he wanted control and 
flexibility over his pension, its death benefits and his pension commencement lump sum. 
On 16 November 2017, AJH sent Mr P a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). Mr P signed 
the transfer and application forms on 5 December 2017. On 11 January 2018, AJH sent 
Mr P its suitability report in which it recommended he transfer his BSPS DB pension benefits 
to a personal pension plan with a provider I shall call R. AJH said Mr P would benefit from 
being able to access his benefits early without having to worry about early penalty factors, 
would be able to access up to 25% of his fund as tax-free cash (TFC), would be able to 
withdraw an unrestricted amount of money at any one time and his beneficiaries could enjoy 
tax-free death benefits should he pass away before the age of 75. 
In March 2018, £421,768.76 was transferred from Mr Ps BSPS DB scheme to his new 
pension. 
 
In May 2022, Mr P, through his representative, complained to AJH about the advice he 
received, believing it may have been unsuitable for him and that he had suffered a financial 
loss as a result. Mr P said he should have been advised to join the BSPS2. AJH looked into 
Mr Ps complaint but said it had acted in his best interests and provided him with suitable 
advice.
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to AJH, Mr P complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint for him and 
recommended that it was upheld as he didnt think it was in Mr Ps best interests to transfer 
his guaranteed benefits to a personal pension plan. 
Our Investigator said he didnt think here was any reasonable prospect of Mr P improving on 
his guaranteed scheme benefits based on investing in line with his ATR. So he didnt think 
that the transfer was a financially viable one. Nor did he think the alternative death benefits 
available through the personal pension were worth Mr P giving up the guarantees associated 
with his DB scheme for. And our Investigator thought that Mr Ps other objectives of early 
retirement and flexibility could have been met through utilising the benefits available through 
either the BSPS2 or the PPF together with his new DC scheme.
Our Investigator thought that AJH should have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2 so he 
recommended that AJH should calculate whether Mr P had suffered a loss as a result of its 
advice to transfer. The Investigator also recommended that AJH should pay Mr P £300 to 
address the distress and inconvenience caused by the receipt of its unsuitable advice.
In June 2023, AJH contacted our Investigator to advise that it had undertaken a redress 
calculation using the regulators BSPS-specific redress calculator to establish if Mr P had 
suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice. AJH said it had completed the calculation 
and this showed Mr P hadn't suffered a loss. 
Mr P advised our Investigator that he still wanted his complaint referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
In August 2023, AJH informed our Investigator that, in the interests of bringing the matter to 
a close, it accepted his findings.In October 2023, our Investigator asked AJH, as it had previously carried out a loss 
assessment using the BSPS-specific calculator, whether it would carry out the calculation 
again as the previous one had now expired. AJH said that it would do so. 
Mr P told our Investigator that he felt the £300 he had recommended AJH should pay him for 
the distress and inconvenience hed been caused was inadequate given the amount of 
trouble and upset he had suffered. He explained that hed been diagnosed with high blood 
pressure during the course of his complaint which required medication and regular checks 
which he attributed to being triggered by the unsuitable advice AJH had given him. 
AJH ran the BSPS-specific redress calculator again which again showed that Mr P had 
suffered no loss. Our Investigator told Mr P that he had checked the calculation and that it 
had, in his view, been carried out correctly. He said that there was no shortfall in his pension 
and that he was on track to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Our 
Investigator said that AJH had agreed to pay Mr P £300 for any distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused. 
Mr P replied to say he would provide medical evidence by 6 December 2023 to show he was 
suffering with high blood pressure. 
As no evidence has been received and as it has not been possible to resolve this complaint 
informally it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have set out above, AJH informed us in August 2023 that it was willing to accept our 
Investigators findings in an attempt to bring the matter to a close. As the suitability of the 
advice is no longer in dispute, Ill focus my decision on the redress methodology. 
In accepting our Investigators findings, AJH has acknowledged that it must compensate 
Mr P for any distress and inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused him by paying him 
£300. Ive noted the comments made by Mr Ps representative that Mr P has recently been 
diagnosed with high blood pressure and that he attributes this to the stress caused to him by 
AJHs unsuitable advice. Mr P has asked that the amount of compensation he is awarded is 
increased. 
Whilst Im sorry to hear about Mr Ps recent diagnosis, Ive seen no evidence that it is 
directly attributable to any stress associated with the advice he received from AJH. I would 
need to see some evidence that specifically linked his medical diagnosis to any stress AJH 
caused him if I were to consider increasing the amount of compensation he should be 
awarded for the trouble and upset hes caused. Without having sight of such evidence 
however, it would not be reasonable of me to do that. Ive thought carefully about the amount 
of compensation I am awarding Mr P here and Im satisfied that it is in line both with the 
Financial Ombudsman Services approach to such awards in general and with awards we 
have made in similar complaints. So Im not awarding any more than the £300 
recommended by the Investigator.  
Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr P as no agreement could be 
reached.The aim is to put Mr P back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. AJH carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by AJH which are personal to Mr P. These 
include Mr Ps personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ps case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr P has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
AJH has still offered to pay £300 as recommended by our Investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Overall, I think the calculation carried out by AJH is appropriate in the circumstances and no 
redress for financial losses is due to Mr P. I think AJHs offer to pay Mr P £300 for the 
distress and worry he experienced as a result of realising he was unsuitably advised to move 
his DB scheme and that he could have suffered a financial loss as a consequence, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also thought about compensation awards that Ive 
made in complaints with similar circumstances and Im satisfied that this award is in line with 
those and with the Financial Ombudsman Services approach to compensation in general. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AJH Financial Services Ltd to 
pay Mr P compensation of £300 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman