DRN-3680800
The complaint
Ms N complains that her mortgage lender Lloyds Bank PLC repossessed her property and 
disposed of her personal possessions without telling her.
What happened
Ms N had a mortgage with Lloyds. She bought the property and took the mortgage out in 
2002. But in recent years she hasnt been living there  she says that she has had difficulties 
with the neighbours and local community and also has had to support family elsewhere, so 
she moved out in 2018. It was not rented out, but was left unoccupied after Ms N left. From 
the start of the coronavirus pandemic she says she didnt feel safe to return home, so she 
didnt visit the property at all in 2020 or 2021.
Ms N says that her mortgage was being paid by state benefits. But following a change to her 
benefits that was no longer the case  though she didnt realise it at the time. The result was 
that no further payments were made. Ms N wasnt making the payments because she 
thought they were being covered by her benefits, and so when the benefits stopped no 
payment was made at all. Around the same time the mortgage term ended. This was an 
interest only mortgage, and Ms N didnt repay the capital at the end of the term. 
As a result of neither the capital nor the monthly interest being repaid, Lloyds repeatedly 
tried to contact Ms N, without success. It didnt know she wasnt living at the property, and so 
it wrote to and tried to contact her there. When it didnt have any contact with her, and still no 
payments were made, Lloyds sent out agents to visit the property, who reported it had been 
abandoned. So Lloyds began repossession proceedings.
The property was repossessed in late 2019 and Lloyds appointed agents to manage it. The 
agents secured the property and it was then marketed for sale and sold in July 2020.
Ms N discovered what had happened over a year later, in November 2021. She complained 
to Lloyds. Although she is unhappy about the repossession, her principal complaint is that 
Lloyds disposed of all her personal possessions which were in the property  some of which 
she says were intrinsically valuable, and some of which had sentimental value.
Ms N said the property wasnt abandoned. Although she wasnt currently living in it, it was 
furnished and had her personal effects, family photographs and so on in it  so Lloyds agent 
couldnt fairly have concluded it was abandoned. She said Lloyds could have traced her if it 
had tried to do so  not least because contact details for the family member she was staying 
with were in the property. Ms N said that her personal possessions were worth around 
£40,000 - £50,000 (some belonging to her and some to her daughter) and represented her 
life and family history. Many of them had sentimental value as well. Ms N provided a list of 
what she believed was in the property.  
Lloyds said it had little choice but to repossess since the property had been abandoned and 
the mortgage wasnt being paid. Lloyds said it hadnt disposed of Ms Ns possessions. It had 
retained them in the property for Ms N to collect if she had got in contact before the sale. As 
she hadnt done so, they remained in the property when the sale completed and passed into 
the possession of the new owner as part of the sale. Its not known what the new owner did 
with them then. But once Ms N had contacted it to complain, it knew where she was and was 
able to release the proceeds of sale once the mortgage had been repaid to her. It also 
offered to pay 8% interest on the sale proceeds  but only from the date Ms N first got back 
in contact, not from date of sale. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. So Ms N asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an interest only mortgage, and the term ended in April 2018. In May 2018, Ms N 
complained that Lloyds wouldnt offer her a term extension, and that she believed a payment 
protection insurance policy should have been in place. Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint, 
and said it needed to talk to her to discuss her plans for repayment now the term had ended.
At this time, Ms N was in receipt of benefits which were contributing to the mortgage. 
Although the benefit payments were not enough to cover the monthly interest, Ms N was not 
in arrears because of overpayment credits shes built up in the past. But this was coming to 
an end.
The last benefits payment made to Ms Ns mortgage was in May 2018. As no payment was 
being made, and Ms N hadnt contacted it to discuss repayment of the capital following the 
end of the term, Lloyds then tried to contact her, without success. 
In August 2018, Lloyds sent an agent to visit the property. The agent reported that Ms N was 
not in the property. The blinds were down and there was a solid front door, so the agent 
could not see if the property was occupied or whether there were signs that it wasnt, such 
as empty rooms or a build-up of mail. But the garden was overgrown, and the agent reported 
speaking to the neighbours, who said Ms N hadnt been seen at the property for at least a 
year.
Lloyds wrote to Ms N  at the property address  in December 2018 saying it intended to 
take legal action unless payments were resumed. 
Lloyds took possession proceedings, and the court granted a possession order in May 2019. 
Before enforcing the order, Lloyds made further visits to the property. In September 2019, 
another agent noted that there was a build up of cobwebs around the front door, suggesting 
it hadnt been used in a while and the garden was overgrown. The agent took a photograph 
(which Ive seen) showing a large shrub overgrowing the front room window. There was no 
one at the property. 
The property was repossessed in November 2019. Ive seen the report completed by the 
eviction agents, which includes extensive photographs of the property. These show Ms Ns 
personal possessions in place.
The property was then marketed for sale. Ive also seen the marketing photographs 
prepared by the estate agent. These do not show Ms Ns personal possessions.
Lloyds says this is because the possessions were moved. This was to clear parts of the 
property for photographs. But while the possessions were moved within the property, they 
were not removed from it. It does not clear properties and where possessions are left in repossessed properties, the property is marketed as seen.
Ive considered all the evidence, and I accept what Lloyds says here. I say that because 
theres also testimony from the eviction agent confirming the property wasnt cleared. And 
theres a note in Lloyds internal records, dated 24 June 2020, which reads:
[Estate] agents called and advised that the buyers are ready to exchange but will not 
do so until it has been cleared. I advised properties are sold as seen and they would 
need to proceed as is. We do not complete works or clearances. She stated she 
would make them aware and come back to us.
There is no further entry, until the sale completed on 20 July 2020. 
I think this is evidence which shows that Ms Ns possessions were still in the property in 
June 2020, and that they were left there until the sale completed. While the estate agents 
marketing photographs dont show them, that doesnt mean they werent there  the 
photographs dont show the whole property, so thats not inconsistent with Lloyds evidence 
that they were moved to facilitate the photographs but not taken out of the property.
Im satisfied the evidence shows Ms Ns belongings were left in the property until the sale 
completed and were included in the sale, when they would have been taken into the 
possession of the buyers. I dont know what the buyers did with them thereafter.
Im therefore satisfied that Lloyds did not remove Ms Ns possessions from the property. But 
it did dispose of them in the sense that it included them in the sale and left them in the 
property for the buyer to either keep or remove. 
In considering whether this was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, there are a 
number of factors I have to take into account. These include the mortgage terms and 
conditions, which say:
If we are entitled to exercise the power of sale under condition 6.4, we may:
(a) Take possession of the property

The following terms apply if we take possession of the property:
(a) We may remove, store or sell any goods or animals which you have not removed 
from the property. We will do this as your agent and at your expense and will not 
be liable for any damage caused unless we fail to take reasonable care.
Under the terms and conditions, therefore, Lloyds was entitled to remove, store or sell any 
goods which were left in the property after repossession.
In addition to the terms and conditions, there is the wider legal position. Although it was 
entitled under the mortgage agreement to take possession of the property, in respect of 
Ms Ns personal possessions Lloyds became whats known in law as an involuntary bailee 
 that is, someone who comes into possession of items belonging to another without their 
agreement. And the law says that an involuntary bailee must do what is right and reasonable 
with those goods.
Ive taken the law into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.Ms N says she didnt know that her benefits payments had stopped and were no longer 
paying the mortgage. As that happened in 2018, it may be connected with the change of 
support for mortgage interest from a benefit to a loan, needing a re-application. But if Ms N 
was unaware of this, it suggests she was also not keeping in touch with the benefits agency 
as well as Lloyds. The change to a loan and the need to re-apply was widely publicised at 
the time. If Ms N was reliant on benefits to pay her mortgage, I think its reasonable to say 
that she ought to have kept in touch with the benefits agency and made sure payment was 
being made. 
Lloyds was in a difficult position here. Even if Ms N wasnt aware that the benefits agency 
had stopped paying her mortgage, she clearly knew from her complaint in 2018 (and contact 
with Lloyds before that) that the term of her mortgage had come to an end and she hadnt 
repaid the capital, yet shed made no attempt to get in contact with Lloyds after May 2018 to 
discuss the position with it. Nor had she made any attempt to repay the capital.
Lloyds had no means of contacting Ms N. She wasnt living at the property, she hadnt 
provided a new address, and both of the phone numbers Lloyds had on file for her didnt 
work. It had visited the property more than once, and written to her there  the only address 
it had for her  many times, always since 2018 without success. 
Ms N says she didnt consider that she had abandoned the property. In the sense that she 
intended to return to it one day, that might well be true. But the reality was, in my view, that 
she had abandoned it. She had moved away, left no forwarding address, had not visited it in 
over a year and left it unoccupied, and had stopped all contact with her mortgage lender. No 
payments were being made. I dont think the fact that she had left her belongings behind 
meant it was unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude the property was abandoned  since they 
might have been abandoned too. 
The mortgage was not being paid. Lloyds had no contact from, and no means of getting in 
contact with, Ms N. Its agents reported that the property had been abandoned and it had no 
way of knowing if she ever intended to return. In those circumstances, I think Lloyds was left 
with no alternative but to repossess the property and that it acted reasonably in doing so.
When it did take possession, it found that Ms Ns personal effects were still in the property. It 
had no means of contacting her to ask her to remove them. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Lloyds to go through all her belongings following repossession, check every 
document and contact everyone whose address or phone number she might have recorded 
to try to find her. 
Ms Ns belongings remained there until the sale completed in July 2020  by which time Ms 
N had been away from the property for at least two years.
If Ms Ns personal effects were of such value and importance to her, I find it difficult to 
believe she would have left them in the property, unattended and unvisited, for over two 
years. She made no attempt to check the property was still safe and secure  if she had 
visited, she would have seen the many letters from Lloyds  or to check that it hadnt been 
broken into or vandalised, or that her personal effects were still there. 
Ive seen the many discussions Lloyds had with Ms N about the approaching end of the term 
in the years leading up to 2018. Ms N therefore knew that she should have paid off the 
capital balance in 2018, she knew she hadnt done so, she knew she wasnt making any 
other payments, she knew she had no contact with Lloyds, and she knew she had left the 
property unattended for two years. In those circumstances, I think she ought reasonably to 
have known that it was likely Lloyds would take some form of action such as repossession. I think its fair to say that, in those circumstances, if Ms Ns property and personal effects 
were of such value and importance to her, she was reckless in abandoning them for three 
years  knowing that her mortgage was out of term and without checking that the interest 
was still being paid.
Once Lloyds repossessed and found that Ms Ns personal effects were still in the property, it 
left them there for a further nine months before the sale completed  although it had no 
means of contacting Ms N to retrieve them, she knew they were there. And this was a 
substantial time in which she could have visited, including five months before lockdown 
restrictions were put in place. 
Had Lloyds removed Ms Ns effects to storage, there would have been a substantial cost in 
clearing the property, and ongoing storage costs. Lloyds had no way of knowing when Ms N 
would get back in touch with it, if she ever would  and therefore removing her belongings 
and storing them would involve it in potentially indefinite expense. 
That expense could have been recovered from Ms N, by being deducted from the surplus 
funds paid to her. But again, it didnt know how long storage would be needed for. And 
taking this option would have reduced the equity to be paid out to Ms N if she ever did get 
back in touch.
Lloyds could also have disposed of Ms Ns belongings. But that would involve costs of 
removal and disposal. Or it could have delayed a sale of the property until such time as Ms 
N returned to claim her belongings. But I dont think that would have been a reasonable thing 
to expect  as I say, it had no way of knowing at that time when or if she would ever get back 
in contact again. And its not reasonable to expect Lloyds to wait indefinitely before selling 
the property in case she did. 
Delaying a sale would also risk reducing the property value as the longer it was unused and 
unoccupied, the more it was at risk of vandalism, burglary or merely falling into disrepair. So 
this option would likely also have reduced any equity paid to Ms N, as well as delaying 
Lloyds ability to recover the debt.
The option Lloyds chose was to sell Ms Ns belongings. They were left in the property, and 
included in the sale. Therefore, once Ms N got back in touch with Lloyds, it paid her the 
amount it had received (after deducting the mortgage balance and costs) for selling not just 
the property but the items contained in it.
Ms N doesnt accept that shes received fair value for her possessions. She thinks they were 
worth at least £40,000  on top of any sentimental value. But shes not provided any 
evidence of the value of the items, such as receipts or valuations. Ive looked carefully at the 
comprehensive photographs taken at the time of repossession. I accept its not easy to tell  
but Ive not seen any items which appear to be of particular value. And its also important to 
note that the value of the items is not what they cost Ms N to purchase when they were new, 
or what it would cost her to purchase new replacements now  its what that individual item, 
in its used or second-hand condition, was worth at that point. Taking all that into account, Im 
not persuaded that Ms N had personal possessions worth over £40,000 in the property. I 
accept that many would have had sentimental value, but thats not the same as material 
value. 
Ive said that the law says that as an involuntary bailee, Lloyds had to what was right and 
reasonable with Ms Ns belongings. The mortgage terms said that it could sell, remove or 
store her belongings if not removed from the property. 
Ive taken those things into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, alongside the factors Ive set out above. Im satisfied that Lloyds had no 
alternative but to repossess the property. And once it had done so, and discovered that it 
contained Ms Ns belongings and there was no way of contacting her to ask her to remove 
them, all the options it was faced with were difficult. I think leaving the items in the property 
for several months while the sale progressed  so that Ms N could collect them if she got 
back in contact  but then including them in the sale and accounting to her for the amount 
received was the least worst option available. All others would either have increased the 
costs passed on to Ms N, delayed (perhaps indefinitely) Lloyds ability to recover the debt, or 
both. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably.
So while I recognise this is a very unfortunate situation, and how upsetting it must be for 
Ms N, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman