DRN-3653370
The complaint
Mr G complains that Punjab National Bank (International) Limited (PNBI) hasnt closed his 
account despite him asking it to for a number of years. Mr G also says this left him open to 
unnecessary risk, given that there was a security breach which happened some years later.
Mr G also complains that PNBI filed the interest earned on his fixed deposit account 
incorrectly which led to him being charged too much tax.
What happened
Mr G opened a five-year fixed deposit account with PNBI in September 2012 which matured 
in September 2017. Mr G says that he asked for his account to be closed in June 2018. But 
in July 2018, he received a statement suggesting the account was still open with remaining 
funds. Mr G said he asked for the money to be transferred to him and the account to be 
closed again, however he received another statement in October 2018 indicating the same. 
Mr G said he asked for his account to be closed again and raised a complaint about matters 
so far but received no response about either. 
Mr G says he raised the matter with PNBI again in January 2019 and then in 
December 2019, alongside another issue. He complained that PNBI had filed the total 
interest he had earned on his fixed deposit account over the five-year term, in a single tax 
year ending April 2018  an amount of close to £12,600. Mr G says this resulted in him being 
charged more in tax, by around £2,750. Mr G said he asked for a breakdown of the yearly 
interest earned on his account so he could rectify matters, and he asked PNBI to correct its 
error. But following several requests, PNBI sent him a breakdown of interest earned from 
September to September each year, as opposed to interest earned in each tax year  from 
April to April, which Mr G was unhappy about.
Mr G also said he received a letter in December 2020 outlining that there had been a 
security breach within PNBI. He said that he wouldnt have been exposed to this risk if PNBI 
had closed his account when hed asked it to. Mr G ultimately complained about all of these 
issues. He also complained that PNBI had failed to call him back as it had promised on 
multiple occasions.
PNBI reviewed matters. It initially issued a final response letter in January 2021 where, in 
summary, it apologised it hadnt yet closed Mr Gs account and offered him £50 
compensation. In relation to the interest on the account, it thought it had reported accurate 
information to HMRC. It then issued another final response letter shortly afterwards where, in 
summary, it added that Mr Gs complaint wasnt initially acknowledged because of reduced 
staff working during the Covid-19 pandemic. But PNBI ultimately apologised again for the 
service Mr G received.
Mr G remained unhappy with PNBIs response and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She thought PNBI had apologised and offered appropriate compensation for the errors it 
made. And, she thought the interest had been filed correctly on the account. 
PNBI didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr G did, and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. He also pointed out that his account still hadnt been closed to date. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said, in summary, that I thought Mr G had been 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience because his account hadnt yet been 
closed. So, I thought PNBI should pay Mr G £150 compensation to recognise this, inclusive 
of the £50 it had already offered him. I also thought it should arrange to close the account 
and communicate with Mr G about where he would like the funds sent. 
With regards to the security breach, PNBI said this didnt affect its core banking systems and 
was limited to affecting an employees email account. So, overall, I wasnt persuaded that 
Mr G had suffered any loss as a result of the security breach.
In relation to the interest on the account, I wasnt persuaded that PNBI had made an error. I 
thought that the terms of the account, and the information on the HMRC website which Mr G 
had provided in support of his complaint, suggested that interest arises on the account and 
is taxed at maturity.
PNBI accepted the decision. Mr G disagreed with the decision and said this was mainly in 
relation to the findings on how interest was reported. In summary, and in addition to his 
previous points, he said the decision rejected the evidence that interest was applied to the 
account annually. In relation to whether the account was free to draw upon, Mr G thought it 
was wrong to suggest that access to the funds of the investment had any relevance to tax on 
the interest. He added that the account did have the option to withdraw the interest annually, 
but he chose to reinvest it instead.
Mr G also said HMRC had already confirmed that PNBI was wrong to apply the interest in 
one tax year, and it had also given him a partial tax refund, pending receipt of the 
information from PNBI about how interest was applied in each tax year. He also said PNBI 
still hadnt closed his account or paid the remaining funds to him, nor had it paid the 
compensation it promised him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. I've 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments that Mr G raised in response to the provisional decision.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date. And, to be clear, this decision only 
deals with the circumstances of this particular complaint against PNBI.
Interest on the account
Mr G has pointed towards HMRCs website, in support of his position that PNBI has made 
an error with how it has reported interest. Having considered this content very carefully, my 
interpretation differs from Mr Gs.The content of the webpage that Mr G has pointed towards outlines that interest arises when 
it is received or made available to the recipient. It further explains that interest has been 
made available if it is credited to an account on which the account holder is free to draw.
It then includes the following example to help illustrate how interest arises on an account. It 
states:
[Customer] entered into a five year fixed-term bond on 6 April 2017. The bond credits 
interest to [Customers] account annually on the 31 December. [Customer] can only gain 
access to both the annual interest and the principal in advance of 5 April 2022 if a penalty is 
paid for early access.
Since the terms and conditions of the bond allow [Customer] to draw on the funds, although 
with a penalty, the interest arises and is taxable each year as it is credited.
If the terms and conditions of the bond did not allow access until maturity, the interest would 
arise and be taxed at that point.
The example above highlights an account where interest is credited annually. It says that if 
the terms didnt allow access until maturity, then interest would arise and be taxed at 
maturity. So, Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions to see how this compares with 
the account Mr G held.
PNBI has provided this service with terms and conditions it says were applicable at the time 
Mr G opened the fixed deposit account. These terms say that interest is always paid at the 
time of maturity of the deposit. They also say: Generally premature withdrawal is not 
allowed. In exceptional circumstances if allowed it is subject to penalty 
These terms outline that premature withdrawal is usually not allowed. And, they suggest that 
PNBI has a say in whether a customer is able to access the funds in the account 
prematurely in the case of exceptional circumstances. Considering the information on 
HMRCs website, Im persuaded that this means Mr G wasnt free to draw on the funds in 
the account. Considering these terms in line with the example above, it would appear that 
interest therefore arises on the account and is taxed at maturity. 
Mr G says interest was available at the end of each year and there was also an option to 
withdraw the interest annually, but he chose to reinvest it instead. But Im not persuaded this 
makes a material difference here. I say this because Mr G says he chose to reinvest the 
interest annually when he opened the account. So, it remains that the terms of Mr Gs 
account generally didnt allow him to access the funds until maturity. So, considering both 
the HMRC example, and the terms of the account, Im not persuaded that PNBI has made 
an error in the way it reported Mr Gs interest earned to HMRC.
 
I note Mr G says he has queried matters directly with HMRC. He says it has agreed with his 
position and provided him with a partial tax refund, pending receipt of the information from 
PNBI about how interest was applied in each tax year. However, Ive not been provided with 
evidence to show what query was put to HMRC and what its response and reasoning was. 
So, in the absence of this, I must decide the complaint on the evidence which is available. 
And on balance, having considered all the submissions before me, Im not persuaded that 
PNBI has made an error here.
Its unfortunate that PNBI initially provided Mr G with a breakdown of interest earned from 
September to September when he asked for the interest breakdown in each tax year. I think 
PNBI should provide Mr G with the information hes requested if it hasnt already. And, if 
Mr G remains of the opinion that PNBI has made an error and thinks a further tax rebate is due, then he can use the information Ive directed PNBI to provide, to discuss matters further 
with HMRC.
Account closure
PNBI has told this service that Mr G had both a fixed deposit account and a linked savings 
account. Its unclear from the information on file which account Mr G says is still open. In 
PNBIs submissions to this service, it has provided a copy of Mr Gs request to close his 
fixed deposit account, which it says it received and actioned in 2018. It says that the only 
account that therefore remains open is Mr Gs linked savings account. PNBI has also 
provided follow-up correspondence later in 2020 where it discusses Mr Gs savings account 
which remains open and how Mr G could go about closing it. So, on balance, Im persuaded 
that the account that remains open is Mr Gs linked savings account. 
Mr G says he first asked PNBI to close his account in June 2018. This is around the time 
PNBI says it received Mr Gs request to close his fixed deposit account. And, its sent us a 
copy of this request which I can see was received around this time. So, based on the 
submissions before me, Im persuaded PNBI received Mr Gs request to close his fixed 
deposit account only in June 2018, which it says it acted upon. And, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest it received a request to close the savings account at this time too.
However, PNBI does accept it received requests to close Mr Gs savings account from 
January 2019, which is over three years ago. And, given that there is agreement from both 
parties that Mr G asked for his account to be closed at least three years ago, I think Mr G 
was caused some inconvenience here. 
PNBI has said it only received the requests for the account closure over the phone, and not 
in writing. It also said it didnt receive details of where it should send the remaining funds 
after the account had been closed, despite it sending Mr G an email requesting this in 
December 2020. I acknowledge that PNBI sent a follow-up email in December 2020 and it 
says it didnt receive any information from Mr G about where he would like the funds sent to. 
That being said, PNBI acknowledges that Mr G had already been asking for his account to 
be closed since around two years before by this point. So, overall, I think he was caused 
some inconvenience here. 
Mr G also says he was exposed to unnecessary risk because his account remained open, 
given that he was notified of a security breach in December 2020. However, PNBI has told 
this service that the breach didnt affect its core banking systems and was limited to affecting 
an employees email account. And Ive not been provided with anything to persuade me that 
Mr G has suffered any loss as a result of the security breach. So, Im not persuaded that 
Mr G has been caused any detriment here.
That being said, Im satisfied that Mr G was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
as a result of PNBI not arranging to close his account earlier than it did. I also think Mr G 
wouldve been caused inconvenience as a result of the overall customer service offered, 
including PNBI not returning several of his calls. I think PNBI should compensate Mr G for 
this. Having thought carefully about the circumstances, and the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience Mr G was caused, I think PNBI should pay Mr G a total £150  inclusive of 
the £50 offer of compensation it has already made him. 
I also think it should now arrange to close Mr Gs account and communicate with Mr G about 
where he would like the funds sent. And, I think it should provide Mr G with a clear 
breakdown of the interest earned in each of the tax years that the account was open, so he 
can query matters further with HMRC, should he wish to.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint and require Punjab National Bank 
(International) Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr G £150, inclusive of the £50 offer of compensation already made, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Arrange to close Mr Gs account and communicate with him about where the funds 
should be sent.
Provide Mr G with a clear breakdown of the interest earned in each of the tax years 
that the account was open, in line with his request.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman