DRN-3181985
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays and problems receiving a response to his Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) from MBNA Limited.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr A has told us he raised a DSAR with MBNA back in January 2020 after it reduced 
the credit limit on his credit card. Mr A has told us he chased a response from MBNA 
but the information requested wasnt provided.
Mr A has explained that between February 2020 and November 2020 he suffered with 
mental health problems that were impacted by his financial situation and difficulties 
maintaining payments.
In November 2020 Mr A complained that MBNA hadnt complied with his DSAR. Despite 
responding in January 2021, MBNA didnt send Mr A the information he requested. Mr A 
complained again in May 2021 and MBNA apologised for the delay, offering him £75. The 
DSAR was completed in June 2021, 18 months after it was first raised.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought MBNA had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr A 
asked to appeal and explained he didnt thing the £75 MBNA paid him was a fair way to 
resolve his complaint. As Mr A asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief and setting out the background to this complaint because all 
parties broadly agree about the key events. Mr A has sent us a detailed timeline and I can 
see he raised a DSAR on at least three occasions during a period of financial difficulties. 
Mr A has also explained he was going through a difficult period in terms of his mental 
health and the lack of assistance from MBNA unreasonably affected him. Im pleased that 
despite a
delay of around 18 months, MBNA did comply with the DSAR. I need to decide how to 
fairly resolve Mr As complaint.
MBNA offered £75 in its May 2021 final response but Mr A says he doesnt feel that figure 
fairly reflect how the issues raised affected him. I agree with Mr A. Whilst we dont fine or 
punish businesses for making mistakes, I think its reasonable to note there is a standard 
requirement for businesses to deal with a DSAR within a specific timeframe. Mr A has 
explained he was trying to get information about his finances whilst experiencing financial 
difficulties and I think he shouldve been able to rely on MBNA to help while he was going 
through a difficult time. I also note MBNA failed to comply with the DSAR on more than 
one occasions which was clearly frustrating for Mr A.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint. I agree with 
Mr A that £75 isnt a fair reflection of how the issues raised and overall delays impacted 
him. As a result, I intend to increase the award from £75 to £175. In my view, that figure 
more fairly reflects what happened and how it affected Mr A.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mr A responded and said that in addition to his complaint 
about the DSAR he also thought MBNA had lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card. Mr A also said he didnt feel a fine of £175 was reasonable for the GDPR failures he 
experienced. 
MBNA responded and confirmed its willing to settle in line with the provisional decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr A said hes also complaining about MBNAs 
decision to approve his loan. Ive been back over all the complaint information, 
correspondence and comments Mr A has sent us in relation to this case. All the information 
relates to his complaint about MBNAs response to his DSAR and the length of time it took. 
The investigators findings and Mr As response only deal with the delays in dealing with the 
DSAR. 
Mr A is welcome to refer his complaint about irresponsible lending to us. But in this decision 
Im only dealing with Mr As complaint about the delays he experienced after making a 
DSAR. 
In his response, Mr A also said hed paid interest during the period MBNA took to respond to 
his DSAR. I can see thats the case, but the interest Mr A paid relates to his credit card 
balance and isnt contingent on MBNAs response to his DSAR. I havent seen anything that 
shows Mr A has been incorrectly charged credit card interest by MBNA. 
Mr A says £175 isnt a fair fine for MBNA to pay in relation to the delays he experienced and 
failure to respond to his complaint. Our service cant fine or punish a business. Our awards 
are consumer focused and we seek to recognise financial losses as well as the distress and 
inconvenience caused by a business error. So the £175 I awarded in the provisional 
decision is to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A by the delay in dealing 
with his DSARs and the service provided. 
Ive considered everything Mr A has told us when bringing his complaint and in response to 
the provisional decision. I still think the £175 I awarded in the provisional decision fairly 
reflects the impact of the delays and issues raised on Mr A, for the same reasons. As I 
havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision Im 
going to proceed and uphold Mr As complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MBNA Limited to pay Mr A a total of £175 (less any compensation already paid).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman