DRN-4177537
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to refund around £190,000 she says 
she lost to an individual (Mr K) as part of a scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been set out 
previously by the investigator, so I dont intend to repeat everything again here. Instead, I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Ms C met Mr K in a rehabilitation facility in 2017, where she struck up a friendship with 
him. Over the next three years, she withdrew cash, transferred money and bought things 
for Mr K when he asked for financial help, that she says amounted to around £190,000. 
Ms C says she always understood that this money would be paid back by Mr K when he 
could afford it. 
When Ms C reported the matter to the police, she said that they considered her dispute 
with Mr K to be a civil matter and didnt press charges against him. I note that Mr K has 
also repaid around £5,000 of the money Ms C lent to him. So, while I dont doubt Ms Cs 
feeling that shes been scammed given he now wont pay the rest back, there simply isnt 
enough persuasive evidence to suggest that Mr K has acted fraudulently or set out with 
the intention to deceive her. It follows that I dont think Ms C can be said to have fallen 
victim to a scam here. Rather, the situation seems more akin to a civil dispute between 
two friends. 
Even if it could be considered a scam  which for the avoidance of doubt, I dont 
consider it is  Im not persuaded that Ms Cs pattern of spending was out of character 
such that her payments should have been prevented by Lloyds pending further enquiry. 
She had previously made multiple payments to other parties in the same day, and it also 
wasnt unusual for her to make cash withdrawals, or to pay other merchants using her 
card. Mr K also became established as a regular payee on the account. So, I dont think 
there wouldve been anything particularly unusual about the payments she made to 
Mr K, or that would have indicated she was likely being scammed. Lloyds was also not 
aware of any of Ms Cs vulnerabilities at the point she was making the payments either, 
and so wouldnt have been expected to take this into account either. 
Given there is not enough evidence to suggest that Ms Cs dispute against Mr K 
amounts to fraud, I dont think Lloyds were under any obligation to seek to recover any of 
the money she transferred to Mr K. Lloyds were also under no obligation to refund the 
faster payments Ms C made under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code 
either (for those made on or after 28 May 2019) as the Code expressly excludes civil 
disputes. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms C, and Im sorry to hear about the 
situation she has found herself in. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman