DRN-3989807
The complaint
Ms S complains about the advice given by The Informed Partnership Limited, trading as 
Informed Financial Planning, (TIPL) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for 
her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Ms S is being assisted in bringing her complaint by a representative but for ease of reading 
this decision Ill largely refer to comments as being made by Ms S.
What happened
Ms S first spoke to TIPL on 9 January 2018 to discuss her pension planning options. Ms S 
had already received a transfer quotation from her DB scheme, prior to this, which said the 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her benefits was £402,706.10.
TIPL completed a fact-find in a follow up meeting on 12 January 2018, to gather information 
about Ms S circumstances and objectives. It recorded that Ms S was 52 and not working, as 
she was acting as a carer for her mother. It was noted shed been made redundant from the 
business through which her DB scheme benefits were built up in 2016. Ms S was divorced 
and while she had a partner, they lived separately and werent considered financially 
dependent on one another. Ms S was also recorded as having no other dependents. Ms S 
owned her own home outright. She received benefits in the form of a carers allowance, 
which provided an annual income of approximately £3,260. Her expenditure was noted as 
being just over £920 per month. Ms S explained that she was receiving financial support 
from her brother, which had been ongoing while she was caring for their mother.
TIPL said Ms S objectives were to not return to work if possible and retire from age 55. It 
said she expected to need an income of £1,000 per month in retirement but didnt expect her 
needs to change or this amount to increase significantly. TIPL noted that Ms S was 
interested in also accessing tax free cash (TFC) to repay the financial help shed received 
from her brother, which she estimated to be approximately £25,000, help shed also received 
from her partner, although no definitive figure was recorded, to pay for some items for her 
home and to build up an emergency fund. It also recorded that Ms S felt itd be nice to leave 
something to her partner if she died. TIPLs notes did however refer to her objectives at 55 
as being vague.
TIPL also carried out an assessment of Ms S attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious. 
On 15 February 2018, TIPL advised Ms S to transfer her pension benefits away from her DB 
scheme and into a personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that a personal pension would provide flexibility allowing Ms S to 
retire at 55 and draw the income she wanted as well as allowing her to vary this if needed, 
was likely to give access to a greater TFC sum to meet her objectives and provided 
alternative death benefits.
TIPL recommended a specific pension provider and that Ms S invest in its managed fund. It 
was also recommended that Ms S take ongoing advice from TIPL on her pension, for an 
annual fee, saying Ms S had said she didnt have any knowledge of investments and would 
need its help.
I understand Ms S later changed financial advisers. Her new adviser reviewed the advice 
shed been given and highlighted some figures from the point TIPL provided advice that 
appeared to be incorrect  in particular around the benefits that Ms S wouldve been due 
under the DB scheme from age 55.
Ms S raised this with TIPL. TIPL acknowledged that some information it had used when 
analysing the transfer in relation to the rate at which Ms S DB scheme pension revalued 
was incorrect. So, it acknowledged that its analysis, which was quoted in the suitability 
report, around what benefits Ms S wouldve been due at age 55 from the DB scheme was 
incorrect. But it said that the correct figures would still not have provided the income and 
TFC that Ms S said shed need, so its advice would have remained the same.
Ms S subsequently complained to TIPL about the suitability of the advice shed been given. 
She said, because incorrect information had been used in the report, shed relied on 
factually inaccurate information when deciding whether to transfer. And she now felt that the 
advice was not suitable for her.
TIPL didnt agree that the advice was unsuitable. It said that Ms S would not have been able 
to meet her objectives without transferring. So, it still felt a transfer was appropriate. TIPL 
acknowledged though that its recommendation had included incorrect information, which it 
said shouldnt have been the case. To address this, it offered to refund 5% of the fee Ms S 
had paid for advice, amounting to £527.70, and pay her a further £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information, in full and final settlement of her 
complaint.
Ms S did not accept this offer and referred her complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and said TIPL should compensate Ms S for any loss the transfer had 
led to and pay her £300 for the inconvenience caused. She said she thought Ms S was 
always likely to receive benefits of a lower value as a result of transferring. And she didnt 
think Ms S had a need to transfer and thought TIPL hadnt done enough to consider 
alternative ways Ms S could have met her objectives. So, she didnt think a transfer was in 
Ms S best interests.
TIPL disagreed. It said Ms S had been clear that she wanted to retire at 55, which is why it 
hadnt considered alternatives such as deferring retirement. And it said this objective was 
only achievable by transferring and the Investigator had not correctly considered the 
importance of this to Ms S. TIPL also said Ms S was not looking to improve her benefits by 
transferring and it disagreed that she was worse off, saying its cashflow modelling indicated 
that while her pension benefits were different, Ms S could achieve her goals by transferring 
and was likely to be supported financially by the pension until her death. So, it argued that 
whether the benefits provided were lower than the DB scheme was irrelevant. And it didnt 
agree there had been any detriment to Ms S and still considered the advice it had given was 
suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TIPL has, at different times during our investigation, said that some of the things Ms S said 
when bringing her complaint to our service about why she thought the advice wasnt 
suitable, were not mentioned when she initially complained. So has argued that it hasnt 
been afforded the opportunity to address these arguments. Although it has gone on to 
address those arguments in its response to our Investigators opinion.
The complaint form and Ms S submissions were shared with TIPL when this complaint was 
established  as this is what led to these comments by TIPL. So, it was aware of these 
arguments and has had since that time to address them. And the time since is more than the 
eight weeks the regulator allows business to respond to a complaint. So, if it felt additional 
comments needed to be made in the form of a response to Ms S, I think TIPL has had 
adequate time to do so.
Also, as our Investigator previously explained to TIPL, Ms S complaint concerns whether the 
advice given to her was suitable. Our service can exercise its inquisitorial remit in 
considering a complaint. And when considering a complaint, my role is to consider all of the 
circumstances to decide a fair outcome. So, while the reason Ms S thought the advice was 
unsuitable might initially have been expressed to TIPL on the basis of it containing incorrect 
information  which TIPL has admitted  in considering this complaint it is within my remit to 
consider if there are other reasons that the advice was unsuitable. 
When considering this complaint Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) 
and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TIPL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TIPL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms S 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it is that Ms S would be better off in 
terms of the retirement income she would receive, by transferring. Because moving from a 
DB scheme to a personal pension exposed her pension to risk that she wasnt otherwise 
subject to. TIPL has argued that Ms S was not looking to improve on her retirement benefits. 
But TIPLs role wasnt simply to put in place what Ms S mightve thought she wanted. Its role 
was to look at what was in her best interests. And given a pensions primary purpose is to 
provide for the income needs of the holder in retirement, whether Ms S would be better off in 
retirement as a result of a transfer is, in my view, a relevant consideration when looking at 
what was in her best interests.
TIPL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) at the point of 
the advice. This included calculating how much Ms S pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield). For 
retiring at age 65, the report said the pension would need to grow by 10.11% per year to 
match the full pension the DB scheme wouldve provided or 9.45% to match the TFC and 
reduced pension the DB scheme wouldve provided at that time. For retiring at 55, the report 
said the critical yield to match the full pension Ms S could take at that age was 8.59% and for 
TFC and a reduced pension payable at 55, the critical yield was 5.62%.
But it has been acknowledged that the report completed at the point of the advice contained 
errors in terms of what benefits the DB scheme would provide and revaluation rates. TIPL 
re-ran the calculation in My 2021, when concerns about these errors were first raised, with 
the correct information input. As a result, the critical yields for retirement at 65 were now 
calculated to be 7.98% for taking a full pension and 7.51% for taking TFC and a reduced 
pension. For retiring at age 55, the critical yield to match the full pension the DB scheme 
wouldve provided was 18.21% and to provide equivalent TFC and a reduced pension, 
15.26%.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4% per year for full 12 years to retirement  which wouldve been the case for Ms S, 
who was 52 at the time of the advice, if retiring at age 65. The discount rate for 2 full years to 
retirement  which wouldve been applicable for retiring at 55  was 2.7%. Ive also kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms S 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Ms S 
giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here I think, whenever she retired, the 
information indicates Ms S was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. TIPL has said that its cashflow modelling, which it says is more sophisticated than using 
critical yields, shows that by transferring Ms S couldve taken the pension she believed shed 
require, £12,000 per year, from age 55 and this wouldve been sustainable throughout her 
retirement. It also says there wouldve been a residual fund remaining to pass on if Ms S 
passed away, well beyond her life expectancy.
Ive considered this information. But I note that the models assume investment growth of 5% 
per year. Based on the discount rates, regulators standard assumptions and Ms S cautious 
attitude to risk, Im not sure this is a reasonable assumption and achieving this rate of return 
consistently was not guaranteed. The models projections also required a flat level of 
inflation, always below the investment returns. Which likewise wasnt certain. 
Also, TIPLs argument is that these models show Ms S could take what she expected, so 
could accept the reduction in benefits a transfer would bring, not that shed be better off in 
retirement. So, taking everything into account, I still dont think from a financial viability 
perspective that a transfer was in Ms S best interests  as she was always likely to receive 
overall benefits of a lower value. 
TIPL has said it does not agree that a transfer is only suitable if benefits are improved on. 
And I agree that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
TIPL says Ms S didnt want to return to work and wanted to retire from age 55. It has said 
that our Investigator didnt give enough weight to the significance of this objective to Ms S, 
saying that she had stated when meeting with TIPL that shed worked from age 16 and had 
had enough of it, didnt want to go back to work and didnt want to wait to access her 
pension. TIPL also said that accessing TFC was important to Ms S.
I understand Ms S had been out of work since being made redundant in 2016 and I dont 
doubt she might have preferred not to return to work and instead retire. Indeed, I think most 
people, when asked, would like to retire early. But again, TIPLs role wasnt to achieve what 
Ms S might have liked, it was to advise her on what was in her best interests. Which, in my 
opinion, includes challenging objectives where appropriate. 
I also note, while Ms S likely wouldve preferred not to return to work, and may well have 
emphasised this, the notes TIPL took during the fact find also indicate she hadnt ruled out a 
return to work in the future, if she was no longer caring for her mother. As these notes 
mention she might return to work on a part time basis. TIPL has said the reason Ms S 
mightve considered this is uncertain. But that is the point really, there was uncertainty.
TIPLs notes refer to Ms S objectives at age 55 as being vague. And Ms S couldnt take 
benefits from her pension for at least another couple of years, in which time her 
circumstances couldve changed. 
The vagueness of the objectives recorded by TIPL also extended to the TFC that was 
required. It was estimated she owed her brother approximately £25,000 which she hoped to 
repay. And, if her income situation remained unchanged, this was likely to grow to 
approximately £40,000 by the time she did retire. There was also a mention of purchasing 
some new furniture, making a gift to her partner and building up an emergency fund. But the 
amounts required for these purposes dont appear to have been known. And indeed, the 
cash flow modelling in the suitability report seems to have been based on Ms S desired 
amount of TFC being £40,000  what she expected to owe her brother.So, although Ms S expected to require an income of approximately £1,000 per month, her 
needs werent fully clear at the time of the advice. And therefore, making an irreversible 
decision to transfer her pension and relinquish her guaranteed pension benefits wasnt in her 
best interests.
In any event though, I also dont think Ms S necessarily needed to transfer to meet her, 
albeit unconfirmed, objectives.
Ms S income, at the time of the advice, seems to have solely been a carers allowance of 
£3,260 per year. And the expectation was that shed receive ongoing financial support from 
her brother until age 55, increasing the amount shed owe to him to £40,000. This seems to 
have been accepted as being sufficient to meet her needs in that time. But I cant see there 
was any consideration or investigation into whether Ms S would qualify for any other state 
benefits to support her income. Which couldve resulted in a reduction in the amount she 
needed to repay to her brother at age 55 and her having a greater base income from that 
time. The fact find indicates that Ms S owned her own home but had no other significant 
assets. There is a passing reference to investments. But the notes are also clear that these 
belonged to her partner. In any event, I cant see that enough information was gathered 
about these to determine if they impacted her entitlement to further benefits. And I think that 
is relevant as any such additional benefits wouldve impacted what Ms S needed from her 
retirement provisions.
In addition, under the DB scheme, Ms S couldve taken benefits from age 55. TIPLs 
recommendation talked about there being a considerable reduction to the income provided 
by doing so and also one of the benefits of transferring was avoiding such a penalty. It is 
true, if Ms S drew her benefits at age 55 from the DB scheme, the amount she would receive 
would be subject to an actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect 
the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared 
with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve 
been less. But by taking benefits at age 55 Ms S wouldve been receiving her pension for ten 
years longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. And I dont think this was explained 
clearly enough in conjunction with Ms S being likely to receive benefits of a lower overall 
value than those shed have been guaranteed at age 55, as a result of transferring.
An illustration from the DB scheme trustees from November 2017 estimated Ms S would be 
entitled to a full pension of £9,698.88 per year or TFC of £53,835.11 and a reduced starting 
annual pension of £8,075.40 at age 55. And I understand the annual pension amounts 
wouldve continued to escalate while in payment. The analysis that TIPL ran in May 2021, 
after admitting its earlier analysis was flawed, produced similar estimates for what the DB 
scheme may provide from age 55  a full pension of £9,770.77 or TFC of £54,234 and a 
reduced starting pension of £8,135 per year.
TIPL has said that this wouldnt have been enough to meet Ms S retirement income needs 
of £12,000 per year, so its advice to transfer was still suitable. And on its own, the DB 
scheme would not do this. Its also true that any means tested benefits Ms S mightve been 
entitled to, which again I dont think TIPL did enough to explore, would potentially have been 
reduced by her taking a pension income. But again, this doesnt seem to have been explored 
in sufficient detail  which I think it shouldve been as I consider understanding alternatives 
to transferring is crucial given the starting point that a transfer is likely to be unsuitable. And I 
understand that carers allowance is not means tested in the same way as other benefits and 
isnt impacted by income from a private or occupational pension. 
If Ms S had continued to receive a carers allowance and the lowest of the starting figures for 
the annual pension, £8,075.40 had been received, this would still have meant she initially fell 
short of £12,000 per year. But the DB scheme wouldve escalated while in payment. And, during the fact find it was established that Ms S held another personal pension, which was 
estimated as being worth around £30,000. I understand she couldve accessed benefits from 
this pension from age 55 flexibly. Which couldve addressed the income shortfall.
There was obviously the possibility that Ms S mother may pass away, meaning the carers 
allowance she was receiving could cease. And this would mean a greater shortfall between 
the DB scheme income and £12,000, particularly in the early years of drawing benefits from 
the DB scheme. But Ms S couldve drawn further funds from the personal pension she held 
to meet this shortfall. And again, she mayve been entitled to other benefits. And she hadnt 
ruled out potentially taking on some part time work, and earning an income, in such a 
scenario.
The TFC that Ms S wouldve received at age 55 from the DB scheme also appears to have 
been sufficient to meet her expected needs. Ms S expected to want £40,000 to pay her 
brother back for the financial support he had provided  although again this amount was only 
approximately £25,000 at the time of the advice and the need for this to increase could have 
potentially been mitigated by exploring other income support available. The TFC the DB 
scheme was estimated to provide was significantly in excess of this, meaning Ms S would 
have additional funds available for other purposes. And while TIPL noted that Ms S was also 
considering purchasing new furniture, giving a gift to her partner and building up an 
emergency fund, how much was required for these purposes wasnt recorded at the time of 
the advice. And again, TIPLs notes record that these objectives were vague.
So overall, I dont think Ms S needed to transfer to meet her objectives  which anyway 
couldve been different by the time she was actually able to take benefits from her pension. 
As a result, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Ms S to make the irreversible 
decision to give up her guaranteed benefits.
Death benefits
TIPL said that Ms S thought it was unfair that the pension would not be passed on in the 
event of her death and she was drawn to the idea of leaving something for her partner.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Ms S. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Ms S might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Ms S about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think TIPL explored to what 
extent Ms S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for alternative 
death benefits.
It was also noted that Ms S and her partner were keen to express that they were not 
financially dependent on one another, that their finances were separate and that it wasnt 
anticipated that her partner would need to rely on Ms S pension benefits at any stage. So 
again, while leaving a legacy mightve appealed to Ms S, I dont think this was a need and 
certainly not one that outweighed her security in retirement.
The recommendation made reference to taking life insurance as an alternative having been 
discounted on the basis of cost. But the quote was based on the level of cover being that of 
the CETV of the benefits - essentially assuming that Ms S would pass away on day one 
following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask 
Ms S how much she would ideally like to leave to, and this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.  In any event though, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Ms S.
Suitability of investments
TIPL recommended that Ms S invest in the pension providers managed fund. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Ms S, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Ms S should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Ms S. But TIPL wasnt there 
to just transact what Ms S might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Ms S needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms S was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Ms S was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think alternative death benefits were a priority for 
Ms S. And I dont think her retirement objectives, which dont appear to have been confirmed 
and couldve changed, could only have been met by transferring. 
So, I think TIPL shouldve advised Ms S to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms S would've gone ahead anyway, against TIPL's 
advice. Again TIPL has said that Ms S was adamant she didnt want to return to work and 
that she was concerned by the restrictions of the DB scheme. So, Ive considered this 
carefully. But Im not persuaded that Ms S wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme, against TIPLs advice. 
Im satisfied that Ms S was an inexperienced investor. The fact find established that she 
understood that investments could rise and fall in value. But the suitability report stated that 
Ms S had no knowledge of investments and that she would need help managing the 
investments after any transfer. Ms S also had a cautious attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So, if TIPL had provided her with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best 
interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice. And Im not persuaded that that she 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. 
And if TIPL had explained that Ms S could meet her objectives without risking her 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Ms S 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think TIPL should compensate Ms S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that TIPL also pay Ms S £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Ms S has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable, which wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And TIPL has acknowledged previously that the service it provided was 
not to the standard it expected and that this was likely to have been upsetting for Ms S, 
when it made the earlier offer to resolve matters following errors being identified in the calculations carried out at the time of the advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award 
the Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms S, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms S would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
TIPL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I think if shed been advised to remain in the DB scheme it is likely Ms S wouldve 
taken benefit from the scheme at age 55. So, this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions in line with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms S acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TIPL should:
always calculate and offer Ms S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms S before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms S accepts TIPLs offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms S for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms S end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, TIPL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Ms Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms S within 90 days of TIPL 
receiving notification of Ms S acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess of 90 
days, that it takes TIPL to pay Ms S.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TIPL deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms S how much has been taken off. TIPL should give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, TIPL should pay Ms S £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to her 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Informed 
Partnership Limited, trading as Informed Financial Planning, to pay Ms S the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
The Informed Partnership Limited to pay Ms S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require The 
Informed Partnership Limited to pay Ms S any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
The Informed Partnership Limited pays Ms S the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms S.
If Ms S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Informed 
Partnership Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman