DRN-3547589
Complaint
Mrs L complains that Zopa Limited (trading as Zopa) unfairly charged her too much to 
settle a loan early in March 2021.
Background
Mrs L was provided with a loan for £10,000.00 in February 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £251.02. In March 2021, after having made 25 of the 60 
payments, Mrs L contacted Zopa to settle her loan. Zopa told Mrs L that she needed to pay 
£7,078.19 to settle her balance in full. Although unhappy with the settlement figure quoted, 
Mrs L repaid her loan and then complained to Zopa.
Zopa didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. It said that it correctly calculated Mrs Ls settlement 
figure using a formula based on the outstanding capital and the remaining loan term.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ls complaint and thought that it should be partially 
upheld. In her view, while the use of an amortisation schedule used wasnt unfair, the 
amount Mrs L was asked to pay to settle her loan was incorrectly calculated because it didnt 
include a proportionate refund of the borrower fee. Zopa disagreed with our investigator so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im partially upholding Mrs Ls complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Section 94 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a borrower to settle a regulated credit 
agreement  such as Mrs Ls agreement with Zopa - and discharge their indebtedness early. 
And where a consumer requests to settle a credit agreement early, like Mrs L requested to 
do here, the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regulations) set out 
how a lender should work out what the customer needs to pay in order to settle the amount 
outstanding.
Section 5 of the regulations allows a lender to calculate a settlement for (and valid until) a 
date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was made. And interest would be 
charged for this 28-day period. Furthermore, if the agreement in question has a term for 
longer than a year, like Mrs Ls five year agreement did, section 6 of the regulations allows 
the lender to defer the settlement date, for the purposes of calculating an interest rebate, by 
a further 30 days. 
Therefore, as Mrs Ls request was a request to settle an agreement which had an original 
term of longer than one year early, the regulations permitted Zopa to charge interest for a 
period of 58 days from the date of the settlement request. 
Its also important to note that all loans  irrespective of whether interest is added upfront or 
on a daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each instalment is made up 
of some of the interest and charges and some of the capital advanced. And this usually 
means that even though a monthly payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the 
amount borrowed - a much smaller proportion of this payment goes to repaying the capital in 
the early stages.
So many consumers in Mrs Ls position may believe that theyve paid off more of their loan 
than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments made, because theyre 
unaware of the way that their loan would be amortised and a larger proportion of the early 
payments were going towards the interest. And on top of this Mrs L faced around 58 days 
interest (because of the initial term of the loan) being added to an unexpectedly larger 
outstanding capital balance. 
Therefore, much like our investigator, while Mrs L may be unhappy with the amount shes 
been asked to pay, I dont think that there was a problem with the way that her loan was 
amortised or the way that her monthly loan payments were applied to her ongoing balance.
That said, I do think that Zopa hasnt treated the borrowing fee that it charged Mrs L for 
bringing about this loan correctly. As far as I can see, Mrs Ls agreement with Zopa required 
her to pay a borrowing fee of £420 as well as interest charges of £4,641.01 should her 
agreement run to term. This meant that Mrs Ls agreement had total interest, fees and 
charges of £5,061.01 and this is what the stated APR of 18.9% was based on.
Zopa says that while the borrower fee was included in the total cost of credit it isnt the same 
as loan interest as it is a one-off fee applied at the beginning to the agreement. And so Mrs L 
wasnt entitled to a rebate of any of this fee when settling her loan early. 
Ive thought about what Zopa has said and it seems to me that it is attempting to argue that 
the borrower fee was a one-off fee which Mrs L borrowed further funds to pay at the time. In 
other words, Zopas argument appears to suggest that the borrower fee was part of the 
amount lent  even though it was included in the total cost for credit and Mrs L needed to 
repay this in full in same way as she was required to pay all of the £10,000.00 she was 
initially lent.
However, this argument and approach overlooks section 9(4) of the CCA, which states:
(4)  For the purposes of this Act, an item entering into the total charge for credit shall 
not be treated as credit even though time is allowed for its payment.
So as the borrower fee formed part of the cost of the credit, it cant also have formed part of 
the advance of credit itself, even though Zopa may have allowed for this fee, with interest, to 
be repaid over the loan term. And as the borrower fee is a cost of the credit which is repaid 
over the term of the loan, rather than an advance of credit, I see no valid, or fair and 
reasonable basis for it not being included in Mrs Ls rebate of the total charge for credit.    
As this is the case and the regulations entitled Mrs L to a rebate of the total cost of the credit, 
upon early settlement of her loan, Im satisfied that the borrower fee should have been 
included in any rebate and calculation of the amount Mrs L had to pay when she notified 
Zopa she wanted to settle her loan in March 2021. And as Zopa didnt include the borrower 
fee in its calculations, it follows that Im partially upholding Mrs Ls complaint and that Zopa 
needs to put things right. Fai compensation  what Zopa needs to put things right for Mrs L
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that it would fair and reasonable for Zopa 
to put things right for Mrs L by putting her in the position she would be had the amount to 
settle her loan been calculated in a fair and reasonable way.
A. Zopa should work out the extra it asked Mrs L to pay when she settled her loan in 
March 2021. 
It should do this by working out what Mrs Ls settlement amount would have been 
had she received a refund of a proportion of the borrower fee thorough it correctly 
being included in the rebate of the total cost of the credit as a result of Mrs L settling 
her loan in March 2021. Zopa should then deduct this new settlement figure from the 
amount Mrs L actually paid, in March 2021, and refund her the difference. 
 
B. Zopa should add simple interest on the amount of the refund in A from when this 
amount was paid, in March 2021, until the date she gets this refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
C. Zopa should tell Mrs L what it has done to work out A and B.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Zopa Limited 
should put things right for Mrs L by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman