DRN-3568570
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as F complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited havent
transferred an account to them and locked it which is preventing them trading.
What happened
F bought the assets of a company that Ill refer to as R. F also agreed to take over Rs
Amazon account to continue selling their goods. The account name was changed to Fs but
then, due to Amazon not being sent all the relevant documentation, the account transfer was
stopped, and the account deactivated until the account could be verified.
F complained to Amazon as they said theyd provided all of the information needed but
Amazon still werent re-activating the account and completing the transfer to F. Amazon
reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said not all of the information asked for
had been provided and until Amazon could verify the account, they wouldnt take any further
action. Unhappy with Amazons response, F referred their complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that
Amazon hadnt confirmed what was still outstanding and as F had said they had provided
everything asked for he didnt think Amazon were acting fairly by not activating the account
and completing the transfer. Amazon didnt agree and reiterated that all the information
needed to verify the account hadnt been provided.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 September 2022 where I said:
When Rs Amazon account was transferred to F, R needed to provide certain documents to 
re-verify the account before Amazon would do the transfer. Amazon have provided a list of
documents they need to review before verifying the account.
While I can see F have provided some of the documents, Im not persuaded Amazon have
done anything wrong here. I say this because when the transfer was to be completed it
needed to be done by R. I understand F said theyve purchased R, but the document
provided for the sale shows that F have only purchased the assets of R. In particular stock,
office furniture and equipment, and goodwill.
So as F and R are different legal entities and Amazon have confirmed that R needs to
provide the information to verify the account and transfer it to F. Im not persuaded Amazon
have done anything wrong by not transferring it on the request of F. Ive also considered
whether F have provided all the information Amazon have asked for from R, and Im not
persuaded they have.
I say this because Amazon have asked for the following:
The liquidators deposit method entered in Seller Central
A bank account statement under the name of the liquidator
Evidence of the appointment for this liquidation
The liquidator's VAT number
A letter of authorization (LOA) in which the business owner (BO)
authorizes the liquidator to manage the account
A copy of the most recent share allotment document showing breakdown
of shares
I can see F have provided the bank statement and evidence of the appointment of the
liquidator, but Im not satisfied theyve provided the other items asked for. As the verification
is for R to complete and I cant see Amazon have been sent everything theyve asked for. 
Im not persuaded Amazon have acted unreasonably. It therefore follows that Im not going 
to tell them to do anything else.
Amazon didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested. F responded and 
didnt accept it. They said all the information requested had been sent to Amazon. They also 
said the account had recently been reactivated to enable the transfer from R to F but then 
had been deactivated again as the account relates to R. F also provided a copy of the e-mail 
showing this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Fs response, but Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. I 
say this because Im not persuaded all the documents have been provided to Amazon, as 
explained in my provisional decision and above. Ive also considered that the account has 
been reactivated and then deactivated recently. However, the e-mail F provided seems to be 
referring to R needing to complete the transfer, so Im not persuaded it shows Amazon have 
done anything wrong. Im therefore not going to tell Amazon to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman