DRN-3981035
The complaint
Miss T complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave her 
another loan after she had already raised a complaint about unaffordable lending. 
She says for her final loan, was approved without her needing to supply any documents and 
the final loan wasnt affordable because Miss T was in a debt spiral. 
 
What happened
Miss T was advanced a total of three loans between December 2019 and April 2021. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below. 
However, this decision only focuses on loan 3, but loans 1 and 2 have been included to 
show the overall lending relationship. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £500.00 06/12/2019 29/05/2020 6 £144.68
2 £200.00 21/09/2020 31/03/2021 6 £62.57
3 £450.00 09/04/2021 outstanding 9 £97.55
Based on the statement of account, the last payment Miss T made towards loan 3 was in 
October 2022. Shelby says, as of November 2022 Miss T still owed it around £540. 
Following Miss Ts complaint about her third loan, Shelby wrote to her to explain that it 
wasnt going to uphold the complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks which 
showed the loan was affordable. Unhappy, Miss T, referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In the adjudicators latest assessment, she thought Shelby ought to not have provided the 
third and final loan. This is because the loan was granted only a couple of months after 
Shelby issued a separate final response letter about whether loans 1 and 2 were 
irresponsibly lent. This led the adjudicator to conclude Shelby ought to have verified the 
information Miss T had provided. Had it done so, it wouldve discovered that Miss T already 
had five outstanding payday loans and so the loan wasnt sustainable for her. 
Shelby didnt agree. Ive read in full what it has sent but Ive summarised the response 
below. 
When loan 3 was approved, Miss T had around £5,200 of outstanding debt, which 
Shelby doesnt consider to be excessive. 
The credit report didnt have any information such as defaults that gave Shelby cause 
for concern. 
Miss Ts income was verified with a credit reference agency and after carrying out 
expenditure checks it was satisfied Miss T could afford the loan. 
The checks before granting loan 3 were proportionate. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I want to be clear that this decision only deals with whether Shelby should or should not 
have approved loan 3. 
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Miss T could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ts 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss T. These factors include:
Miss T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss T. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss T was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint in relation to loan 3 only.
Loan 3
In-between loan 2 and loan 3 being approved, Miss T made a complaint to Shelby about her 
first two loans because she said they were unaffordable. Shelby provided an answer to Miss T about loans 1 and 2 in January 2021.  But this was only a few months before loan 3 
was advanced. Ive kept this in mind when deciding whether proportionate checks were 
carried out. 
Miss T declared she had a monthly income of £1,920 and she also declared monthly 
outgoings of £780. This left £1,140 in declared disposable income for Miss T to be able to 
afford the monthly repayments she was committed to making of around £97.
However, as part of the affordability assessment, Shelby checked Miss Ts income with a 
credit reference agency, after doing so, it reduced her income to £1,740. Shelby also carried 
out further checks on Miss Ts expenditure  it considered data provided by the Office of 
National Statistics as well as what it saw on her credit report. After carrying out these 
checks, it increased her expenditure to £802.91. This left disposable income of around £937 
and so the loan still looked affordable. 
In addition, before the loan was approved, Shelby says it also carried out a credit search. It 
is worth saying here that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Shelby received may not entirely reflect 
the information Miss T may be able to view in her downloadable credit report. There could be 
a number of reasons for this, such as Shelby only asking for certain pieces of information. 
But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received.
Looking at the credit file, Shelby knew Miss T had overall debts of around £5,200, had one 
account become defaulted within the previous 12 months and had one active payday loan 
account. While Shelby was aware of some adverse credit file data, I dont think the results 
alone wouldve been enough for it to either have prompted further checks or have led to 
Shelby declining the loan application. 
However, as Ive said above, this loan was approved only a matter of months after Miss T 
had raised an unaffordable lending complaint about loans 1 and 2 and which she received a 
final response letter about. So, I do think Shelby was on notice that Miss T may have been 
having some difficulties because she had already raised a complaint about them. This ought 
to have prompted it to have made further enquires with Miss T.  
Therefore, I think Shelby needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ts actual financial 
position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in 
several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, looking at bank statements, 
reviewing Miss Ts full credit file or obtaining any other documentation Shelby felt may have 
been needed.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other 
information that Shelby mightve needed to consider about Miss Ts financial position.
Miss T has provided copies of her bank statements for the months leading up to this loan 
being approved and so I think its entirely reasonable to view these. I appreciate there was 
no regulatory requirement for Shelby to have viewed the bank statements, but as Ive said 
above this was only one of a number of ways it couldve gone about verifying Miss Ts 
information and I consider this needed to have been done in order for a proportionate check 
to have been conducted. 
Had further checks been carried out, Shelby wouldve likely discovered Miss T already had 
five outstanding payday loans and two high-cost credit loans which was costing Miss T over £800 per month to service. In my view, the sheer number of outstanding payday loans mean 
this Shelby loan was clearly unstainable and suggested that Miss T was having financial 
difficulties as she had a need to take on new borrowing.
In addition, the cost of servicing just these debts (and before the current Shelby loan) was 
factored in wouldve taken up nearly 50% of Miss Ts income before any other credit 
commitments  such as the credit card and mobile phone contracts were considered and 
any other living costs. 
Taking everything into account, loan 3 was neither sustainable nor likely affordable for 
Miss T and Shelby wouldve realised this had it carried out what I consider to be a 
proportionate check. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Shelby should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent loan 3 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss T may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss T would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Shelbys liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Shelby shouldnt have given Miss T loan 3. If Shelby has sold the outstanding debts it
should buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Shelby is not 
able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve
the results outlined below.
A. Shelby should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss T towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B. Shelby should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss T which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss T 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Shelby should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss T as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Miss T 
having made overpayments then Shelby should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. It should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss T. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then Shelby should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss T.
E. Shelby should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file in 
relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shelby to deduct tax from this interest. Shelby should
give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ts complaint about loan 3. 
Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should put things right for Miss T as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman