DRN-4264462
Complaint
Mrs N has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mrs N with a loan for £1,500.00 in March 2019. This loan had a 
term of 18 months and an APR of 77.7%. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,337.66, including interest, fees and charges of £837.66, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of £129.87. 
Mrs N also made an application for a second loan from Everyday Loans in September 2020. 
However, as this loan was never paid out, weve not looked into the application for loan 2. 
And all references made to loan from this point are made in relation to loan 1.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ns complaint and she thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Mrs N with her loan. So she thought that Mrs Ns complaint should 
be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ns complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Mrs N. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Mrs N such 
that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Mrs N could afford to repay any 
credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and requested copies of bank statements from Mrs N before this loan was provided. The 
results of which showed that Mrs N was already paying a significant proportion of her 
monthly income towards credit repayments and was in a cycle of high-cost lending. And the 
bank statements obtained also showed that Mrs N was overdrawn too.
So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to 
improve Mrs Ns outgoings going forward particularly given the copies of payslips obtained 
also showed that Mrs N was on a low income too.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mrs N has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Mrs Ns difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Mrs Ns version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Ns existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Mrs Ns circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Mrs N with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs N ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs N lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs N
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mrs N by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs N paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs N to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about this loan from Mrs Ns 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman