DRN-2530978
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) closed his bank and credit card accounts 
without reason and registered a late payment marker on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr A says he received a letter in June 2019 from HSBC informing him they were closing his 
credit card and bank accounts with them. Mr A says he was given no explanation why this 
was. Mr A says he attempted to make payments into his bank account, but he was told by 
HSBC he couldnt. Mr A says that despite his attempts to pay into his overdrawn account he 
was issued with a default notice and a late payment marker was lodged with credit reference 
agencies making it difficult for him to open bank accounts elsewhere. Mr A says HSBC have 
accepted they made an error in not accepting the deposits he tried to make and offered £50 
by way of apology, but this isnt sufficient. Mr A wants HSBC to remove the late payment 
marker from his credit file and give an explanation why his accounts have been closed. 
HSBC says they gave sufficient notice to Mr A of their intention to close his accounts with 
them and they do not need to give an explanation why they have taken this action, under the 
terms and conditions of the accounts. While HSBC have accepted the branch staff should 
have allowed a deposit Mr A attempted to make, this wasnt sufficient to clear the 
outstanding balance, but have offered Mr A £50 as way of an apology.
Mr A wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He 
felt HSBC werent required to give a reason why they chose to terminate the banking 
relationship and had given sufficient notice when doing so. The investigator felt the 
compensation offered to Mr A by HSBC, was reasonable for the trouble Mr A experienced 
when trying to pay funds into his account - although this wasnt sufficient to clear the 
outstanding debt and therefore the notice on his credit file wasnt unfair. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I do understand that it would be upsetting for Mr A to have received notice from HSBC they 
intended to end their banking relationship without a detailed explanation why. Mr A is also 
upset that HSBC have lodged a late payment marker on his credit file although he says he 
had attempted to make payments into his bank account. When looking into this complaint I 
have considered if HSBC were entitled to end Mr As banking relationship with them and if 
they acted fairly when registering a late payment marker on Mr As credit file. 
What happened here was Mr A was issued with a letter from HSBC in June 2019 informing 
him they were going to close both his bank and credit card accounts with them. While Mr A 
may not agree, HSBC, like all banks, are able to make commercial decisions whom they 
wish to conduct business with and its not my role to tell them otherwise. Its worth saying, 
this is detailed under section 27 of the terms and conditions of Mr As bank account, a copy 
of which has been provided to Mr A by the investigator. While I understand this would have 
been upsetting for Mr A, HSBC did give him 60 - days written notice and this is what I would 
expect to see in these circumstances. So, it follows I cant say HSBC have done anything 
wrong here.  
Mr A also complains that HSBC have lodged a late payment marker on his credit file even 
though he had made attempts to pay into his account which were refused by HSBC. What 
happened here was, Mr A had originally received a letter from HSBC in June 2019 which 
states he needed to repay any outstanding balance immediately after the notice period 
ending on 21 August 2019. In addition to this Mr A was issued with a default notice on 3 
September 2019 asking for full repayment by 24 September 2019 and when this wasnt met, 
a final demand was issued on 26 September 2019.
Mr A makes the point HSBC have admitted they had incorrectly informed him they couldnt 
accept deposits to his account. I have considered the point Mr A makes here and 
understand this would have been frustrating for him. That said, from the information I have 
seen the deposit which Mr A refers to, was the closing balance from his credit card account 
with HSBC in the form of a cheque for £250.10 which he attempted to deposit initially, in late 
September 2019. From what I can see HSBC have accepted the marker they placed on Mr 
As account caused the confusion with branch staff and prevented the cheque for £250.10 
being deposited - HSBC have apologised for this and offered Mr A £50 for the trouble this 
caused, which I feel is fair in the circumstances. While I can see the deposit was incorrectly 
refused by HSBC, as Mr A says, from the information I have seen this payment, wouldnt 
have been sufficient to have cleared the outstanding balance, that both the letters of closure 
and default had demanded. I havent seen any evidence to show any other deposits were 
attempted to have been made by Mr A that would have been sufficient to fully repay the 
outstanding balance of his bank account. 
While Mr A may not agree, the date to deal with any outstanding balance was initially set by 
HSBC in the notice to close the account, which was by the 21 August 2019 and a further 
notice of default was issued asking for the full balance to be cleared by 24 September. So, 
while Mr A attempted to make a deposit, on the expiry date of the default notice, even if it 
had been accepted it wasnt sufficient to clear the full outstanding debit balance of his bank 
account, so I cant say HSBC acted unreasonably in reporting this. Its worth mentioning the 
consequences of not meeting these timescales were explained in the default notice Mr A 
received, in particular non-payment could be reported to the appropriate credit reference 
agencies. Its important to say HSBC, like all banks, have an obligation to accurately report 
their customers account activity to the appropriate credit reference agencies and I am 
satisfied this is what happened here. 
It follows while Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman