DRN-3612992
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he has received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) under his homecare policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a homecare policy with British Gas, which included an annual boiler service.
In 2022 Mr A complained to British Gas that his boiler hadnt been serviced under the policy 
since 2015. He also complained that he had been unable to book a service for the current 
year online as the website would not load properly. He also found it very difficult to get 
through to British Gas on the phone.
British Gas agreed that the boiler hadnt been serviced for six years. They said they had sent 
out some reminders to Mr A to book his service but accepted that this hadnt happened 
every year. They said that the cost of the service was £65 a year and agreed to refund a 
total of £390. Two years refunds had already been credited to Mr As bank account in May 
2021 and so a further £260 was paid in March 2022. They also paid Mr A £30 compensation 
to reflect the difficulties he had experienced booking his service for 2022. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said that over the 
last 6 years he has paid around £2,500 for his homecare policy and didnt think that £65 a 
year was the true cost of the boiler service. He would also like the £30 compensation 
increased to £40 to take into consideration his time and effort, plus the electricity he used. 
Our investigator didnt think that British Gas need do any more as they had already refunded 
the cost of the annual service and paid compensation for the difficulties Mr A had booking 
his boiler service. 
Mr A suffers from disabilities which impact on his everyday life and he also complained to 
this service that British Gas discriminated against him when they closed one of their local 
offices. He said that his disabilities meant that it was much easier for him to communicate 
with British Gas in person at the office rather than using their website or telephone. Although 
Mr A hadnt raised this as a complaint with British Gas, our investigator considered the issue 
so as not to delay matters further for Mr A. He concluded that closure of a local office was 
not unreasonable. British Gas didnt make any further comments, but Mr A asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As homecare policy is a policy of insurance and covers breakdown, accidental damage 
and repair of his boiler and central heating system. A benefit of the policy is that it also 
includes an annual boiler service. 
The policy terms and conditions make it clear that a boiler service is provided in each policy 
term  not necessarily each year. Page 28 of the terms and conditions says that British Gas 
will contact the customer up to three times to arrange the boiler service but after that no 
further reminders will be sent.  
British Gas accept that they didnt service Mr As boiler for six years  the last service being 
in July 2015. They also accept that they didnt send reminders to Mr A as they should have 
every year. Ive looked at the information provided by British Gas and I can see that 2019/20 
was the only year that British Gas sent the three reminders to Mr A. However, during this 
year despite attending to repair the boiler they didnt also carry out a service. Im therefore 
satisfied that Mr A didnt receive the annual boiler service that he should have for six years 
and that its fair for him to be refunded the cost of these.
British Gas say that the element of the policy cost that covers the annual service is £65 and 
on this basis they refunded Mr A a total of £390. I dont think this was unreasonable. Its 
important to remember that Mr As homecare policy covers a lot more than just the annual 
service  it is primarily an insurance policy that covers breakdown and repair of the boiler 
and central heating system. Mr A had the benefit of this cover over the years even if he 
didnt need to use it. 
Mr A suggests that I should look at the full cost of providing the boiler service including the 
profits made by British Gas and consider the true invoice cost to the customer. I would like to 
reassure Mr A that Ive carefully considered his comments and seen a copy of all his policies 
with their annual cost. I understand Mr A doesnt think that £65 represents the true cost of 
the boiler service, but its not for me to tell British Gas how to charge for elements of their 
policies. This is a commercial decision for them and not one this service would interfere with. 
What I can look at is whether Mr A has been treated fairly and I think he has. Im satisfied 
that £65 is the standard cost that British Gas attribute to the boiler service and that Mr A has 
been refunded the full six years. 
Mr A also complains about difficulties he had trying to book his 2022 service. He says he 
tried at different times of the day to access the website without success. He also went down 
to his local library to use their computer but was still not able to book an appointment. He did 
eventually manage to get through to British Gas on the phone and book his boiler service. 
British Gas have apologised for the problems Mr A experienced and paid him £30 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. I can see that British Gas couldnt find any 
problems with their website or Mr As online account, but they did offer an apology for the 
length of time it took him to get through to them on the phone. I do understand how 
frustrating these issues must have been for Mr A, but in the circumstances I think £30 
compensation is fair.
Ive also considered the issue of discrimination over the closure of the local British Gas 
office. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given 
that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable. If Mr A wants a decision that British Gas has breached the Equality Act 2010, 
then hed need to go to Court. I appreciate that due to his disabilities Mr A found it much 
easier to communicate with British Gas in person and that hes lost what he considered a 
valuable service. However, closure of an office is a commercial decision and not one that I 
can get involved in. I cant therefore say that British Gas acted unreasonably.
  
I can see that Mr A mentioned his disabilities when he complained to British Gas, but it 
doesnt appear that British Gas were aware of them prior to this. There is an onus on 
customers to let businesses know if they have communication needs that differ to other 
customers and that they may require adjustments. I understand that Mr A prefers face to face communication but as this is no longer available in his local area, Id expect British Gas 
to offer suitable alternatives such as phone and email  which they do. I think Mr Hs policy 
may now have been cancelled but if not, I would expect British Gas to discuss with Mr A how 
they can look at making reasonable adjustments to assist him booking his annual service in 
future.
I appreciate that this will be a huge disappointment for Mr A, but Im not upholding this 
complaint as I think British Gas have done enough to resolve matters. I hope he understands 
my reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman