DRN-3410644
The complaint
E and Mr H complain about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) for 
its decision to cancel his landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H and E own a commercial property which is rented out. That property was insured by 
Direct Line using a landlords insurance policy. 
In late September 2021, Mr H contacted Direct Line and explained that he intended to carry 
out renovations to his rental property. He described the planned renovations which were 
extensive, including installing an RSJ, replacement of the roof and extension into the loft 
space. He estimated that the cost of the works would be around £80,000 and up to 
£100,000. He explained that he planned to commence works in mid-October 2021.  
Direct Line advised him that it did not consider that his policy was appropriate for his needs 
through the building works. It therefore intended to cancel the policy with effect from the date 
when he expected work to begin. 
Direct Line then confirmed this in writing to Mr H. 
Mr H then suspended his plans for the building works and asked Direct Line to reinstate the 
policy. Direct Line declined to do so, on the basis that the policy would not be suitable for the 
works when they began. 
Mr H was unhappy and complained to us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that 
Direct Line was entitled to reassess the risk of Mr Hs property, and it was entitled to take a 
view that this was a risk it did not wish to cover. He therefore did not ask Direct Line to do 
anything further. 
Mr H did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Hs frustration here, but I agree with the investigators conclusions. 
Businesses are entitled to assess the risk of a property and decide whether it is something 
they wish to offer cover for. When they become aware of a change of risk, it is appropriate to 
reassess the risk and act accordingly. 
In this case, the work which Mr H was planning was not insignificant and involved a number 
of new risks, including that the property, which was above another property, would spend 
some time without a roof. 
Direct Line considered that the risk had substantively changed, and it no longer wanted to 
offer cover. This is quite proper. 
Direct Lines policy required that if Direct Line wished to cancel the policy it needed to give 7 
days written notice. Mr H has acknowledged receiving 7 days notice and the case notes 
show that Mr H was given more than 14 days verbal notice. The cancellation was to take 
effect on the first day of the works, and this is not unusual. 
The cancellation was without prejudice and was not added to the cancellation register, so it 
will not cause detriment to Mr H. 
Mr H then wished to delay the works and reinstate his cover but Direct Line did not wish to 
take the risk back on only to cancel it later. This was Direct Lines right and I do not criticise 
it. 
I appreciate that Mr H found it difficult to find alternative cover in the time he had, and that he 
was without insurance for a period of time after the policy ended. This is unfortunate, but as 
Direct Line acted within its rights and obligations I cannot say that Direct Line acted unfairly. 
Consequently, whilst I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr H, I do not uphold this 
complaint and I do not ask U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Direct Line to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman