DRN-1248062
The complaint
Mr L complains  about charges he was asked to pay when his agreement with 
LeasePlan UK Limited ended.
What happened
In April 2016 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan. The agreement was for a term of 36 months.
At the end of the agreement in May 2019 the car was returned and inspected. The 
inspection report identified cuts in the front carpet which were deemed to exceed fair wear 
and tear. LeasePlan asked Mr L to pay damage charges of £697.13.
Mr L disputed the charges. He said the carpet had become worn because he'd driven the car 
every day. He felt that some wear and tear was to be expected.
LeasePlan didn't uphold Mr L's complaint, so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt that the damage fell outside normal wear and tear and that the charges 
had been applied fairly.
Mr L didn't agree. He said with the exception of the carpet the car was in excellent condition 
and that it was reasonable to expect some wear to the carpet when the car had been used 
every day for three years. He also said the amount of charges were unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr L must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customer's 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
I've looked at the inspection report including the photos. I can see that there are cuts in the 
drivers side carpet which have damaged the carpet material. I've taken into account the 
relevant guidelines and I'm satisfied that the cuts go beyond fair wear and tear. So I think the 
charges have been applied fairly.
I've taken into account what Mr L has said about the rest of the car being in good condition. I 
don't disagree with him about this because the carpet is the only area of significant damage. 
I appreciate that Mr L drove the car every day and feels that it's reasonable to expect a 
degree of wear and tear. Again, I don't disagree with him. However, if the wear and tear goes beyond what is deemed acceptable in accordance with the relevant guidelines, then 
the agreement says that Mr L is responsible.
I understand that Mr L feels that the level of charges are too high. He's made the point that 
he can get the carpet repaired for less than LeasePlan is asking him to pay. It's not the role 
of this service to tell LeasePlan what it can charge, or to ask it to use a particular company to 
repair the damage.
Taking everything into consideration, and whilst I appreciate Mr L's disappointment, I'm 
satisfied that the damage to the carpet exceeds fair wear and tear in accordance with the 
relevant guidelines. I don't think LeasePlan has acted unfairly in assessing the damage in 
accordance with the guidelines and I'm satisfied that the charges have been fairly applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman