DRN-1774640
 
The complaint
Mr I says Stagemount Limited trading at the time as Quidmarket irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Quidmarket provided to Mr I in January 2016. Mr Is loan 
history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 25/01/2016 29/03/2018 3 £250.00 £116.57
Mr I said he faced significant financial difficulty because of being given loans he couldnt 
afford.
In its final response Quidmarket told Mr I it would not uphold his complaint. It said it had 
asked various questions of Mr I, including verifying his income and carrying out a credit 
check. Based on the information it had Quidmarket agreed to lend. It said the decision to 
approve Mr Is loan application was both responsible and made in good faith. Later Mr I fell 
into difficulty and Quidmarket agreed a £25 per month repayment plan and Mr I made nine 
repayments over the next two years. Mr I didnt incur default interest.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a matter which should be upheld. She said given the 
amount of the loan, Mr Is history with Quidmarket and what was apparent about Mr Is 
circumstances she didnt think it would have been proportionate to ask Mr I for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable or that Mr I might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Mr I disagreed with this view. He said that the information in the credit report Quidmarket 
saw was not at all accurate. Even so it still showed two active loans overdue - so it didnt 
make sense for it to lend him more money.
Mr I asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidmarket was required to establish 
whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint. 
I realise Mr I feels strongly about his complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him but I have 
considered everything hes told me very carefully and Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain the reasons why.
This was the first time Mr I had taken out a loan with Quidmarket and as I explained above 
the checks it needed to carry out should have been proportionate. As this was the first loan 
Mr I had taken out with Quidmarket the checks didnt need to be as rigorous as they might 
be if Mr I had gone on to take out numerous further loans. In this case, I think the checks 
Quidmarket did were proportionate. 
When Mr I made his application, he told Quidmarket that his income was £2,381. He also 
said his monthly rent/mortgage repayment was £150, that his credit commitments were 
£674, his monthly utilities were £60 and his other monthly outgoings were £190. From this 
information Quidmarket said Mr I had a disposable income of £1,307. So Quidmarket 
wouldve thought the loan repayment was affordable for Mr I. 
Quidmarket has also provided with a copy of its credit check results. I understand Mr I has 
seen this report. Mr I has pointed to the fact that this report is inaccurate and didnt reflect his 
true indebtedness. However, its important to emphasise that this credit check didnt 
necessarily reflect the same results that might have been revealed in Mr Is own credit report. I think Quidmarkets checks would have been relatively basic and not as 
comprehensive. Some of the loans Mr I had might not have been revealed as there is 
sometimes a time lag before loans may be reported to the credit reference agencies.
From the report, I accept that two loan accounts were open but this in itself would not have 
alerted Quidmarket to the fact that Mr I was having problems managing money or that the 
loan repayments were unsustainable. The search also revealed no delinquent accounts, no 
bankruptcy or county court judgments. Taking account of what Ive said above, about the 
length of the lending relationship, I think for loan 1 the checks Quidmarket did were 
proportionate. Considering all the circumstances I think Quidmarket did enough and I dont 
think the checks it did would have suggested the loan was unaffordable. 
I appreciate and am sorry that Mr I was experiencing financial difficulty and that he was 
finding managing his money difficult at this point. But there is no clear record that the credit 
checks carried out exposed all these issues.
Ive also thought about Mr Is other point about other cases being upheld even early on in a 
lending relationship. But each case is decided on its own circumstances and merits and the 
issues which apply in one case dont necessarily apply in another case. 
I hope Mr I understands the reasons I cant say this loan was irresponsibly given and why I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020. 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman