DRN-2914960
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs C says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs C opened a store card account in a shop in 1998. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding balance on Mrs Cs store card account 
each month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if shed lost her 
job. It also included some purchase protection and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed 
with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to decide what I thinks most likely, 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Cs application for the store card. It includes a section on 
Payment & Purchase Protection. Theres a brief description of the purpose of the cover, 
and theres a box to tick if the applicant wished to take the cover. The box was ticked. 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Cs told us that her vision can be blurred if she has to focus 
on small or fine print. But she ticked the box to confirm that she wished to take the PPI 
and purchase protection cover. And if she wasnt sure what she was agreeing to, she 
could have asked. 
I acknowledge that Mrs C has suggested that the box may have been ticked by a 
member of AXA or the stores staff after she signed the form. But without stronger 
evidence to suggest that the box was ticked by someone other than Mrs C, I cant 
reasonably decide its more likely than not that this happened. 
Ive also borne in mind that the payments for the PPI would have been shown clearly on 
Mrs Cs monthly credit card statements. If she didnt know what they were for, or didnt 
remember signing up for PPI, Id have expected her to query this with AXA. Ive seen 
nothing to make me think that she did so.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs C realised at the time 
that the PPI was optional, and that she decided to take it out knowing that she had a 
choice. But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
Based on what we know about the way these PPI policies were sold at the time, Im 
satisfied that AXA wouldnt have recommended the PPI to Mrs C or given her advice 
about it. This means it didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for Mrs C. But 
AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs C enough information to enable her to decide 
for herself whether she wished to take the cover.
Mrs Cs told us shed have been entitled to a months full pay and a months half pay in 
the first year with her employer at the time. That would have increased by a further 
months full pay and a further months half pay for each subsequent year with that 
employer. 
If Mrs C had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or 
she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid 
 whichever happened sooner. Based on what Mrs Cs told us, the PPI would potentially 
have paid out for longer than shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs C received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
I acknowledge that Mrs C has told us that she and her husband were very financially 
secure, and that she wouldnt have struggled to make the repayments on her card if 
shed been off sick or made redundant. But while I dont doubt what Mrs C has said, 
circumstances can change unexpectedly, and I cant be sure that Mrs C would have 
remained in a position to keep up with her monthly outgoings if she was off sick for an 
extended period, or if she lost her job.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs C chose to take out the 
PPI. So I think she wanted the cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now, so 
long after the event. 
Ive considered the fact that Mrs C has told us that she had a long-term medical 
condition. But from what shes told us, the condition was well-managed with medication 
and didnt affect her ability to do her job. Based on what Mrs Cs told us about the 
condition and how it was managed, I dont think its likely that shed have expected to 
take much, if any, time off sick for it. And she could have claimed on the policy if shed 
needed to take time off work for any unrelated illness or condition. So I dont think that 
clearer information about the exclusion for existing medical conditions would have 
affected her decision to take out the PPI.
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mrs C wasnt affected by any 
of the other main things the policy didnt cover. So given that Im satisfied that shed 
chosen to take the PPI, I think its unlikely that better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations would have put her off.As Ive already mentioned, the payments for the policy would have been shown clearly 
on Mrs Cs monthly store card statements. And she could have cancelled the policy at 
any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the 
cover. 
Ive taken account of all Mrs Cs comments, including what shes said about introductory 
discounts sometimes being offered with store cards, and about times in the past when shes 
taken out store cards and has felt rushed to make a decision at the till. But Ive explained 
that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs C would have realised that she didnt have to take out 
the PPI in order to get the card. She could have benefited from the policy and could have 
cancelled it at any point if she changed her mind. So these points dont change my 
conclusion. I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman