DRN-2565181
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the insurance advice given to him by Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited in 
respect of him taking on a prospective tenant.   
What happened
On 25 August 2020 Mr Ds letting agent contacted Jelf as he was in the process of getting 
references for a new tenant for his property. Mr D was advised by the letting agent that 
although the proposed tenant passed the other references there was a problem with the 
bank reference. Jelf was asked if this would affect the insurance, as Mr D had to sign a letter 
of indemnity with the letting agents. Jelf contacted Mr Ds insurer and the following day 
advised Mr D that [the insurers] have confirmed with the letter of indemnity that will be okay. 
And following the other checks you have in place this will be absolutely fine. On 27 August, 
the agents wrote to Mr D to advise him they didnt recommend him proceeding, but if, 
against this advice, he wanted to continue, he should sign the letter of indemnity.
On the next day a different adviser at Jelf emailed the letting agent to advise that not having 
the proper references can affect the Landlords rent guarantee cover. Nevertheless they 
wrote to Mr D confirming that there wasnt an issue with the terms on the insurers part, as 
long as the proper agreement and checks were in place. Mr D said that, in reliance on Jelfs 
earlier advice, he had proceeded to let his existing tenant leave early. Mr D then sent Jelf a 
copy of the proposed letter of indemnity and wanted to know by signing it whether it would 
affect all his insurances. Jelf contacted the insurer again, and as a result advised Mr D that it 
could affect the rent guarantee cover on the insurance and not to sign the indemnity letter. 
Mr D decided not to proceed with the tenant.
Mr D complained to Jelf that he had been given misleading advice as a result of which he 
lost rent by allowing his existing tenant to give up their tenancy early. Hed also waived the 
requirement for a professional clean. He also wanted to claim for the cost of the references 
and checks. Jelf advised that the initial enquiry related to the insurance in general. And that 
the subsequent enquiry concerned the rent guarantee cover, as a result of which it advised 
Mr D not to proceed. It felt it had handled Mr Ds queries correctly.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that the information given to Mr D by Jelf 
was clear.
Mr D didnt agree, he said that Jelf had caused him to lose money and that he had suffered 
mental and physical distress.
 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that the initial advice given to Mr D was clear. He was told the proposed letter of 
indemnity would be ok. For the purposes of the overall cover this was right, but as the policy 
appeared to have rent guarantee cover as part of it, it should have been clarified. But I bear 
in mind that the day after receiving this advice Mr D received a letter from the letting agents, 
advising him not to proceed. And it appears that despite this advice Mr D decided to allow 
his tenant to leave early. Over the course of the following day, Mr D asked for clarification of 
the letter of indemnity the agents were asking him to sign. It appears that this indemnified 
the agents in case of any default in payment of the rent, in respect of their advice not to 
proceed. Also the insurer clarified that it wouldnt affect his overall insurance but could affect 
the rent guarantee. As a result Jelf advised him not to sign the letter, and he didnt proceed 
with the proposed tenant.
I bear in mind the total time period of three days from when Mr D first asked about their 
insurance position with Jelf. And whilst Jelf could have clarified with Mr D whether he was 
concerned about the rent guarantee cover or the whole policy, there was no reason to 
suppose that Mr D would have straightaway committed himself to allowing his tenant to 
leave, and contrary to the letting agents advice, decided to proceed without full references. 
And the full terms of the letter of indemnity werent available to Jelf until 28 August, at which 
time it clarified with the insurer what it would mean for the rent guarantee.
Mr D seeks recovery of lost rent, the cost of a professional clean and the cost of references 
for the prospective tenant. My view is that the cost of references is something Mr D would 
have had to incur anyway, as theres always the possibility that the prospective tenant will 
not be suitable. Likewise cleaning a property is a normal part of a change in tenancy. As for 
the lost rent, if Mr D has lost rent by allowing his tenant to leave early that was his decision 
before advising Jelf of the full details of the indemnity and against the advice given him by 
his letting agent.
So, overall while I think that Jelf could have been clearer in its initial advice I dont think that 
Mr D has lost out because of that advice.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman