DRN-4434927
The complaint
Mr B complains he was given unsuitable advice by a predecessor business of ReAssure 
Limited to transfer out of his occupational pension scheme and into a personal pension.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
In July 1992 Mr B was advised by General Portfolio to transfer his Armed Forces 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a personal pension. General Portfolio is now part 
of ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) so for ease of reading Ill just refer to ReAssure in the 
decision.
At the time of the advice, Mr Bs deferred benefits were valued at around £4,764, consisting 
of protected and non-protected rights. The plan was also apparently set up to receive his 
annual rebates for contracting out of SERPS, but the complaints not about that aspect.
Mr B, via his representatives, complained about the advice to transfer in December 2022. In 
response ReAssure explained that the sale of the personal pension had been included in the 
industry wide pension review in 1999/2000. Mr B had been sent an invitation to participate in 
the review, and hed returned the questionnaire to indicate he wished the sale of his plan to 
be reviewed. ReAssure had issued Mr B with an outcome on 4 May 2000, which said hed 
suffered no loss as a result of the transfer. Mr B didnt challenge this at the time, so 
ReAssure had closed its file.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said hed changed address around that time, so didnt receive the 
outcome, and didnt recall completing the questionnaire. So in July 2023 he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed the available evidence, which was limited. Although 
ReAssure couldnt provide a copy of the outcome letter or the questionnaire Mr B had 
completed, he was satisfied the sale of Mr Bs policy had been subject to the review, and a 
no loss outcome had been issued, to the same address as was on the questionnaire. He 
said ReAssure had fulfilled the regulators expectations under the terms of the pension 
review, so it didnt need to carry out a second review now. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B said he would provide evidence of his change of address but was unable to do so. 
So the case was passed to me to decide whether ReAssure should review Mr Bs policy 
again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators outcome for the following reasons.
As the investigator explained, the then regulator established the industry wide pension 
review to deal with widespread mis-selling in the 1990s. The sale of Mr Bs policy was 
identified as falling within the scope of the review, so he was invited to participate. I dont find 
it surprising he doesnt now recall completing a questionnaire more than twenty years ago. 
But I dont think its necessary for ReAssure to provide a copy of the questionnaire itself, as 
their system records show that it received a completed copy and the address it was sent to. 
The pension review process was set out by the regulator, which provided templated publicity 
material, and invitation and outcome letters. It closely oversaw the process, and the progress 
firms were making, so Ive no reason to think ReAssure didnt carry out the review in line 
with the regulators expectations. 
ReAssure has provided screenshots of its pension review system record relating to Mr B. 
This showed he joined the OPS in June 1981 and left in June 1992 and captured various 
personal details about Mr B and the scheme he was a member of, which wouldve been 
taken from the questionnaire he completed. So even without seeing a copy of the 
questionnaire, Im satisfied Mr B was aware at the time the sale of his policy was included in 
the review, and he'd be expecting an outcome in due course. 
The regulator also prescribed the process and methodology for the loss calculations, which 
compared the benefits the member wouldve been entitled to under the OPS and the 
performance of the personal pension. ReAssures records show that this calculation 
provided a no loss outcome, which meant at the time it didnt look like Mr B had lost out as 
a result of the transfer. 
The system screen shots show the questionnaire and outcome letter were sent to the same 
address. Mr B says he wasnt at that address in May 2000 when the outcome letter was 
sent. I understand Mr B told our investigator hed provide information to confirm his address 
at that time but hasnt done so. If Mr B says hed moved to a new address sometime 
between the questionnaire and the outcome letter Ive no reason to doubt this, even without 
seeing evidence. But if Mr B didnt receive the outcome letter because hed moved and 
hadnt arranged to redirect his mail or provide ReAssure with his new address, it doesnt 
follow Id think it fair for ReAssure to review the sale of his policy again. 
Mr B knew at the time, even if he cant recall it now, that his policy was being reviewed so he 
could have contacted ReAssure for a copy of the outcome letter. But if he had received the 
outcome letter hed have been reassured that he hadnt been disadvantaged by the transfer, 
so I think its unlikely hed have taken any action. 
The industry-wide pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise to draw a line under 
a specific period of pension mis-selling, and the methodology relied upon standards and 
assumptions which the regulator decided were appropriate at the time. Some of those 
assumptions about investment returns and annuity rates have proved to be optimistic and 
inaccurate. But thats only known with the benefit of hindsight. As ReAssure reviewed Mr Bs 
policy as it was required to do to comply with the pensions review, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to say it should carry out another review now. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and dont require ReAssure Limited to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 Sarah Milne
Ombudsman