DRN-2591393
The complaint
 Mr T says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to 
cover a mortgage and a shorter-term unsecured loan taken at the same time. The PPI 
covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
What happened
 This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. HSBC disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what HSBC has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. This is 
because HSBC recommended the policy to Mr T, but I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation. 
Mr T had fairly good sickness benefits from his employer, which would have given him full 
pay for six months and half pay for six months. But he also had an income protection (IP) 
policy from HSBC which was already in place. The combined effect of the employer sick pay 
and the income protection policy meant that, after six months of sickness on full pay, Mr T 
would be entitled to about 70% of his income each month until he reached retirement age, if 
he was off work through sickness. 
The PPI would have paid out for a maximum of 12 months. So, if he didnt have the PPI 
policy, hed have had a shortfall in income sooner. But I dont think the difference in effect 
would have been significant, taking into account the savings he had (albeit moderate) and 
the fact that his financial assessment showed that he had a reasonable surplus of income 
each month after his outgoings  so he didnt have a need to replace his full income.  
Its true that his income from the IP policy wouldnt have been enough to cover all his 
outgoings during the period of the unsecured loan he took out with HSBC for five years. So 
he might have faced some difficulties with paying the unsecured debts a little sooner than if 
he had taken out the PPI, and so he might have needed to reschedule those sooner.  But 
hed have always had enough to cover his mortgage along with essential bills and other 
household living essentials. And the IP policy meant an ongoing secure income until 
retirement, compared to a limited benefit protection policy. 
So my conclusion is that the recommendation to Mr T, to take out PPI and, in particular to 
take it out for that level of cover, was not a suitable one. I think if Mr T had been advised 
better, with a fuller assessment of the costs versus the benefits, he wouldnt have taken the 
PPI. 
HSBC has pointed out that the PPI would still have given him 12 months of cover if he had 
been made redundant (which the IP policy would not have covered). This is true, but Mr T 
has said he had been with his employer for 20 years, and so I think that would have made 
redundancy less likely, and he could have expected a generous payment anyway. So I dont 
think that, by itself, would have been enough to make the PPI worth the cost. 
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr T in the position hed be in now, if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and HSBC should:
Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he get[s] it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
HSBC must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr T compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman