DRN-1483787
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about a visit from a field agent in March 2019. They say the field 
agent should have booked an appointment in advance and then he wouldnt have been 
turned away. They think its unfair that Landmark Mortgages Limited charged them a fee for 
the failed visit.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were in arrears on their mortgage. Mr P made a payment on 31 January 2019 
and said hed phone back the following week to clear the remaining arrears. He didnt do so.
Over the next five weeks or so Landmark tried to contact Mr and Mrs P without success. So, 
on 11 March it wrote them a letter stating a field agent would be instructed if Mr and Mrs P 
didnt get in contact in the next five business days. Mr and Mrs P say they didnt receive the 
letter. Landmark followed the letter up with more phone calls, none of which were answered.
On 14 March a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs P about the arrears but not the field agent. 
Mr and Mrs P say they received that letter. On 22 March Landmark instructed a field agent 
and wrote to Mr and Mrs P to tell them. Mr and Mrs P say they didnt receive that letter until 
a week later, after the field agent had visited them. Again, there were further unanswered 
calls made by Landmark. 
The field agent visited Mr and Mrs Ps property on 26 March and spoke to Mrs P. Mrs P 
refused the visit as Mr P wasnt home and she says a neighbour overhead what was 
discussed which has caused her and Mr P embarrassment. Mr P phoned Landmark that 
evening to complain about the field agents visit.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses.
In a recent email to our investigator Mr P has said:
For the avoidance of doubt I accept that if I had contacted Landmark earlier the agent 
may not have been instructed. Unfortunately I did not do this but the fact that Landmark 
involved the agents is not the issue so I think my lack of contact prior to their involvement 
is irrelevant to my complaint. The question I would like addressed is once they became 
involved did the agents conduct the home visit in accordance with industry fair practice? 
So it is events from 22 March onwards that I believe to be important.
As Mr P has confirmed hes not disputing the fact Landmark was right to instruct the field 
agent I wont be considering this point any further, other than to agree Landmark did nothing 
wrong in instructing the field agent when it did. But contrary to Mr Ps belief, his lack of 
contact is entirely relevant to the complaint and Ill come onto that shortly.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs P are the ones bringing the 
complaint against Landmark, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Ps version needs to be 
more likely than Landmarks version; not just as likely. They say a neighbour overheard the 
field agents visit, whereas the field agent said there was no third party nearby.
Mortgage arrears are always a sensitive matter and it seems reasonable that Mr and Mrs P 
would feel uncomfortable being visited at their home about that. But field agent visits are a 
necessary  and sometimes valuable  tool in dealing with mortgage arrears. Having 
considered everything its simply one persons word against anothers, and I cant say 
Mr and Mrs Ps version is anything more than just as likely which isnt enough for me to 
uphold this part of their complaint. Its not the case that I disbelieve them; its just that equally 
I have no reason to disbelieve the field agent either.
The main focus of Mr and Mrs Ps dissatisfaction is that the field agent didnt contact them 
first to arrange an appointment. They say there are rules that state this must happen.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs P have sent us about this, alongside my own 
knowledge and experience. Having done so it seems Mr and Mrs P have overlooked part of 
the sentence about appointments. Mr and Mrs P have said (amongst other submissions 
about this):
Finally, the field agents own trade associations code of practice states that when making 
home visits agents must either give prior notice of the time and date they intend to make 
the visit and/or make an appointment..
The document Mr and Mrs P have taken this from is the Credit Services Associations Code 
of Practice document, and the full sentences say:
Give, where appropriate, adequate notice to a customer of the time and date of a 
visit.
Arrange appointments at a time convenient to the customer, when requested to do 
so.
The key phrase Mr and Mrs P have overlooked is where appropriate, so the code of 
conduct doesnt state prior contact must be made before a visit as Mr and Mrs P believe. 
Whilst Landmarks letter of 22 March says the field agent will contact Mr and Mrs P to 
arrange a convenient time to visit, Mr and Mrs P say they didnt get that letter until after the 
visit had taken place so their issues around that are broadly moot. In any event giving notice (or contact) doesnt necessarily mean phone or write, it could 
mean a visit in-person. Its not unusual for a field agent to visit in-person if they are in the 
area anyway and then book an appointment from that. If no-one is home, theyd generally 
post a letter through the door asking for an appointment to be booked. If someone is at 
home and is co-operative, but the time isnt convenient, then theyd arrange a future 
appointment date and time. 
The field agent report states that Mrs P was agitated and said shed ask her husband to call 
the lender directly. Instead if Mrs P had phoned her husband there and then  or if he was 
likely to be unavailable, taken the field agents contact details and arranged to call him back 
later after shed spoken to Mr P  then the failed visit fee wouldnt have been charged as a 
conversation would have been had and Mr P could have explained that he was going to 
contact the lender to arrange to clear the arrears.
Mr P, by his own admission, hadnt answered any of the numerous calls from his mortgage 
lender, so Ive no reason to believe he would have answered a call from the field agent (to 
book an appointment) if that had been attempted. Mr P has said a text message could have 
been sent to him as it was after the failed visit. But that was unlikely to have worked because 
the code of conduct has rules about the use of text messages, saying:
When sending SMS messages, take reasonable steps to verify that the mobile 
telephone number obtained is valid and is an acceptable form of communication 
before sending debt-related information.
When communicating by SMS and/or email, do not disclose the nature of the contact, 
or refer to the debt or other personal details, unless permitted to do so by the 
customer.
Ive reviewed the text message Mr P received after the failed visit and that doesnt disclose 
the nature of the contact. Having read that message and bearing in mind Mr Ps previous 
lack of engagement Im satisfied that had a similar text been sent to Mr P before the 
attempted visit then  on balance  Mr P was unlikely to have called the agent as requested. 
And had Mr P replied by text asking for further information the agent couldnt have disclosed 
anything more by text message without breaching the code of conduct as he couldnt have 
verified it was Mr P that he was dealing with.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Landmark did nothing wrong here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman