DRN-1565627
The complaint
Mr J complains his Santander UK Plc credit card didnt work when he was on holiday.
What happened
Mr J travelled abroad in April 2019. Mr J said when he was abroad his card only worked 
intermittently and at times wasnt accepted at all. Mr J said the chip on his card had failed at 
the beginning of his trip but as it did work on occasions, he thinks Santander are responsible 
for it not always working
Mr J called Santander while abroad. They said they couldnt send a new card out to him in a 
foreign country. But they assured Mr J, aside from the faulty chip, the card should work as 
there were no issues with the account. They also recommended adding the card to his 
phone as an alternative means of using the card.
Mr J continued to experience issues with the card for the rest of his trip and he still faced the 
same issue after adding the card to his phone.  Mr J said as a result he had to use his debit 
card instead  which used up funds he needed for when he returned home and incurred 
extra charges. It also impacted on his enjoyment of his holiday as he was intending to pay 
on credit, via his credit card.
Santander said a combination of reasons could have resulted in Mr Js card being 
intermittently declined. These included the chip being damaged, their automated security 
system picking up suspicious transactions Mr J had to verify as he was in a foreign country, 
and the way some merchants processed transactions. Santander didnt believe they were at 
fault for the card not working but agreed Mr J hadnt been able to regularly use the card  so 
they offered him £100 a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service. He felt Santander 
should refund the cash purchases he had to make when he couldnt use his card - and the 
transaction charges he incurred on his debit card.
Our Investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr Js complaint. She said she couldnt see 
any of the issues Mr J had with his card were a result of an error which Santander were 
responsible for.
Mr J didnt agree. He said the problems using his card continued when he linked it to his 
phone- so it was an issue at Santanders end causing it to be declined. He said his debit 
card, with another bank, worked without any problems at the same places he was unable to 
use his credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.Both Mr J and Santander agree the chip on the card wasnt working, and that Mr J wasnt 
able to use the card regularly while he was on holiday. I think its most likely that this is one 
of the main causes of the issues Mr J experienced. I also dont think Santander can 
reasonably be held responsible for damage to a card once it has been sent to a customer. 
Ive thought about whether Santander are responsible for Mr Js inability to use the card and 
the service they gave him when he experienced issues. Looking at the transaction history for 
Mr Js card, I can see some transactions did go through, but some declined. 
Santander say they didnt apply any block to Mr Js account. I think the evidence supports 
this. Had a block been placed upon the account, Id expect all the attempted transactions to 
fail, not for there to be intermittent successful transactions as Mr J experienced. Santander 
say that on occasions when the chip couldnt be read, the merchants didnt always accept 
the magnetic strip as a fall-back option and that is why some of the transactions failed. They 
also say that some of the transactions were automatically flagged by their security team as 
they were unusual.
When Mr J contacted Santander, he was advised to add his card details to his mobile phone 
and to pay through that. I understand he also added his card to his wifes phone as well to 
try to resolve the issue. I know Mr J feels this was bad advice, as only a certain number of 
transactions can go through this method before chip and PIN must be used again. But Im 
satisfied that Santanders agent was just trying to suggest ways to assist Mr J in the 
circumstances. Some transactions were successful through that method, so I dont think this 
was inappropriate advice.  
Santander have obligations to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. Its understandable that Mr J made multiple attempts to pay (when his card 
declined in a particular merchant) and that he followed the advice and added his card to 
more than one phone. But I can also understand how these actions, in combination with 
being abroad at the time, and being used without chip and PIN were also caught by 
Santanders security systems. 
I understand the impact this had on Mr J and how being unable to use this card meant his 
holiday (which was for a special occasion) was restricted. I also understand his debit card 
from another bank worked without any issues. But I can only comment on the actions of 
Santander in this decision. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the transactions declined as a result of Santanders error or that 
theyve treated Mr J unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint. I have no evidence to 
conflict what theyve said about the way certain merchants processed transactions, and I 
think its reasonable for Santander to decline transactions that their systems identify as 
unusual or out of character. There is obviously a balance to be found, but these systems 
exist to protect their customers accounts.  I cant fairly ask them to reimburse the spending 
Mr J made on his holiday, as this is an expense he would always have been responsible for. 
And I think the £100 offered as a gesture of goodwill is fair in the circumstances. So Im not 
going to tell Santander to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr J's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Michael BarontiOmbudsman