DRN-3691034
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc didnt provide documents to release the charge after 
she repaid her mortgage. She asks that this is provided and for compensation for the time 
she spent chasing TSB.
What happened
Miss M sold her property and repaid her mortgage in November 2021. She says she sent the 
necessary discharge documents to TSB in November 2021. Miss M says she sent reminders 
to TSB in December 2021, February 2022 and April 2022 asking it to return the documents 
to release the charge. Miss M says the delay caused difficulties for her purchaser.
TSB did respond in April 2022, after Miss M contacted it by phone. It said it didnt receive her 
previous letters. It arranged for Miss M to send the discharge documents, which it actioned 
and returned. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence that TSB received the first three letters, and 
Miss M could have tried to contact it a different way when she didnt get a response. Our 
investigator said TSB acted promptly when Miss M contacted it in April 2022. 
Miss M didnt agree saying in summary:
She didnt accept that TSB didnt receive any of her letters. She says its not fair to say 
she could have contacted TSB by other means, as this suggests shes in the wrong.
She wrote, faxed and called TSB from her office in April 2022. It didnt return her call 
within 48 hours as promised. If (as it claimed) it had tried her home number it shouldnt 
have done so when shed asked it to call her office. 
TSB knows documents to release the charge are required and should provide this 
without being asked, and it shouldnt take five months
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB says for properties like Miss Ms it requires the solicitor to provide the discharge 
documents for it to action and return. Miss M says she sent the documents to TSB for it to 
remove the charge in November 2021, after repaying the mortgage. 
TSB says it didnt receive the documents or Miss Ms letters sent in November 2021, 
December 2021 and February 2022. Miss M says she was under pressure to provide the 
discharge documents to the purchasers solicitor, and I can understand she was frustrated 
not to get a response to her letters.
When Miss M didnt get a response from TSB she might have considered whether the letters 
had gone astray and whether it would help matters if she contacted TSB in another way. Im 
not saying that Miss M was in the wrong by not doing so. But I cant fairly find that TSB made 
an error in not responding to letters that it didnt receive.
Miss M called TSB on 13 April 2022. TSB said it would call her back within 48 hours to 
discuss her complaint. TSB says it tried to call Miss M and provided its notes of the 
attempted calls. Miss M disputes this and says she didnt receive a call or have a record of a 
missed call. Either way, TSB sent a final response on 20 April 2022, which Miss M says she 
received on 3 May 2022. This gave Miss M an email address to send a copy of the 
documents so that it could expedite matters.
Miss M provided the discharge documents, which TSB actioned and returned on 11 May 
2022.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, and so we cant look into it. I can consider how 
a complaint was dealt with if it impacted on resolving the underlying problem  here, 
returning the documents to remove its charge to Miss M. I dont think that was the case here. 
Overall, I think TSB responded fairly and promptly when Miss M contacted it in April 2022. I 
dont think I can fairly require TSB to pay compensation for not responding to letters it didnt 
receive. And I dont think any inconvenience caused by it not successfully contacting Miss M 
by phone in April 2022 makes it fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman