DRN-2730382
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with a claim under his 
commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020, whilst parking his van, Mr T came into contact with a third-party car parked in 
front of him. The third-party subsequently submitted a claim for damage they say was 
caused by the impact. 
Mr T doesnt deny there was an impact. However, he refutes the allegation that there was 
any damage caused by the impact and he says the third party has submitted a fraudulent 
claim.
Ageas sent an expert to inspect both vehicles. And based on what the expert said, it decided 
to pay the claim. This in turn means that Mr T now has a fault claim on his record which is 
impacting his no claims discount and the cost of his insurance premiums. 
Mr T was very unhappy with this and he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at Mr Ts complaint and advised that based on the evidence provided, Ageas had 
made a fair and reasonable decision by paying the claim.
But Mr T remains unhappy, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I must reassure Mr T that I thoroughly understand how strongly he feels about this
matter. I understand why he feels this was a fraudulent claim and I appreciate how infuriating 
and wrong Mr T believes the settlement of the third partys claim is.
However, it is Ageas which holds the risk here, on legal costs (both its own and the other
drivers), should the matter go to court and on the risk that the third party might have got a
higher award, by taking it to court. Mr T holds none of that risk at all, because under his
motor policy Ageas indemnifies him against any claim. Mr Ts risk is merely potentially 
having his no claims discount (NCD) reduced and having a fault claim on his insurance 
record. Thus, in all likelihood increasing his motor insurance premiums going forward.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a clause which allows the insurer to takeover, 
defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And Ageass policy is no 
different. It says, the insurer is entitled under this policy to take over and conduct the 
defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in the name of any other person 
insured by your policy. When anyone buys a policy, they are agreeing to this term. 
My role and that of this service isnt to decide whether this other drivers claim was 
fraudulent, or indeed to decide whose fault the accident was. Thats a matter for a court of 
law to decide and this service isnt a court of law, its an informal dispute resolution service 
for disputes between consumers and financial products providers. Also, this service is 
unable to punish or fine insurers as we are not the regulators, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. So, my role here is to see if Ageas applied this term to the claim 
circumstances fairly and reasonably.
Mr T says there were numerous damaged areas on the bumper. He says that for his vehicle 
to have caused such damage there must have been quite a bang. He says his van shouldve 
been stuck under the third-party vehicle to cause such extensive damage, which it wasnt.  
Hes identified 12 other areas of damage on the bumper, and hes questioned the third-party 
statement about the previous damage. He says the only witness was the third-partys 
daughter, and that the third-partys husband tried to intimidate him when he arrived on the 
scene after the incident. 
So that it could deal with this claim, Ageas sought incident details from both parties. And I 
can see that Mr T has admitted touching the third-party vehicle when he says: I was 
moving my van very slowly - some 0.5 inch/second or slower  and stopped as soon as I 
sensed the vehicles touch. 
Because there was an impact between both parties, Ageas asked for both vehicles to be 
inspected. The notes in the Audatex report from the third-party vehicle say; the damage to 
the rear bumper is on the textured section. The third party advised me the insured admitted 
to making contact with the third-party vehicle, and there were also witnesses to the incident. 
There is also a third-party engineers report. And this says: even if some of the damage was 
already present, the bumper would still require replacement, as its a one-piece bumper with 
all of the damage in the textured area.  So, Ageas asked its engineer further information in 
the form of a consistency report. This says: I have inspected both vehicles and there are 
various areas on damage to both of the bumpers. The insured advised be that he did make 
contact with the third-party vehicle, and this was confirmed by the third parties husband. In 
my opinion there appeared to be several different areas of damage to the textured section of 
the rear bumper and a broken rear fog lamp. I have complied an estimate for a replacement 
rear bumper and fog lamp based on our solution centre rates. As there appears to be 
several different areas of damage I would recommend a cash settlement of the claim. 
So, the decision that Ageas had to make was whether, based on this evidence it could refute 
the claim strongly enough that if the matter were to go to court, it would win. And Ageas was 
of the view, based on the evidence provided that it was more likely it would lose. Ageas like 
all other motor insurers is required to adhere to varying pre-action protocols to sensibly settle 
cases without wasting the courts time in situations where there is no reasonable chance of 
success. Failure to do this increases the amount of legal costs a successful party could 
claim from the unsuccessful party. And as I explained above only Ageas was at risk of these 
types of costs too, not Mr T. So, I can see why Ageas made the decision it did, based on the 
facts of the case and the evidence provided.
If Ageas had not instructed an independent consultant engineer to inspect Mr Ts car and 
carried out a consistency analysis with the other drivers vehicle damage, my decision might 
have been different. But it did. And it showed a consistency between the damaged caused 
and the circumstances of the incident. And since Mr T admitted impacting the third-party 
vehicle, theres nothing to show me that Ageas made the wrong decision to settle the third-
party claim.I sympathise with Mr T, as hes clearly aggrieved by what happened and he clearly doesnt 
agree with the outcome. But as Ive said above its not my role nor the role of this service to 
decide if a claim was fraudulent or to decide who was at fault. My role is solely to assess if 
Ageas adhered to the terms of its policy in dealing with this matter. And I consider it did, so I 
wont be asking Ageas to do anything more. 
In his reply to the investigators opinion, Mr T mentioned the damage to his door, which he 
alleges was caused by the third-partys husband during an interaction after the incident. Hes 
questioned why he should have to deal with this damage. I note that Mr T did mention this 
before, and I also note Ageas hasnt mentioned it at all. But this alleged damage doesnt 
form part of the incident in question, as its deemed separate to the claim being complained 
about. As its not part of the actual claim in question its not something I can comment on in 
this complaint against Ageas.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman