DRN-4025796
The complaint
Mr D complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of the renewal of his car 
insurance policy.
All references to UKI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D says he only received one of the emails UKI sent. UKI have provided screen 
shots to show the letters and text messages were sent  and the details it has on 
system match those Mr D has provided our service. So, although Mr D says he didnt 
receive some of UKIs correspondence, Im satisfied it was sent.
During the most recent renewal UKI said it migrated systems and there was an issue 
with Mr Ds payment details which meant the policy reverted to being a manual 
renewal. 
The emails and messages UKI sent Mr D informs him to contact it by a specific date 
if he wanted to renew his policy, and that it would end if he hadnt. But as the policy 
had always renewed automatically, and there was no indication this had changed, Im 
not persuaded this alone would be enough to inform Mr D something had changed, 
and he needed to act.
UKI said it cannot call every customer directly, which is why it sends renewal invites.  
I accept this; however, Mr D had a policy with UKI for several years, and until the 
most recent renewal, the policy always updated automatically. Considering this is a 
significant change I would have reasonably expected UKI to have done more to bring 
this to his attention. Either by separate correspondence, or for it to be made clear in 
its renewal invites the policy would no longer automatically renew.
Mr D later discovered he was driving without insurance as his policy was no longer in 
place.  As a result, Mr D has been given six penalty points on his licence for driving 
without insurance. Considering the impact matters have had on him I think the 
amount of compensation recommended by our investigator, £500, is correct in 
recognising the distress and inconvenience Mr D has been in caused in the 
circumstances. 
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I direct UKI to provide a letter of indemnity to Mr D. UKI will be entitled to 
retrospectively calculate the premiums Mr D would have had to pay while on cover during 
the time from the policy lapsing to the date Mr D obtained cover elsewhere.
UKI should also pay Mr D £500 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
To put things right I direct U K Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman