DRN-3116362
The complaint
Mr G complains about a credit card account he has with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
In 2001, Mr G took out a credit card account with Lloyds. Mr G says that in recent years, the 
credit card has always been within the agreed credit limit and he has been making at least 
the minimum repayment amount each month. Mr G also added that he has sometimes made 
more than the minimum repayment and in November 2020 he made a lump sum payment to 
the account of £2,000 to reduce the outstanding balance. 
Despite this, In February 2021, Lloyds made Mr Gs credit card account repayment only  
which means it stopped the card from being used for any spending. Mr G says that Lloyds 
insisted on him making repayments to the account that were more than the monthly 
minimum due. Mr G is unhappy with this as he feels as though Lloyds request to ask him to 
pay more each month breaches the terms and conditions of his account. 
Lloyds say that Mr G had been paying more in interest, fees and charges than he had repaid 
off his balance in the last 18 months. Because of this, Mr Gs account met the criteria for 
being in persistent debt. Lloyds also explained that it needed to intervene to provide 
additional support because Mr G was still in persistent debt after a further 18 months  so 36 
months in total.
Lloyds say it contacted Mr G in March 2020 to let him know that in order to keep his account 
open, he would need to make monthly repayments of the recommended payment amount. 
It said that it contacted him again because in August 2020, October 2020, January 2021 and 
February 2021, Mr G didnt meet the recommended payment amounts, so his account was 
blocked on 26 February 2021 and the spending facility on the account was withdrawn. 
Lloyds say it blocked the account because allowing Mr G to continue to spend on the 
account would have made it more difficult for him to repay the balance. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G, but they didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly. They explained that Lloyds had a duty to identify where consumers may be in 
persistent debt, and that businesses, like Lloyds, are required to take steps to help 
customers break the cycle of persistent debt and ensure those who cant afford to repay 
more quickly are given help. The investigator found that Lloyds had sent Mr G letters 
explaining what he needed to do to ensure that his account remained open. But because Mr 
G didnt make the recommended repayment amount each month, it was fair of Lloyds to put 
a stop on any further spending on the account.
Mr G responded to our investigators view to say he didnt agree. Mr G explained that he felt 
as though Lloyds had gone against the original terms and conditions of the account by not 
allowing him to continue to make the monthly minimum repayment and allow him the use of 
his card.
Because Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him, but I will explain my 
reasoning for this below. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who are the regulator, considers that an account is 
in a state of persistent debt if the level of interest which accrues on that account is such that 
the monthly payments made by the customer towards that account result in the customer 
paying more in interest and charges than they do towards paying off the capital balance on 
the account, over a prolonged period. 
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum payment 
required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying the monthly interest that 
accrues but making little progress towards reducing the capital balance outstanding on the 
account - meaning that monthly interest payments at a similar level keep becoming due. 
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such a situation for credit account 
holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must manage accounts 
that are considered as being in a state of persistent debt. 
These rules came into force in March 2018 and placed requirements on credit providers 
such as Lloyds. The rules said they had to send letters to customers in persistent debt, 
explaining what this meant, and the monthly payment that now needed to be made to 
remove the account from being in persistent debt.
This was important, because there are potential consequences to being in persistent debt for 
an extended period of time. So, the letters also needed to explain if the account stayed in 
persistent debt, the credit provider could stop their customer from spending on the account. 
They could also initiate a repayment plan designed to clear the outstanding balance over a 
period of no more than four years. But these actions would only apply in certain 
circumstances.
The rules and guidance about persistent debt are not set by Lloyds but by the regulator- the 
FCA. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds doesnt have a choice in the matter and must follow those 
rules and guidance. 
Mr Gs account fell into the remit of being in persistent debt. And so Lloyds was required to 
contact Mr G, which I can see it did do. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us an actual copy of the letters it sent to Mr G, but it has sent 
me a sample of what it would have sent to him. Im satisfied that this is likely to be similar to, 
if not the same, as the letters Mr G received. 
All of the letters explained that Mr G should start to make the recommended payment 
amount in order to reduce the balance of his account in a more sustainable way. The letters 
also explained that Lloyds may stop the use of the card if the recommended payment 
amount isnt met.I can see that Mr G didnt make the recommended payment amount on a number of 
occasions in 2020 and in January 2021. And so Lloyds wrote to Mr G to say that it would 
suspend his account  and essentially stop any additional spending on the card.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Lloyds fairly communicated with Mr G about what he was 
required to do to keep the spending facility on the account. I can see that Mr G didnt always 
make the recommended repayment amount and so Lloyds followed the actions it outlined in 
its letters and suspended the account from further spending activity. I dont find this to be 
unfair, and I think the actions it took are in line with the rules set out by the FCA.
I have seen that Mr G had made a lump sum payment to the account. But Lloyds still 
required him to make the recommended repayment each month, so it didnt get into a 
position of persistent debt. I can see that the recommended amount was on Mr Gs monthly 
statement, so I think it likely he would have been aware that hed still need to make 
increased monthly payments, even after hed paid a lump sum off the balance. But Mr G 
didnt do this. So again, I dont feel Lloyds acted unreasonably by suspending the card.
Mr G says that Lloyds has gone against the original terms and conditions he agreed to when 
asking him to pay more than the minimum amount due. But looking at the terms and 
conditions that applied to his account, they say:
We may have to make changes to your agreement if a regulator requires us to treat certain 
customers such as those with longstanding debt, including customers in or at risk of falling 
into persistent debt, in a particular way.
And it states:
We may increase your minimum payment by changing the calculation in Section A7 if we 
consider that you are in persistent debt, or at risk of falling into persistent debt, where we 
consider it to be fair and reasonable to do so. This will enable you to reduce the amount of 
interest you will pay on your account and the time it takes you to clear your balance. 
Persistent debt means that over an 18-month period you have paid more in interest and 
charges than you have paid off of your main credit card balance.
Im satisfied the terms and conditions did state what would happen if his account fell into a 
persistent debt cycle. These might not have been the original terms and conditions Mr G 
agreed to when he first took out the account, however Lloyds can change terms and 
conditions from time to time. Lloyds had to take into account the rules set by the FCA -it 
cant disregard these or choose not to follow them. 
So based on everything Ive said, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. And I dont think that 
Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably when suspending the spending facility on his 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman