DRN-4358086
The complaint
Mr S complains about a money transfer promotion on his Lloyds Bank PLC credit card. 
What happened
Mr S has a credit card with Lloyds and has told that he used it for regular spending. Mr S has 
explained that in January 2023 he received an email from Lloyds that said he could take a 
money transfer at 0% interest for 15 months. Mr S went on to take a £7,500 money transfer 
from his credit card and Lloyds applied a 3.5% fee. 
Mr S continued to use his credit card for regular spending. But Mr S made payments to 
cover the regular spending and clear it each month. Mr S noticed he had been charged 
interest in his March, April and May 2023 credit card statements and contacted Lloyds. Mr S 
went on to raise a complaint about the way interest is applied to the credit card. 
Lloyds issued a final response on 23 May 2023 and explained that whilst funds taken as a 
money transfer were charged at 0%, when purchases are made interest would become due 
on the full outstanding balance if it wasnt cleared. Lloyds confirmed it had administered Mr 
S credit card in line with the terms and conditions. Lloyds agreed to refund the interest Mr S 
had paid and moved around £2,000 of the purchase balance onto the 0% money transfer 
offer. Lloyds explained that if Mr S decided to make any further retail purchases the standard 
rate of interest would be applied and that the balance would have to be cleared in full to 
avoid paying it. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr S 
asked to appeal and said his key concern remained that Lloyds was aware that he used his 
credit card for regular spending but had sent him a money transfer offer that wasnt suitable 
for his account use. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can see the investigator set out the relevant sections of Lloyds terms and conditions within 
their view of Mr S complaint. The terms confirm that Lloyds calculates interest daily on the 
total amount owed and that no interest will be charged on purchases if the full balance 
(including any balance transfers and money transfers) is repaid by the due date given in the 
previous statement. Ive looked at Mr S credit card statements and Im satisfied the interest 
applied was in line with the terms. 
In response to the investigator, Mr S explained that he had historically used his credit card 
for purchases and that by taking Lloyds up on its money transfer offer it meant he was no 
longer able to use his account in the same way. Mr S said Lloyds knew how he used his 
credit card but had still sent him an offer that wasnt suitable for him. I take Mr S point but I 
think it was for Lloyds to send him the details of the offers it had available and for him to 
decide whether they were suitable for his circumstances.
Ive looked at the information available that sets out how the money transfer offer worked 
and the way interest is applied to Mr S credit card. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im 
satisfied Lloyds has explained how the money transfer offer would work and how interest is 
applied. I havent been persuaded Lloyds misled Mr S. 
Lloyds accepted Mr S didnt fully understand the implications of proceeding with the money 
transfer offer and refunded the interest he incurred and moved £2,000 of the purchase 
balance to the money transfer promotion. That meant the interest Mr S had unexpectedly 
incurred was refunded. Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve Mr S complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as I havent found that Lloyds made a mistake and Im 
satisfied it agreed a fair settlement Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman