DRN-3453602
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by PSA Finance UK Limited 
following the return of her car.
What happened
In March 2016, Miss F was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA. Towards the end of the agreement, Miss F contacted PSA and she said they told her 
shed paid more than 50% owing under the agreement, so she was able to voluntarily 
terminate (VT). Based on this advice, Miss F ordered a new car. However, when Miss F 
asked PSA to VT, she says she was told she hadnt paid enough to be able to do this. And a 
further payment would be required.
Miss F wasnt happy with this and PSA told her theyd made an error. And that she was 
eligible to VT. But Miss F says this error delayed the VT process, and it took a further six 
weeks before the car was collected. Following collection, Miss F was charged for damage 
and excess mileage. She disagreed with the charges, and she said shed also had to pay 
£1,050 for the car to be stored while it was awaiting collection. PSA thought the charges 
were fair, and Miss F brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, under the agreement Miss F signed, PSA are entitled to charge 
for damage to the car that falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines issued by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). And he thought that most of the 
damage to the car fell outside of these guidelines. But he didnt think that the dents to the 
LHR door and LH quarter panel were supported by the evidence hed seen. So, he didnt 
think PSA acted fairly by charging for this.
The investigator also said PSA werent responsible for the storage fees, and theyd agreed 
to waive the excess mileage charge, so they didnt need to do anything more about this.
PSA didnt agree with the investigator. They said that, due to the time elapsed, it was no 
longer possible to download the photographs from the inspection report in order to review 
the damage up close. But they thought it was reasonable to trust the integrity of the 
inspection agent. So, they didnt agree with the removal of the charges.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2022, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss F was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Miss F has raised the issue about being misinformed by PSA about the VT with us, but I 
havent seen that she raised this with PSA. And the investigator explained that, because of 
this, it wasnt something we were able to investigate. Whats more, PSA have waived the 
excess mileage charges, and Miss F has accepted this. As such, my decision will 
concentrate on the damage to the car and the storage charges.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Miss F signed. This clearly says she was required to 
keep the vehicle in good condition. It also detailed what was and wasnt acceptable for the 
car to be deemed in good condition for the purposes of this agreement  and that Miss F 
would be solely liable for any loss or damage to the vehicle even if the vehicle is the 
responsibility of a third party. So, Im satisfied that Miss F wouldve been reasonably aware 
of her obligations under the agreement.
Ive also seen a copy of the collection agents inspection report, dated 20 August 2018. This 
details chargeable damage to the front wheel trim, the LHR door, the LH quarter panel, and 
the interior carpet. It also shows that the car was returned in a condition that an exterior valet 
was required.
While Miss F was originally charged £1,039.32 for the damage to the car, and for missing 
documentation; the £386.66 for the missing documents charge was waived as these were 
received after the inspection had taken place. PSA also removed the charge for the broken 
wheel trim and the valet as a gesture of goodwill. PSA further reduced the costs of the 
damage to the carpet by 50%, and the dents to the bodywork by 25%. 
carpet
The agreement says that torn parts that can easily be sewn and become invisible are 
normal; otherwise invisible torn parts are abnormal. The BVRLA fair wear and tear 
guidelines say that carpets should not have holes. 
The photographs supplied with the inspection report clearly show a hole and tear in the 
interior carpet. And, while the tear may be able to be sewn and made invisible, this would not 
be possible with the hole. Because of this, Im satisfied this damage falls outside of the fair 
wear and tear guidelines, and PSA can charge for this.
dents
The agreement says that multiple dents in any one panel and any dent greater than 10 
millimetres in diameter on the bonnet, roof, or above the body moulding lines on the sides of 
the car is considered abnormal. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say that dents of 
15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and 
the paint surface is not broken.
The photographs supplied with the inspection report show the dents in the LHR door and LH 
quarter panel. Theres a black and white striped board thats used to reflect an image on the 
bodywork, and the reflection in both panels is distorted. Im satisfied that this distortion 
shows the presence of a dent.
The photographs also show the inspector holding a standard measuring tool against the 
dent, to show its size. The investigator has said that, because the measurements on the tool 
cant be clearly seen in the photographs, then its not possible to say how big the dent is. However, I disagree. This looks like a standard 100mm tool, and the dents in both panels 
are bigger than the tool. Whats more, the inspectors hand can be clearly seen in both 
photographs. And from this its obvious that the dents are greater than the 15mm allowable 
under the BVRLA guidelines. So, Im satisfied that this damage falls outside the fair wear 
and tear guidelines, and PSA acted reasonably by charging for this.
The agreement Miss F signed also says that she must keep the vehicle in her possession. 
But, in an email dated 11 February 2019, she explained that I had no other option but to 
leave my car at my place of work, to which was told if not collected sooner rather than later I 
would be charged. And, in the complaint she made to PSA, she indicated that the damage 
took place while the car was stored at her place of work and wasnt caused by her.
By storing the car at her work, without the permission of PSA, Miss F breached the 
agreement. But, as stated above, she remained responsible for the damage, even if it was 
caused by a third party. Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Miss F was 
charged anything for this storage, or that she had no alternative option to store the car here 
rather than, for example, at home or at a specialist car storage facility.
Because of this, I dont think PSA are responsible for any storage costs Miss F mayve 
incurred, and I dont think that where/how the damage was caused means that Miss F isnt 
liable for the costs resulting from this. So, I dont intend to ask PSA to do anything more.
Responses
Miss F queried my provisional decision, as she considered it had alot [sic] of jargon. The 
investigator clarified this in an email dated 28 March 2022, after hed been unsuccessful in 
trying to call her. And he asked her to let him know if she had any further questions. Miss F 
didnt respond to this email, even though an extended deadline was given for her to do so. 
From this, its reasonable to assume that Miss F had no further comments.
PSA didnt comment on the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive had no comments on my provisional decision, and because neither party have 
provided any additional evidence, my view remains unaltered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about PSA Finance UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman