DRN-3728366
The complaint
Miss L complains, with the help of a representative, that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax didnt do enough to prevent her becoming the victim of two scams  namely an 
investment scam and then a recovery scam  or help her when she reported the scams.
What happened
Miss L has two current accounts with Halifax, a debit card and a help to buy ISA and has 
been a customer for approximately four years. She has a current account elsewhere too 
which appears to be her main account.
In August 2020, Miss L made a number of debit card payments from her Halifax account to 
an account in her name with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. She says she made 
these payments because a third party had told her that they could help her trade 
cryptocurrency and make a significant profit. Miss L says she believed trading in 
cryptocurrency would allow her to save up enough money to be able to afford a deposit for a 
house  she was already paying into her ISA with this in mind. She made a number of debit 
card payments from her current account elsewhere to this cryptocurrency account too.
Miss L says she realised that shed fallen victim to an investment scam when she tried and 
failed to withdraw the money she was told shed made. In other words, she says the 
payments she made in August 2020 were part of the first scam she fell victim to  an 
investment scam.
Miss L says she then tried to recover her money and in January 2021 having failed to do so 
she contacted what she thought was a reputable law firm to get help recovering her money. 
Between April 2021 and July 2021 Miss L made three international payments totalling 
around £18,000 to the law firm in question. All of these payments were made from her 
Halifax accounts. She says she realised that shed fallen victim to a recovery scam  in other 
words, to a second scam  when the money shed been told shed recovered wasnt paid 
into her account and the law firms contact details no longer worked.
In August 2021, Miss L contacted Halifax to say she believed shed fallen victim to a 
recovery scam  in other words, she contacted Halifax about the second scam shed fallen 
victim to. Halifax says it started to take steps to recover her money, but she then asked 
Halifax to cancel the request it had sent as the law firm she was dealing with had said this 
would stop her recovering the money shed made. Halifax says it warned Miss L that this 
didnt sound right, and that she was likely being scammed a second time but it ultimately 
agreed to cancel the steps it had started taking to recover her money.
In November 2021, Miss L complained to Halifax once again to say shed fallen victim to two 
scams  in other words, the initial investment scam and the subsequent recovery scam. 
Halifax also looked into this for Miss L but wasnt able to recover any of her money. Miss L 
complained saying that Halifax should have warned her that the payments she was making 
might be scams and didnt do enough to protect her. Halifax didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong, so Miss L complained to us.
In November 2021, Miss L also contacted her other account provider to say she believed 
shed been the victim of an investment scam. Her other account provider looked into this for 
Miss L but said it wasnt able to recover any of her money. Miss L complained saying that 
her other account provider should have warned her that the payments she was making might 
be a scam and didnt do enough to protect her. Her other account provider didnt agree it had 
done anything wrong, so Miss L complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into both of Miss Ls complaints and said that there are no 
warnings about the people she dealt with on the FCAs and IOSCOs watchlists meaning 
that, though they didnt doubt Miss Ls version of events, they hadnt seen any evidence 
confirming that the first set of payments were part of an investment scam. More importantly, 
our investigator didnt think the transactions in relation to the investment scam were unusual 
compared to her normal account activity so didnt think either businesses should have 
identified them as suspicious. The transactions in relation to the investment scam were also 
to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. Because of this, the transactions in relation to the 
investment scam didnt automatically trigger any alerts  and our investigator didnt think 
they should have done  at either business and any chargebacks would have been 
unsuccessful. So, they didnt uphold either complaint in relation to the investment scam.
Our investigator did, however, think that the third payment Miss L had made as part of the 
recovery scam was unusual and that it should, therefore, have triggered an alert for Halifax. 
But our investigator thought that even if it had done so this wouldnt have made a difference. 
So, they didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint in relation to the recovery scam either.
Miss Ls representatives disagreed with our investigator saying that all of the payments she 
had made were unusual. They said that Halifax should have asked Miss L about the 
payments, and had it done so its likely that Halifax would have discovered that whilst Miss L 
was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency trader, the scammer was in the 
background advising her to do so, so that they could ultimately take her cryptocurrency and 
later that she was sending money to what she thought was a law firm helping her recover 
money lost to an investment scam but this was a second scam, and it would have provided 
appropriate scam warnings. They asked an ombudsman to consider the complaint, so thats 
what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L says shes fallen victim to two separate scams  an investment scam and a recovery 
scam. Im going to deal with each of them, and Im going to do so in turn.
the investment scam
In August 2020 Miss L received a message on social media from an individual claiming to 
work for a large trading company who said that they could help her make a substantial profit 
trading cryptocurrency. Miss L was saving to buy a house at the time. Miss L believed the 
opportunity was a legitimate one because of the number of followers, for example, the 
individual had and stories from other people saying theyd been able to make substantial 
profits. So, she started making payments to a cryptocurrency wallet in her name that shed 
been told would be used to trade. Miss Ls representatives say these payments were part of 
an investment scam.
At the time Miss L made her payments, banks were expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Miss Ls Halifaxs account. I dont think I can say  given 
the payments in question here  that Halifax unreasonably failed to intervene before 
executing Miss Ls instructions as far as the investment scam is concerned, or that it would 
be reasonable here to hold Halifax responsible for Miss Ls loss.
There is a balance to be struck here  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud 
and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. I think the payments in question here were of relatively low value when 
compared to Miss Ls normal account spend and they were not sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic to say that Halifax ought to have been concerned that Miss L could be at 
risk of financial harm. Ill explain why.
I can see that all of the payments Miss L made from her Halifax account in relation to the 
investment scam she says she fell victim to were between £100 and £300 and that they all 
went to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. Having looked at the statements for her Halifax 
account, I agree with our investigator that none of the payments were unusual. I agree, 
therefore, with our investigator that theres no reason why they should have triggered an 
alert. I should add that Im satisfied that Halifax called Miss L notwithstanding this when she 
was making one of these payments to check what it was for and was told that it was a 
payment to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. In the circumstances, I agree that there 
wasnt more Halifax should have done to prevent Miss L from falling victim to the investment 
scam or that there was more it could have done to recover any of the payments Miss L made 
as they were payments to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange.
the recovery scam
Halifaxs obligations as far as the payments Miss L made in relation to the recovery scam 
are the same as the ones Ive already outlined. That means one thing I have to think about is 
whether or not any of the three payments Miss L made were unusual.
Our investigator thought that only the third payment Miss L made to what she believed to be 
a reputable law firm was unusual. I agree. Im satisfied it was unusual for a couple of 
reasons  namely that it was for over £10,000 and it was an international payment. Miss L 
hadnt made payments as large as that before, and wasnt in the habit of making 
international payments. In the circumstances, I think Halifax should have asked Miss L 
questions about this payment  potentially pausing the payment until it had spoken to her 
and even asking her to come into branch. The next question I have to ask myself is would 
this have made a difference. Our investigator didnt think it would have and I agree. Ill 
explain why.
In August 2021 Miss L asked Halifax to take steps to recover the payments she sent to the 
law firm  at that point she suspected shed been scammed. I can see that Miss L then 
asked Halifax to cancel recovery action it started because the law firm she was dealing with 
had said this would stop her recovering the money shed made. That was despite Halifax 
warning Miss L that this didnt sound right, and that the payments shed made were likely 
part of a second scam. I can understand why Miss L did this  she was desperate to recover 
the money shed lost from the investment scam  and so didnt want to do anything that 
might jeopardise that. I believe she would have reacted the same way had Halifax given her 
a scam warning when she tried to make the third payment. In other words, I agree with our 
investigator that even if Halifax had identified the third payment as unusual and questioned 
Miss L and given her an appropriate scam warning, she would more likely than not have still 
gone ahead with the payment. In the circumstances, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have done more to prevent Miss L from falling victim to the recovery scam. It follows that I 
agree that it wouldnt be fair on Halifax to uphold this complaint.
I can see that Halifax tried to recover the payments  it used its best endeavours to do so. 
As these were international payments, thats what I would have expected it to do.
I agree, given the above, that it wouldnt be fair to have expected Halifax to do more in this 
particular case. I accept that Miss L appears to have been the victim of an unkind scam. But 
in this case I dont think its fair to say that Halifax should refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman