DRN-3208674
The complaint
Mr C complains that Teachers' Building Society (TBS) has wrongly calculated the interest 
on his cash ISA held with it. He says that TBS treated the year April 2020 to April 2021 as a 
leap year, but it wasnt.
What happened
Mr C said that he didnt think the interest on his savings had been calculated properly. He
said TBS had sent him a calculation, and it had accepted that he was owed a few pence, but
he said those calculations didnt make sense.
Mr C said TBS had worked out the interest for April 2019 to April 2020 as a leap year, which
it was. But then TBS had done the same thing again for the next year, and worked out
interest from April 2020 to April 2021 based on that year being a leap year. Mr C said that
the second of these wasnt a leap year, and he couldnt understand TBSs reasoning.
Mr C wanted TBS to adjust the interest hed been paid, but also to accept that it had got
something wrong. He said TBS hadnt really listened to him. And he said that if they are
doing that to all their customers then this amounts to a lot.
Mr C showed us a final response letter from TBS, which showed that it had worked out the 
year from April 2019 to April 2020 on the basis of 366 days, but also said that it had used a 
calculation of 366 days for the next year, April 2020 to April 2021.
The interest calculation that TBS set out was as follows 
For the financial year containing a leap year, 6 April 2019 to 5 April 2020, taking the balance
of Mr Cs account, multiplied by the interest rate, then dividing by 365 (days in a year) and
multiplying by 366 (days the payment applied to).
Or in other words, interest for a leap year is calculated like this 
Balance x interest rate  365 x 366.
But when calculating interest for 6 April 2020 to 5 April 2021, the interest rate varied over the
year. In that year, TBS had taken Mr Cs balance, multiplied by the relevant interest rate,
then divided by 366 (not the number of days in that year, because the leap year fell in the
previous year) then multiplied by the number of days this applied to (for four separate
periods, which totalled up to 365 days).
If we simplify this to work over the whole year, it works out like this 
Balance x interest rate  366 x 365
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Ive not reproduced her
reasoning here, as I havent adopted it.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think wed looked at the key issues. He said that in a time when
interest rates are historically low, he didnt want to lose out again because of how TBS was
working this interest out. He said that the calculation for April 2019 to April 2020 was fine,
but he objected to what TBS did for the next year, April 2020 to April 2021. He said that what
TBS does reduces the interest being paid and negates the previous years leap year
advantage. So he said that overall, he wasnt paid any interest for 29 February 2020, when
viewed over the two year period.
Mr C set out a calculation for us, where he said that if we took a notional investment of
£10,000, we could see the effect of this 
Investment £10,000 x 5% divided by 365 days x 366 days = £501.37 in a leap year.
But the following year, it would pay this 
Investment £10,000 x 5% divided by 366 days x 365 days = £498.63 in the next year.
So he said that we could see TBS had clawed back any credit interest previously provided in
the leap year, which meant there was no additional payment for the extra day in that year.
Mr C wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to us, I sought more information from TBS about how it 
calculates interest. After some confusion on this point, TBS has confirmed that the 
calculation it set out in its letter to Mr C is right.
I do think this has the potential to affect interest paid to some customers of TBS, but 
not in the way that Mr C suggested. Before I explain why I think that, I should set out 
that TBS has accepted this in principle. It doesnt think Mr C was affected by this, but 
it has accepted there is potential for either advantage or disadvantage, particularly if 
someone opens or closes their account at particular points. I think there is also 
potential for either advantage or disadvantage if interest rates change, because its 
possible for a customer to gain more or less in the leap year, or lose more or less in 
the following year.
Our service isnt a regulator. So I cannot direct TBS to set this right for everyone. I 
can only look at what has already happened, and I can only look at Mr Cs case. But 
Mr C might like to know that TBS says that it is taking this issue seriously, and it 
expects to have this problem resolved for all of its customers before the next leap 
year.
Now Ill turn to whats happened to Mr C.
He says that TBS pays more in the leap year, then claws that back in the following 
year, so he doesnt get any advantage from the extra day in the leap year. But I 
wouldnt expect him to get a larger interest payment overall, in a leap year.
Interest on Mr Cs account may be broken down into daily payments, but its awarded 
overall on a per annum basis. So what I would expect, on an account paying 1% 
interest, is that Mr C would earn the same 1% of his investment, per year, whether 
its a leap year or not.Because there are more days in a leap year, the daily award of interest will just be a 
little smaller.
We know, though, that this isnt what TBS does. It calculates daily interest as Mr C 
himself set out. It divides by 365 days in the financial year that includes 29 February. 
Then it multiplies any earnings by the number of days in that year, which is 366. So 
the effect of this is that TBS does pay very slightly more interest in a leap year.
Then TBS does, as Mr C says, claw that back. It calculates daily interest in the 
following year (the financial year following the 29 February) by dividing by 366 days. 
Then it multiplies any earnings by the number of days in that year, which is 365. So it 
does pay very slightly less interest in a leap year.
Mr C says this means anything he gains in a leap year is clawed back in the following 
year. I think thats right. But as I dont think TBS had to pay more interest in the leap 
year in the first place (for the reasons Ive explained above) I dont think its wrong in 
theory for TBS to claw that back in the following year.
But, as TBS appreciates, this pay a bit more in the leap year, claw a bit back in the 
next year approach isnt always a cost neutral exercise. If someone opens an 
account in the financial year following a leap year, they get less interest in that year. 
And if interest rates change, as they did in the years Mr C has drawn our attention to, 
then TBS can end up clawing back more, or less, than it paid in the leap year.
I think that Mr C was affected by this, but I think its actually worked here to his 
advantage. The interest rate overall on his account was higher in the leap year (when 
TBS overpays) than it was in the following year (when TBS claws back). So I think 
hes in fact marginally better off because of what TBS has done.
For that reason, I dont think TBS has to pay Mr C any missed interest.
I do think, though, that Mr C has pointed out a flaw in TBSs method for paying 
interest, and told it he was worried about how his own interest had been calculated. 
And TBS initially denied that this could be an issue. Because of that, he had to bring 
his complaint to our service, before he could find out that he isnt, in fact, any worse 
off, but that there is an issue which TBS is aware of, and it is acting to put it right.
That has obviously put Mr C to some trouble. For that I think TBS should pay Mr C 
£100 in compensation.
I think this, plus the knowledge Mr C now has that TBS is aware of the issue and is 
working to put it right, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint Mr C 
has made.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TBS said it didnt have any final points to make or any additional information to provide in 
respect of this case.
Mr C didnt agree. He wanted to draw attention to the comments Id made in my provisional 
decision, about TBS not having to pay more interest in a leap year. He said I had ignored the 
existence of a leap year, and only recognise the standard annual 365 days year, meaning 
that no credit interest was provided for the addition day that a leap year contains. 
Mr C said he disagreed with this, as referencing all transactions to a traditional annual 
approach form doesnt cater for changes in the amount invested during the year. And Mr C 
said TBS does recognise a leap year's existence, but follows an odd practice of retrieving 
any advantage in the form of a clawback process that follows. This is misleading.
The sections of my decision that Mr C quoted dont seem to me to include a key part of my 
decision. 
The first key point is that interest on this account is awarded on an annual basis. Not daily. 
So, assuming the interest rate remains the same, I would not expect TBS to pay more 
interest in a leap year than it does in the previous or next year. We know that TBS has 
chosen to overpay in a leap year. But I dont think it has to do this. 
And the second key point is that this interest is still paid on a daily basis. So allowance can 
be made for any change in the investment amount. But, as interest is based on a yearly rate, 
I would expect that amount to be divided by the number of days in a year. In an ordinary 
year, Id expect interest to be divided by 365 days. In a leap year, by 366. 
Its not, as Mr C suggests, that when a leap year rolls around, there is no payment of interest 
for 29 February. Its just that, because there is one more day in a leap year, the daily award 
of interest will be very slightly smaller.
TBS has chosen to calculate things differently. And in Mr Cs case, the outcome has been 
slightly more generous. However, TBS recognises that this is not always the case, so it is 
making changes for the future. 
I do recognise that the explanations provided by TBS have been confusing, and Mr C has 
spent some time to bring this case to a resolution. Thats why I thought it should pay Mr C 
£100 now.
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Teachers' Building Society must pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman