DRN-3067750
The complaint
Miss J complains about her credit card account with Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide).
What happened
In March 2020, Miss J changed the bank account that paid her credit card account. Miss J 
says that when the next payment was taken, the full balance of the card was taken instead 
of the lower regular payment she had set up. The result was her bank account going around 
£4,500 into an overdraft. 
Miss J says that Nationwide originally told her it wasnt its error and she went into the branch 
to be told the same thing. So, she logged a complaint with the bank. Nationwide looked into 
the complaint and upheld it. It said one of its advisors had keyed the amount in incorrectly 
when changing her account details and it offered £150 for the inconvenience. It also offered 
to pay any overdraft charges that were a result of the error. Miss J also made Nationwide 
aware of a payment to another credit card that didnt get paid, so Nationwide provided a 
letter to show the error was made by the bank. 
Miss J didnt think the amount Nationwide offered covered the distress and inconvenience 
she had suffered, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he found Nationwide had paid a fair amount in 
compensation for its mistake. Whilst our investigator had the complaint, Miss J did respond 
to say that a missed payment marker was still showing on her Nationwide account when she 
checked her credit report. Miss J went on to say that she was paying monthly interest on 
another credit card and she couldnt apply for a new one to transfer the balance whilst the 
marker was showing. Miss J asked for the interest she had paid on her third-party credit card 
from the start of the complaint up to this point to be refunded. 
Our investigator went back to Nationwide and highlighted the marker still on Miss Js credit 
report. He also felt Nationwide should add an additional £100 in compensation for the fact it 
was still showing. 
Nationwide looked into the issue and found it had made a further mistake. It arranged for the 
marker to be removed and agreed to make the increased payment  taking the total 
compensation amount to £250. 
Miss J still felt the amount offered wasnt enough, so the complaints been passed to me to 
issue a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2021. This is what I said
There is no question that Nationwide have made several errors here, and it has 
acknowledged them in each of the responses it has given our service. So, I dont find I need 
to fully investigate what happened in the circumstances of this complaint  as I think both 
parties know. 
But I have investigated the award offered and Ive come to the decision that it should be 
increased. Ill explain why. 
Having considered the award Nationwide have offered so far, I do find this fairly 
compensates Miss J for the fact she needed to visit a branch on four occasions. Im also 
satisfied this amount covers the delay in finding out what the issue was, the initial distress 
and inconvenience of finding out she was taken into an overdraft, and that other payments 
would be missed because of it.
What I dont think the award covers fairly is the length of time the errors have taken to 
correct. In total Miss J has had a missed payment marker on her account for around seven 
months. In that time, she has evidenced that she has been paying interest on another credit 
card. Although as our investigator has rightly pointed out, we cant be certain she wouldve 
qualified for another credit card to transfer her balance to  I do find that opportunity has 
been taken away from her to try. 
Miss J has sensibly waited to apply for further cards until the marker has been removed. I 
can understand why she would do this, and Im persuaded that she had no other reason to 
do this apart Nationwides error. Miss J has also evidenced that a lot of the cards that 
wouldve been available to her to apply for have been withdrawn. 
Having considered what Ive said above, Im persuaded that Miss Js compensation amount 
should be increased by a further £150. This would bring the total to £400 plus any overdraft 
interest she can evidence. This is to compensate Miss J for the length of time the overall 
number of errors have taken to resolve, and for the missed opportunity to apply for a new 
credit card sooner. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide agreed to increase the compensation amount to a total of £400.
Miss J still didnt think the amount had been increased enough but provided no further points 
that hadnt already been considered. 
As neither party has given me any information that changes my decision, my outcome 
remains the same. 
My final decision
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Miss J a total of £400 plus any overdraft 
charges she provides evidence of.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman