DRN-3621340
The complaint
Ms A and Ms S complain that Ms A was added to a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (CB) as a joint hirer, without her 
knowledge. 
What happened
Ms A attended the dealership with Ms S in January 2022 so that Ms S could acquire a car. 
Ms A says she went with Ms S because she held a provisional licence, and Ms A held a full 
licence, so she agreed to accompany her so that Ms S could legally drive the car home. 
Ms A says Ms S test drove the car whilst she sat in the backseat, and the transaction to 
enter into the agreement then took place in the car on the dealers mobile phone. 
Ms A said she wasnt given any paperwork but was asked to provide some information and 
sign a document. Ms A says she questioned this and was told by Ms S it was because she 
had a full licence, and the dealer said it would be in her name. Ms A said she hadnt really 
listened to the conversation that took place between the dealer and Ms S, but she thought 
she was only there to accompany Ms S home in the vehicle, so she didnt think to check the 
documents she was asked to sign.
When CB sent the agreement paperwork to Ms A in January 2022, she realised she was a 
joint hirer on the agreement. Ms A said she was surprised by this, and contacted Ms S, the 
dealership and CB asking to be removed from the agreement. 
The dealership told Ms A that the agreement was originally to be in Ms Ss name only, but 
when they were presented with a provisional driving licence they contacted the finance 
representative and were told a joint hirer with a full licence would be required. The dealer 
said no concerns were raised, time was provided to read the contract, and both Ms A and 
Ms S signed the documents. 
Ms A complained to CB when she wasnt removed from the agreement. 
CB sent Ms A their final response to her complaint in February 2022. They said in order to 
meet their underwriting criteria, any applicant with a provisional licence would require a joint 
hirer with a full UK driving licence, and this was confirmed to the dealer on the day of the 
application. 
CB said that the dealer told them that the requirement for a joint hirer with a full licence was 
explained to Ms S and Ms A. They said Ms A had provided full details for the application 
along with proof of identity documents and had electronically signed the agreement. They 
didnt uphold Ms As complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Ms A brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said she 
didnt realise she was signing to be a joint hirer. She wasnt given any material to read and 
only entered her details onto a mobile phone. Ms A said she was concerned about any effect 
on her credit rating, and the continued responsibility for the agreement. 
Our investigator gave her view that the agreement wasnt misrepresented to Ms A. She said 
it was difficult to know exactly what was said during the transaction, but the paperwork that 
Ms A had signed was clear. She thought Ms A had been given an opportunity to read the 
documents and should reasonably have questioned what she was signing for if she wasnt 
sure. She didnt ask CB to do anything more. 
Ms A didnt agree. She said she didnt think to look at all of the other documents as she 
thought she was only there so that Ms S could legally drive the car home. Ms A said that 
mobile phones were not the right way to view documents and make an informed decision.
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A and Ms Ss complaint relates to the supply of a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here, I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its difficult to say exactly what was discussed between Ms A and the dealership at the time 
the agreement was entered into. Theres no recording of the conversation, and both parties 
have differing recollections of the event. 
I dont doubt that Ms A attended the dealership so that Ms S could legally drive home a new 
car, or that she didnt pay close attention to the process as she didnt think shed need to. 
But what I must decide is whether the agreement that Ms A ultimately entered was 
misrepresented to her in any way. 
Ive seen a copy of the online process that was followed in order for the agreement to be 
entered. There are a number of screens that need to be moved through in order to complete 
the application. The key facts about the agreement, pre-contract credit information and a full 
copy of the agreement including the terms and conditions were included in the screens, 
along with a requirement for Ms A to sign the document. 
Prior to signing, the online process required Ms A to confirm that shed read the agreement 
and understood that by signing, she was consenting to be bound by the agreement. I think 
the information included in this process and the nature of the agreement was clear. So, I 
dont think any information about what Ms A was agreeing to was kept from her. 
Ms A has said she didnt think she needed to read the agreement because shed only 
attended to help Ms S drive a car home. I dont doubt this, but Ms A provided personal 
information to the dealer, including identity documents, and electronically signed the 
agreement. I think if Ms A was unsure about what she was signing for, it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to have questioned this at the time. Ms A would also have been able to 
move through the documents before signing, so I think she had a reasonable opportunity to 
understand what she was consenting to before signing the documents. 
Ms A said she did question why she was being asked to provide information, and the dealer 
told her it would be in her name. I dont think this was misleading, as the agreement would be in both Ms A and Ms Ss names. 
Im satisfied that the dealership provided accurate information about the agreement to Ms A. 
So, Im satisfied that the agreement wasnt misrepresented to Ms A, and she had an 
opportunity to review the documents and could reasonably have refused to sign. 
Ms A said she doesnt think a mobile phone is an appropriate way to enter into a finance 
agreement. The full agreement terms and conditions were available for Ms A and Ms S to 
read before signing. The process also included an option to revert to a wet signature, where 
Ms A and Ms S wouldve been provided with a paper copy of the agreement to sign. So, Im 
satisfied that the method used to enter the agreement was fair, with the option to revert to 
paper documents if Ms A or Ms S were unhappy with completing on a mobile phone.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman