DRN-4213724
The complaint
A company that I will refer to as R has complained that QBE Europe SA/NV mis-sold it two 
Trade Credit insurance policies. 
Mr R, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to R throughout. 
QBE is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agent who 
sold the policy. As QBE has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agent, any 
reference to QBE includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
R sold goods to a company that I will refer to as N in two separate transactions. When N did 
not pay two of Rs invoices, R took out two separate trade credit insurance policies, one for 
each transaction. The policies were taken out through an appointed representative of QBEs 
agent. The maximum cover provided by each policy was £5,486.40.
R looked to claim on its policies but as N was not insolvent, bankrupt, or in a company 
voluntary arrangement it was unable to claim. QBE provided R with the costs involved in 
taking legal action, but R thought the costs were excessive when compared with the claim 
value. R complained to QBE as it did not think the costs had been made clear when it 
bought the policy. QBE did not agree that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Unhappy with QBEs response, R brought its complaint to our service. R said that its 
invoices usually range between £100 and £1,500 and QBE should not have taken it on as a 
customer knowing the costs that would be involved in making a claim, given that it would 
only recover 90% of the invoice value. It said the fees and commission charged in recovering 
the money owed was too high and this was not made clear when the policy was sold or 
highlighted in the terms and conditions. R also said it was not clear that legal fees would not 
be reimbursed if the claim was not successful. It said it had suffered a loss of £12,192, due 
to the mis-selling of the policy. 
QBE said that there is a requirement to involve its debt collection agent to ensure that an 
attempt to recover outstanding money has been attempted prior to any insolvency. However, 
it said this does not incur any charge. 
QBE said that a firm of solicitors, who I will refer to as Z, were available to support 
policyholders with legal action if they wanted to pursue this. QBE said that policyholders did 
not have any obligation to use Z, but it did require legal action to have been pursued to 
ensure that all attempts at recovery had been made. 
QBE said that Z had given R two options. The first was to pursue a Winding Up Petition 
which would cost £4,000 plus VAT, of which £500 plus VAT was Zs costs. The other option 
was to issue court proceedings with a view to obtain a County Court judgment. This would 
cost £764.46, of which £100 plus VAT is Zs fee. Z would also charge 17% commission on 
any recoveries it made. 
QBE said that R had not tried to establish a payment plan with N but this option was still 
available to R.
Our Investigator did not think the policy had been mis-sold so he did not recommend that Rs 
complaint be upheld. 
R asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I can only consider the actions of QBE when selling the policy. That means I 
cant consider whether the fees and commission charged by other companies involved in the 
claim were too high. R is also unhappy about how the claim was dealt with. However, I cant 
consider that in this decision as any complaint about how the claim was dealt with would 
need to be dealt with separately. 
QBE said that it sold Rs policy on a non-advised basis. This means that when selling Rs 
policy, QBE had a duty to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to enable R to 
decide if the policy was suitable for it.
I have therefore looked at the sales journey and the information provided when R bought its 
policies. 
QBE has provided a screenshot of the screen R would have seen when buying the policy. 
This tells the buyer to read the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and to tick to 
confirm that they have read the IPID, Terms and Conditions document and Policy Schedule. 
I would expect any significant or unusual terms to be included in the IPID or otherwise 
sufficiently highlighted.  
The IPID says that the policy is to protect invoices against non-payment as a result of 
insolvency, bankruptcy or a company voluntary arrangement. Under Obligations the IPID 
says that R must make every reasonable attempt to get the invoice paid and that it needs to 
register the debt with QBEs debt recovery agent. The Policy Schedule sets out that that 
there is a 10% uninsured element of the invoice but I do not find it unusual that it did not 
cover 100% of the invoice amount.
I think the sales process makes it clear that this policy only provides cover where the non-
payment of the invoice is due to the business which owes money becoming insolvent, 
bankrupt or in a company voluntary arrangement. It is of relevance that, in this case, N is not 
insolvent, bankrupt or in a company voluntary arrangement and until that happened there 
would not be cover under the policy.
QBE has confirmed that any debt recovery, by its recovery agent, prior to legal action does 
not incur any additional cost. So, I do not believe that there were any additional fees for the 
recovery agent which were not made clear. 
The sales journey does not make it clear that there could be legal costs involved if a 
company is not insolvent but QBE has confirmed that legal costs would not always need to 
be incurred before the policy provides cover. Moreover, there is no requirement for R to use 
Z as its solicitor. So, I do not think that by not setting out the fees involved in taking legal 
action that R did not provide clear, fair and not misleading information.  I can understand Rs frustration that it might need to incur significant costs in pursuing N for 
the outstanding amount through legal action. But the policy covers 90% of the value of the 
invoice if a buyer becomes insolvent, bankrupt or enters into a company voluntary 
arrangement; it does not indicate that it covers the costs in pursuing legal action. I do not 
think that QBE acted unreasonably in selling the policy to R as it provided information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading to enable R to decide if the policy was suitable for it.
QBE has confirmed that it is still an option for R to try to engage N in a payment plan. As this 
option has not been pursued I think it is fair and reasonable for QBE to offer this. If R would 
like to take up this offer it should contact QBE directly. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome R was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman