DRN-3551342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N, who live outside the UK, are unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society 
managed their account closures after Brexit.   
What happened
After Mr and Mrs N received a notice of closure from Nationwide dated 20 November 2020 
informing them that Mr Ns sole account and their joint account would need to be closed by 
26 January 2021, they wrote to Nationwide on 13 January 2021 giving details of how the 
money in the accounts should be transferred to them. Nationwide did not receive this letter 
before it closed the accounts and so it moved the funds to a holding account. It then 
explained for the funds to be released to Mr and Mrs N they would need to submit Brexit 
unclaimed funds forms, and provide the required supporting documentation. 
Mr and Mrs N were dissatisfied with a number of aspects of the process  the initial notice 
was not sent by priority mail, Nationwide did not comply with their request to combine the 
funds and issue one cheque to Mrs N, the quality of calls it made in January and February 
2021 where first no message was left and then the advisor was unhelpful, and that the 
document certification was not mentioned in the original closure letter. They want Nationwide 
to issue a cheque to Mrs N as they originally requested, to apologise for its approach to their 
concerns during this process and to compensate them for the stress this has caused.
Our investigator recognised that Mr and Mrs N had opted to send their instructions by letter  
not one of the options given in the closure notice  and as this had been received after the 
closure deadline the process and rules had changed requiring Mr and Mrs N to complete 
different steps. But he also thought there were a number of things Nationwide could have 
done better  - such as calling Mr and Mrs N before the accounts were closed, and contacting 
Mr N on receipt of the letter on 27 January 2021 before his closing account and putting him 
in the position of needing to reclaim the funds. So he asked Nationwide if there was any way 
it could enable Mr and Mrs N, as long-standing customers, to transfer the funds without 
completing the Brexit unclaimed funds process. Nationwide said it could not. 
Our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs N that as the society had not made an error and 
was following its process correctly - rather it was unfortunate the instructions sent by letter 
were not received in time  he could not force it to adopt a different process. This means to 
reclaim their money Mr and Mrs N need to complete the Brexit unclaimed funds form and 
provide the certified documentation as requested. He did however conclude that some of 
Nationwides actions (its choice of delivery compressed the notice period; it didnt call to 
chase up on their instructions; and the calls it later made were unhelpful and unclear) had 
caused avoidable stress and inconvenience and for this it should pay £150 compensation. 
Nationwide accepted this assessment and agreed to make the payment. 
Mr and Mrs N asked for an ombudsmans review. They wanted to emphasise that on receipt 
of the closure notice they had done everything in their power to open a new sterling account 
for receipt of the funds before opening an account for Mr M where they live. And only then 
could they instruct Nationwide. They remain doubtful a letter posted in the UK on 20 January 
2021 was not received until seven days later. They feel Nationwide has given contradictory 
statements about Mr Ns account, the fee and why it was left open later. They ask why did 
Nationwide wait till the last minute to communicate the notice of closure  this was contrary 
to the regulators expectations. They feel they are no further forward as Nationwide is asking 
for evidence the funds will be transferred into an account in the same name but Mr Ns 
account, where they live, is his in sole name  and needs to be to receive his funds if 
following Nationwides policy. Mrs Ns UK bank will accept the funds from the joint account if 
Nationwide will pay them to her sole name. Or they suggest Nationwide could transfer the 
money in the joint account to Mr Ns account and that would enable them to receive the total 
funds into his local account. 
Mr and Mrs N then contacted the investigator saying they would be in the UK in late 
September and so would there be an option to visit a branch and make a cash withdrawal of 
the funds, or as a cheque payable to a friend. Nationwide agreed to issue a cheque for the 
closure balances to Mrs N but said it would still need the unclaimed funds forms to be 
completed. But that it already holds confirmed identity documents, so Mr and Mrs N do not 
need to produce identity documentation. It said they would need to provide a very recent 
statement of the account the funds are being transferred to. A letter of indemnity would then 
need to be signed by both Mr and Mrs N at the time of the branch visit. Nationwide then 
liaised directly with Mr and Mrs N to arrange an appointment time. 
I understand Mr and Mr N were able to collect the funds successfully when they were in the 
UK, albeit not through the initially arranged appointment due to the unforeseen bank holiday, 
and that the money has been successfully deposited in Mrs Ns UK bank account.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and thought carefully about all of Mr and Mrs Ns comments. In keeping with our 
role as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will comment here on 
the points I find to be material to the outcome of their complaint, also recognising that the 
situation moved on during the course of our services involvement.
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint in part. I will explain why.
I can see that this process has been frustrating, stressful and time-consuming for Mr and 
Mrs N. And I am pleased they now have their funds. What I need to decide however is to 
what extent failings on the part of Nationwide contributed to their unsatisfactory experience.
I dont find that Nationwide did anything wrong when it sent the closure notice in the way it 
did; moved the funds when it had not heard back or by then requiring Brexit unclaimed funds 
forms and supporting documentation. Whilst Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with aspects of this 
process, this was the societys process for all customers in this position and it was fair that 
Mr and Mrs N were told they had to comply with it. 
I can see there were factors that made this problematic for Mr and Mrs N, such as slow 
postal deliveries and their available UK/overseas sole/joint account holdings, but these are 
not things I can fairly hold Nationwide liable for. And I have to take into account that right at 
the start of this process Mr and Mrs N opted to return their instructions by letter which was 
not one of the options set out in the closure notice. 
I agree with the investigators finding however that Nationwide could have done certain 
things better. It could have been more pro-active to follow up on missing instructions given it was aware Mr and Mrs N lived overseas, and the calls it later made were indeed unhelpful. 
This did cause avoidable stress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs N. I find that the 
recommended amount of £150 is reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
Since the investigator issued his view a solution was found. And, whilst we couldnt have 
instructed the society to act outside its defined process, I am pleased a flexible approach 
largely delivered the resolution for Mr and Mrs N that they wanted at the outset of this 
complaint. 
In their most recent correspondence they raised concerns about a number of issues they 
were unhappy about when they went to collect the money from the branch. But as these are 
new issues they would need to first raise them with Nationwide to give it a chance to 
respond. If they are unhappy with its response they can bring a new complaint to this 
service.
Putting things right
Nationwide must now pay Mr and Mrs N £150 compensation. It should also send them a 
letter of apology for its service failings that contributed, in part, to their difficult experience.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint in part. Nationwide Building Society must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman