DRN-3113202
The complaint
Mr R complains Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
There are several parties and representatives of Covea involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Covea.
What happened
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy with Covea.
After the policy had started, Covea completed its checks on the details Mr R provided in his 
application and it became aware of an accident claim that he had not informed them about.
This was a non-fault claim and the third party had admitted liability and their insurance had 
paid for everything.
Covea wrote to Mr R on 30 March 2021 to tell him that based on his policy being updated 
with the details of this claim, an additional premium was payable. Covea said to ensure his 
cover remained valid he must make contact as soon as possible to pay the additional 
premium owed and confirmed that if he didnt the policy would be cancelled from 11.59pm 
on 6 April 2021. 
Mr R did not get in touch with Covea by 6 April 2021, so it cancelled his policy.
Mr R contacted Covea on 10 April 2021 to discuss the letter. He said he had not paid the 
additional premium by the date that Covea had requested as he was not aware of it until 9 
April 2021 which was after the deadline it had given. He said that the delay in him receiving 
the letter was likely to be due to there being the Easter bank holiday between the letter being 
sent and it being received, and also because of delays in the post being delivered due to 
covid restrictions. 
Mr R took out a new motor insurance policy with Covea immediately on 10 April 2021. He 
made a complaint that it had unfairly cancelled his policy as it had not allowed a reasonable 
timeframe for him to reply to its letter and he was unhappy he would have to declare this 
information in the future.
Covea did not uphold his complaint and said that sufficient communication was sent to him, 
as an email had been also sent. It said that it had followed the correct procedures to cancel 
his policy. Mr R said he had not seen an email and when he checked he found it had gone 
into his spam folder.
As Mr R was not happy with Covea, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He looked into the case and did not think that Covea 
had been fair. He said that Mr R had plausible reasons that he had not made the payment by 
the date in the letter and believed he would have paid if he had received the letter in time. 
He said Covea should amend its records to a consumer cancellation and check if any refund 
is due to Mr Rs current motor insurance policy premium.
As Covea is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy with Covea it says  
We may cancel your policy by sending you seven days written notice to your last known 
address if we have good reason for doing so.
It goes on to give reasons where it may do this which includes you providing us with 
incorrect information and failing to put this right when we ask you to.
I am satisfied Covea were correct to send written notice to inform Mr R of its intention to 
cancel his policy once it identified a claim had been made that he had not notified them of 
when taking out the policy. The letter that it sent gave Mr R the option to pay an additional 
premium to keep the policy valid.
I have considered the time frame in which the notice was sent. The posted letter was dated 
30 March 2021 and the email was sent on  the same date. The deadline for Mr Rs response 
was 11.59pm on 6 April 2021.  The Easter holiday was from 2 April 2021 to 5 April 2021 and 
I think it is likely there was no post delivered between these dates. In addition it is  
recognised nationally that post has been delayed due to the covid pandemic restrictions. 
I think that due to a combination of the above reasons it is realistic to accept the letter was 
not delivered to Mr R until 9 April 2021 which meant he missed the deadline given by Covea.
Mr R also said that he had not received an email but when Covea said it had sent it, he 
checked his account and found it had gone in to his spam folder. 
Although Covea followed the rules detailed in its policy terms and conditions to notify Mr R of 
its intentions to cancel his policy, after careful consideration I dont think the timescale given 
to respond was enough in the circumstances of this particular situation. I think on this 
occasion Mr R had a valid reason why he  missed its deadline and Covea did not give a 
reasonable time for him to make a response. 
When he contacted Covea Mr R agreed that he did not include the non-fault accident in his 
policy application. He said he had not added it because it was not his fault and the third-
partys insurance had settled the claim. He understood and accepted that now Covea had 
applied this claim information to his policy it meant an additonal premium was due. He said 
he would have had no issue paying the extra if he had been given reasonable opportunity to 
do so.
As Covea had already cancelled the policy by the time that Mr R contacted it, he took out a 
new polcy with Covea immediately.
Covea have recorded it cancelled Mr Rs policy. I think in the circumstances this should be 
removed as the policy would not have been cancelled if reasonable time had been allowed 
for Mr B to pay the additional premium. 
I require Covea to remove any reference on its records to Mr Rs policy being cancelled by 
them, so he does not  have to declare he has had an insurer cancellation when applying for future policies. I think it is reasonable that Covea record the cancellation of his policy as a 
consumer cancellation in this case.
Covea have checked and confirmed that the charge for Mr Rs current policy would not be 
reduced by amending its records to a consumer cancellation. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and Covea should amend any internal and external 
records to reflect that the policy was not cancelled by them.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to amend its internal database to reflect that the cancellation 
to Mr Rs policy was consumer cancellation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman