DRN-2717113
The complaint
Ms H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms H bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card by post. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Ms H and Barclays a provisional decision on 10 March 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Ms Hs credit card application had a section for optional extras, one of which was PPI. It 
offered her two options to choose from: one to buy the policy and one to turn it down. The 
option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Ms H signed the 
form to confirm her choices. She then returned the form in her own time and without any 
potential pressure from a salesperson. So I think that Barclays made Ms H aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Barclays didnt give Ms H tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. They did have to give Ms H enough information to decide for herself 
whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Ms H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.
Here, it looks like Ms H chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she was 
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. Ms H 
didnt have any other cover in place aside from the very limited statutory benefits. And while 
I understand her family were happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be unable to 
help when needed  and this policy meant she wouldnt have to ask her family to pay for her 
card. So the PPI could have really been useful for Ms H in case something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms H could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
25 March 2021. But neither Ms H nor Barclays sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman