DRN-3334568
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the car he acquired from Motability Operations Limited 
(Motability) not being of satisfactory quality. The headlights are suffering from a misting 
which he feels he should be compensated for. 
What happened
Mr M acquired a brand new vehicle through Motability in March 2021 on a hire agreement. 
He contacted the business in May 2021 to say there was a problem with the headlights, and 
that they were misting. They arranged for the dealer to inspect the car. The dealer said there 
was no fault with the headlights and this misting was a design feature of the car. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and so was offered a second opinion at a different dealer. They 
looked at the car in June 2021, and again, said there was no fault and that this was a design 
feature of the car. 
Motability provided their final response later in June 2021 to Mr Ms complaint. They said 
that there wasnt any condensation in the lights, and that it was the design of the lights that 
gave this misted appearance. As it was a cosmetic design feature, they didnt agree that it 
made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality. 
However, as Mr M was unhappy, they were prepared to allow him to cancel the agreement 
and give the car back. They said they would give him back the pro-rata amount of the 
advanced payment he had made, but that the separate £1000 he paid to the supplying 
dealer for a sunroof couldnt be refunded. This was an optional extra he had ordered directly 
with the dealer and didnt form part of their finance agreement with him. They had spoken to 
the dealer, who werent prepared to refund this £1000 as there was no fault with the car. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said that they werent persuaded there 
was something wrong with the car, and that the car headlights met legal requirements for 
headlights, so this cosmetic misting feature didnt compromise the safety in any way. 
Mr M had said that he wouldnt have chosen the car if he had known about the misted 
headlights and that he hadnt been shown them in the showroom. The investigator felt that 
Mr M could have asked for a demonstration of the lights if he had wanted to, so they couldnt 
hold the finance company responsible for a design feature that hadnt been demonstrated 
prior to Mr M entering the contract. 
Mr M didnt agree with this, so asked for an Ombudsman to review the case and make a final 
decision. He feels he should be offered a full refund of his advance payment and the £1000 
he paid for the sunroof. He said that he was shown the LED lights at the dealer, but they 
hadnt mentioned the misting effect which looks like condensation. If it had been pointed out 
to him, he would have chosen another car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I am not making a decision on a purely legal basis, I give consideration to consumer 
law and how it might impact on a complaint. The first area is about whether the car is of 
satisfactory quality; in other words, is there a fault which a reasonable person would not 
expect with a vehicle like this. Ill come onto this shortly. 
The second is whether the contract or car were misrepresented to Mr M in any way. This 
reflects what he told us when he asked for an Ombudsman decision; that if hed been told 
about the headlights having a misted effect, he wouldnt have bought the car. 
For the car to have been misrepresented to Mr M, he would need to have been told 
something about the car, which he relied on in making his decision to acquire it, which 
wasnt true. In this instance, he hasnt said that the dealer told him that the lights werent 
misted. Hes said they didnt highlight this misted feature to him. As such, I cant say that this 
feature or the headlights has been misrepresented to him. 
If Mr M had a particular interest or concern with the type of beam produced by the 
headlights, he could have asked for a full demonstration, perhaps in dark conditions. There 
is no suggestion that he asked for this and was refused, and no suggestion that any party 
told him the wrong information about the lights. So, Im not persuaded that the headlights or 
the agreement were misrepresented to Mr M. 
Ill move on now to discuss the quality of the car and whether it was satisfactory. For this, I 
consider the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This says, amongst other things, that the car 
shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of the 
goods, Motability are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances.
As it was a brand new car, I think a reasonable person would expect the headlights should 
function correctly when supplied. In this instance, there has been no suggestion that they are 
unsafe; in fact, Motability have confirmed that they ensured they met the legal required 
standard as part of the assessment carried out by the dealers who looked at the car. They 
have said that the headlights are supposed to look like this, as its a feature of the car. And 
two separate dealers have examined the car and said that there is no fault. Because of this, I 
cant say that the car is not of satisfactory quality. 
This just leaves the overall issue. That Mr M wasnt expecting misted lights, doesnt like 
them, and wouldnt have chosen the car if hed known it had them. 
I empathise with Mr Ms position on this, but I cant agree that the business needs to do 
anything more here. New cars have a multitude of features, and it wouldnt be possible for 
an advisor at a dealership to demonstrate all of them to a consumer, it would simply take too 
long. 
I would however expect them to demonstrate or explain anything that the consumer asked 
about. But in this instance, theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr M asked about the 
specifics of the headlight style or was declined a demonstration of them. 
I also think its really important to consider the fact that condensation is quite commonplace 
with LED headlights. In this instance, the business has said that for this car, this misted look to the lights is actually a design feature of the car and there isnt any condensation in the 
lights. But it would be quite possible for similar cars to have actual condensation in the 
headlamp unit. This is something that is a characteristic of LED headlights on many cars, 
due to the temperatures that these lights operate at, and the venting of headlamp units. 
If this was the case here, and there was actual condensation in the unit, I still wouldnt 
consider this to be a fault which made the car of unsatisfactory quality, and I still wouldnt be 
upholding the complaint. This kind of condensation comes and goes with temperature 
changes and is unavoidable. It does mention in the online manual for this car that 
condensation can form in the headlights but will usually disappear after a little while. 
If it was water ingress, where a seal or similar wasnt working properly and water was getting 
into the headlamp unit and damaging the lights, that would potentially be an issue. But 
theres no suggestion here that there is actual water in the headlamps, or that its caused 
any damage. And two separate dealers have said that there is no fault and the headlights 
are fine, so there is no evidence of any problem with water ingress. 
Overall, Im sorry that this issue has impacted Mr Ms enjoyment of his new car, but I wont 
be asking the business to do anything further. I dont think this issue warrants compensation, 
so the discussion around whether the offer the business made was fair or they should have 
offered more isnt relevant here. I wouldnt be asking them to offer what they already have, 
so I wont be asking them to offer any more.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman