DRN-1964279
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that hes lost out financially because the Pensions Review calculation 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited carried out in 2000 was not carried out properly.
What happened
In 1989, Mr W received advice to transfer out of his occupational pension defined benefit 
scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP), now administered by Aviva. Mr W 
accepted the advice and in May 1989, £5,622.09 was transferred into his PPP.
In 1999, Mr W was asked by Aviva whether he wanted to have his transfer reviewed as part 
of the industry wide Pensions Review; which he accepted.
The outcome of that Pensions Review was that the advice Mr W received to transfer was 
unsuitable. Aviva said, as a result, it calculated the redress payable to Mr W in line with the 
Pensions Review guidelines issued by the regulator at the time. 
Mr W accepted the redress payable and this was paid into Mr Ws PPP in September 2000.  
Mr W now complains, through his representative, that the Pension Review calculation was 
carried out using incorrect information relating to the values of Mr Ws PPP and OPS. He 
says the value of the PPP was overstated, because no policy charges or fund management 
charges were incorporated in the calculation. 
Mr W complained to Aviva. It did not uphold his complaint. So, he complained to our service. 
At first our investigator did not think Mr Ws complaint was within our jurisdiction because it 
had been made out of time. After receiving further representations from Mr Ws 
representative, she decided that it was in jurisdiction and went on to consider the merits of 
Mr Ws complaint. She concluded that on the merits, Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld 
because, in summary, it appeared Aviva had acted correctly when it completed the loss 
calculation in 2000, following regulatory requirements that were relevant at that time. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view on the merits. He said, through his representative, 
in summary, that:
Aviva carried out the calculation incorrectly because for the purposes of the loss 
assessment exercise it wasnt possible to reduce a possible loss by assuming a 
reduction in the future expenses to be charged under the PPP;
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) didnt exist at the time, so it could not have 
intervened. And it was common knowledge that there were many failings in how 
firms carried out these calculations at the time. The regulator couldnt have dealt 
with every failing; and
The FCAs guidance - FG17/9 is clear. If the review wasnt carried out properly at the 
time, this guidance should now be applied to recalculate the redress payable.
As agreement hasnt been reached, this complaint come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), 
established an industry-wide review of particular pension business carried out by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. This was generally 
known as the Pension Review. The advice Mr W received fell into this category. 
The review was set up due to concerns about unsuitable advice being given by 
businesses during this period, to transfer out of a OPS with guaranteed benefits, 
to a PPP, where the benefits were not guaranteed and were dependent on 
investment returns. 
If the advice given was found to be unsuitable, the regulator provided a process, 
known as the Pension Review methodology, which businesses had to follow in 
order to determine whether the consumer had suffered a loss. 
If there was a loss, the methodology also calculated what the business needed 
to do in order to put the consumer back into the position they shouldve been in, 
but for the unsuitable advice. 
The methodology and associated calculations were based on a number of 
actuarial assumptions. The calculations were very complex and were completed 
by a qualified actuary, using specialist software.
The Pension Review was intended to be a one-time only assessment. The redress paid 
wasnt intended to be ongoing or reviewable. Many PPP holders who transferred out of 
OPS, and like Mr W, received redress based on the Pensions Review methodology, have 
found as they approach retirement, that the redress paid hasnt matched the benefits they 
wouldve received if they had remained in their OPS.
Our role as a service is not to actuarially check the details of these Pensions Review 
calculations. We can check for any obvious errors in approach within the calculations. 
Having looked at a copy of Avivas actuarial calculations in Mr Ws case, I cant see any 
obvious errors. Nor can I see that the way in which Aviva approached valuing the OPS and 
PPP benefits was out of line with the SIBs (the then regulators) guidance in place at the 
time. Ive not seen anything to show that SIB, or the regulators that followed, have 
expressed concerns about Avivas general approach to these redress calculations. As our 
investigator said, this was an exercise carried out on a large scale. The calculations 
themselves were overseen by actuaries. If there was a problem, I think it likely that the 
relevant regulator, at the time, wouldve intervened.
Mr Cs representative asks us to require Aviva to redo Mr Ws calculation, applying the 
FCAs (the current regulators), updated pension redress methodology from 2017 
(FG17/9). However, the FCA has said that this updated methodology is only to be used 
where a business didnt previously review the transfer in accordance with the regulatory 
standards or requirements at the time. Here, I have concluded that Aviva did carry out its 
review in line with regulatory standards and requirements in 2000, so it would therefore not be fair or reasonable for me to require Aviva to revisit the calculation using the 2017 
methodology.
Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly require Aviva to revisit Mr Ws loss calculation 
now. I say that because I cant see that Aviva did anything wrong in the way it carried this 
out in 2000. And in those circumstances, I make no award.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10  August 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman