DRN-3300280
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited handled the renewal of his 
motor insurance policy. He wants increased compensation for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr As policy with Hastings was due for automatic renewal but it wasnt able to offer him 
further cover. But, due to a system error, the letter to tell Mr A this wasnt sent. Mr A found 
out he was no longer covered when he called to ask for his policy documents. Mr A was 
unhappy that he had been driving whilst uninsured for ten days. Hastings offered him £100 
compensation for the error. But Mr A was unhappy with this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Hastings hadnt given Mr A time to shop around for alternative cover. And so he thought that 
Mr A had had to pay for more expensive cover to start immediately. And he thought Hastings 
should reimburse Mr A for this increase, £97.38, and give him a letter explaining why there 
was a gap in his cover. But he thought Hastings compensation for Mr As trouble and upset 
was fair and reasonable. And he didnt think it needed to pay Mr A the cost of a days lost 
work. 
Hastings agreed to pay Mr A the premium increase less £25 for an additional product 
included. But Mr A replied that he disagreed with the Investigators view. He thought 
Hastings should compensate him with £140 for taking a day off work, and £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A had been with Hastings for five years and his policy was automatically renewed. But in 
2021, Hastings wasnt able to offer cover for Mr A as none of its panel of insurers were able 
to provide a price for the same terms as the previous year. I cant say that this was Hastings 
fault as its for the insurers to decide what risks they want to cover. Hastings said it should 
have given Mr A 28 days notice of this so that he could find alternative cover elsewhere. But 
it didnt. And Mr A said he was driving his family around for 10 days whilst uninsured. 
I can understand that Mr A felt shocked when he found this out. And I can also understand 
that he would be worried about what would have happened if anything untoward had 
happened in this period. Mr A wanted Hastings to ensure this didnt happen to other 
customers. But its not my role to punish Hastings for its errors, but to consider if it has 
responded fairly and reasonably to Mr As complaint. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr A wanted Hastings to refund his entire years premium. But I dont think that would be fair 
or reasonable as Mr A would have had to pay for his years cover without the mistake. Mr A 
had to find alternative cover elsewhere immediately. And so he didnt have the opportunity to 
shop around and also he may have paid a more expensive premium as he wanted 
immediate cover. 
Our Investigator calculated, comparing the previous years premium and what Mr A paid for 
his new cover, that Mr A was out of pocket by £97.38. But this included £25 for a product 
that Mr A hadnt taken out previously with Hastings. So to restore Mr As position, I think 
Hastings should reimburse Mr A with £72.38 for the increased premium he incurred. 
Mr A said hed had to take a day off work to look for new cover. He thought Hastings should 
pay him £140 compensation for this. But I think, without Hastings error, Mr A would have 
had to spend time looking for alternative cover. So I cant reasonably hold Hastings 
responsible for the time he had to spend doing this. 
Hastings offered Mr A £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. But Mr A thought this 
should be increased to £250. He said he thought he wouldnt have been covered if there had 
been an accident. He thought he may have been stopped by the police. 
But fortunately nothing untoward happened in the ten days that Mr A was driving without 
cover in place. I can see, from Mr As account, that Hastings explained that if anything 
untoward had happened it would have indemnified him. And I can only look at actual events, 
not potential ones. So, although I can understand Mr As worry, I cant reasonably require 
Hastings to compensate him for this to the level he desires. 
The impact of the error on Mr A was that he was caused shock and upset when he found out 
that he was uninsured. He then found new cover elsewhere immediately. I think Hastings 
offer of £100 compensation for this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. I dont require it to increase this. 
Mr A said he was worried about how he would explain the ten day gap in his insurance 
history to other insurers. Our Investigator recommended that Hastings should provide him 
with a letter explaining that this was due to its error. I think that is a fair and reasonable way 
of allaying Mr As concern. 
Putting things right
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to 
do:
1. Pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
2. Pay Mr A £72.38 to compensate him for the increase in premium he had to pay to find 
alternative cover immediately. 
3. Provide Mr A with a letter he can show other insurers that explains the ten day gap in his 
insurance history. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman