DRN-3625144
The complaint
Ms M complains that shes unable sell her peer-to-peer loan parts in her crowdfunding 
account with Funding Circle Ltd. 
What happened
Ms M held a peer-to-peer (P2P) crowdfunding account with Funding Circle. Funding 
Circles platform allowed investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for 
interest payments. Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a 
way for investors to access their money early by selling their loan parts to other investors by 
way of a secondary market. 
Ms M decided to withdraw her investment in June 2019 as she was unhappy with the level of 
return she was receiving. Ms M was unable to withdraw immediately and was placed in a 
queue in order for her loan parts to be sold to other investors. 
RateSetter introduced new changes to the secondary market in December 2019. These 
included the introduction of a new a selling tool whereby investors requesting to access their 
funds early would join a queue and would be able to transfer loan parts on a rolling basis. 
The changes meant that each transfer request would last for 120 days, after which investors 
would receive an email confirming the amounts recouped via transfers and repayments in 
that period. Funding Circle also introduced a 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale 
value of all loan parts sold on the secondary market, which acted as a discount to investors 
who bought the individual loan parts.
In April 2020, Funding Circle made the decision to temporarily pause the secondary market 
and to stop new retail lending as part of its ongoing measures to protect investor returns 
while it evaluated the potential impact of Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that investors were 
no longer able to access their money early by selling their loan parts before the loans 
matured. 
Ms M complained to Funding Circle in November 2020, as she felt it was taking too long for 
her to be able to withdraw her investment. She said the new selling tool was unfair as it gave 
no priority to those investors who had applied to sell months before it was introduced. Whilst 
she was also unhappy with Funding Circles decision to introduce the 1.25% transfer 
payment, she said this was only a minor issue as it wouldnt make any difference, as she 
was unable to sell all of her loan parts due to the pausing of the secondary market. 
Funding Circle considered Ms Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. Funding Circle explained 
that it made the changes to the selling tool in response to the withdrawal delays like Ms M 
were experiencing. It said it was confident that these changes were fair and were in the best 
interests of the vast majority of investors. 
Funding Circle also explained that it has a regulatory obligation to ensure loan parts sold on 
the secondary market are appropriately priced. The ongoing pandemic posed a number of 
significant unknowns, such as the length of the restrictions facing businesses or the severity 
of any resulting economic impact. And so, it wasnt possible to reflect how those unknowns 
may impact the businesses which investors, such as Ms M, were lending to and price those 
existing loans accordingly. Funding Circle said it was therefore prudent to pause the 
secondary market to protect investors returns. Funding Circle explained that Ms M was still 
able to have access to her funds by withdrawing the accumulated monthly capital and 
interest repayments from the businesses shed lent to.
Ms M remained unhappy with Funding Circles response and so she referred her complaint 
to this service for an independent review. 
Since referring her complaint to this service, Funding Circle announced in March 2022 that it 
would be closing its secondary market permanently. 
An investigator at this service considered Ms Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. She 
explained that Funding Circles terms made it sufficiently clear that there was no guarantee 
that loan parts would be sold on the secondary market. She said that Funding Circles 
decision to pause its secondary market was a commercial decision and isnt something our 
service can comment on. However, shed considered whether Ms M had been treated fairly 
as a result of its decision. She explained that Funding Circles regulatory obligations meant 
that it needed to fairly and appropriately price loans sold on the secondary market and she 
explained that the conditions caused by the uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that 
it wasnt possible for Funding Circle to do this. She also said that Funding Circles terms and 
conditions explained that it could make changes to the services it provides and so she felt 
Funding Circles decision to pause the secondary market and eventually close it was fair and 
reasonable. She also explained that the 1.25% transfer payment was not a charge that 
Funding Circle received and instead acted as a discount to potential buyers. So she was 
satisfied this was a price adjustment rather than a fee. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, she said:
When she chose to access her investments early, she was aware that it wouldnt be 
instant but she didnt expect her place in the selling queue to be tampered with to her 
disadvantage and that her ability to sell would be blocked.
After admitting to the block being permanent, Funding Circle could and should have 
allowed loans to be transferred between existing investors.
She felt the term allowing Funding Circle to make amendments to the investment 
was an unfair term. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered Funding Circles regulatory obligations. Funding 
Circle is authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA 
regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and 
guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
COBS 18.12.17R Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is 
facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm 
must ensure that the price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and 
appropriate.
Funding Circle needed to ensure that the information it gave Ms M regarding her accounts 
was clear, fair and not misleading. It also needed to pay due regard to Ms Ms interests and, 
more specifically in this case, ensure any price offered to Ms M for exiting loan parts was fair 
and appropriate.
Withdrawal delays and pausing the secondary market
Funding Circles terms and conditions relevant at the time Ms M opened her account 
explained: 
10.2 You can withdraw available funds that have not been lent or allocated for 
lending from your Investor Account. If you want to have access to any funds that 
have already been lent, you will need to transfer your Loan Parts by selling them to 
other Investors. 
[...] 
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any 
assurance as to how long it may take to do so.
From these terms and conditions, I think Funding Circle made it clear to Ms M that if she 
wanted to access her funds early she would need to either withdraw what funds she had 
available or attempt to sell her loan parts early to other investors. Whilst the secondary 
market provided an option for Ms M to explore when looking to access her funds early, 
Funding Circle made her aware that her ability to sell loan parts in this way was never 
guaranteed.
This point is also made clear throughout Funding Circles website and investor guide which 
further explains that the ability to do so depends on there being demand from other 
investors. I appreciate Funding Circle didnt explain it could pause the secondary market on 
a temporary basis (or on a permanent basis as it eventually did) but I dont think this renders 
the promotion of investing through Funding Circle misleading. Im satisfied that enough 
information was given to Ms M to make her aware that selling via the secondary market 
wasnt guaranteed and she ought to have only invested if she was happy with the risk of not 
being able to exit early.Funding Circle has explained why it decided to pause the secondary market. 
Notwithstanding the fact that I don't think it was guaranteed or contractual, Ive considered 
its reasons and think they're also fair and reasonable in the circumstances it faced during the 
onset of the global pandemic. As outlined above, Funding Circle must ensure that it fairly 
and appropriately prices loan parts sold on the secondary market. Clearly, its ability to do so 
had been impaired by the pandemic. Generally, investee businesses ability to repay loans 
had been affected by the pandemic which in turn made lending riskier. Ultimately, Funding 
Circles choice to pause the secondary market is a commercial decision which its entitled to 
make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether Ms M has 
been treated unfairly as a result of that decision. Whilst I appreciate Funding Circles 
decision to pause the secondary market is inconvenient for Ms M wants access her money 
straightaway, Im conscious that allowing her to sell her loan parts to other investors could 
be unfair due to the increased risk of the loans defaulting and capital lost. Whilst its not clear 
to what degree the risk of Ms Ms loan parts has increased, its not my role to determine this.
Funding Circle has also provided further reasons for pausing and then closing its secondary 
market since the complaint has been passed to me. From these, its clear that there were 
several considerations which Funding Circle has thought about whilst implementing the 
pause to the secondary market. These include difficulty with pricing, a change in lending 
focus, diversification and illiquidity. Clearly market conditions meant that Funding Circle 
made the decision to not to take on new loans and consequently to not have a secondary 
market. Uncertainty continued for a long period due to the impact of the pandemic on the 
wider economy. During this time, Funding Circle made commercial decisions on changes to 
its operations and has focused away from P2P lending. Funding Circle wasnt prohibited 
from making decisions it benefited from, as long as it took the interests of its customers into 
account first. And for the reasons Ive given, Im persuaded thats what it did, especially 
considering the ability to sell via the secondary market was never guaranteed. Ms M has 
continued to receive interest on her loan parts and has the ability to withdraw her loan 
repayments and so I dont think shes been treated unfairly as a result of Funding Circles 
decision.
Changes to the selling tool and the introduction of the transfer payment 
I appreciate the transfer payment issue is redundant, considering Ms M was unable to sell 
her loan parts due to the secondary market pause and closure. However, I will cover off why 
I think it was fair to introduce this, as well as the changes made to the selling tool in 
December 2019. 
Prior to the changes, loan parts were sold on a first-come, first-served basis and investors 
had to wait until they reach the top of the queue before selling any loan parts. The new tool 
introduced allowed for Funding Circle to cycle through all investors wishing to sell loan parts 
as many times as possible within a 120-day period. This, coupled with the introduction of a 
1.25% transfer payment for selling on the secondary market, intended to combat these 
queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Ms M, had to wait to sell their loan parts 
on the secondary market. 
Funding Circle says it was able to make these changes as there was the following term in its 
previous terms and conditions: 
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to 
time without your consent for any of the following reasons: 
[...] 
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to 
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we no 
longer offer;This type of term is known as a variation clause and it is common practice for financial 
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand Ms M believes this term 
to be unfair, however, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to 
include a clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to 
decide. However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions 
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
I think its important to clarify that the transfer payment is a re-pricing instrument applied to 
loans which are sold on the secondary market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it 
doesnt receive any money from the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors 
who purchase the individual loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount 
incentive to these buyers.
In June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-
peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. 
In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should 
re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing new rules into COBS which came 
into force in December 2019. COBS 18.12.16 R explains that: 
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation 
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances: 
[] 
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of the 
P2P agreement. 
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that: 
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a 
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the 
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate. 
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend 
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in 
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors. 
In Ms Ms case, Funding Circle was facilitating an exit for her by way of selling her loan parts 
on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle had a 
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Ms Ms loan parts were fair and 
appropriate on the secondary market. Funding Circle applied a blanket transfer payment of 
1.25% to all loans which are sold by way of the secondary market. So in order to determine 
whether this was fair and appropriate, its important to understand what considerations 
Funding Circle made before introducing this. 
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding its considerations, 
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding 
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market.As well as these considerations, its clear that sales queues on the secondary market were 
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts 
in this way. And the introduction of the transfer payment, along with the new selling tool, was 
clearly intended to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Ms M, 
had to wait in order to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors, 
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts 
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results 
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in 
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there 
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market was an 
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Ms Ms loan parts. I say this as Funding 
Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate not only 
to Ms M, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from her. It follows that if the 
loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then Funding Circle 
must ensure the price offered reflects this. As Ive explained above, the reason for 
introducing the transfer payment was to adhere to fair pricing regulations. There was an 
increased perception by investors that loan parts were riskier on the secondary market, 
which had meant that these loan parts werent selling quickly. Which meant that Funding 
Circle had to re-price them accordingly. Although Funding Circle hoped that this and the new 
selling tool would in-turn reduce the queues, even if it didnt have this effect, Funding Circles 
actions were still with its regulatory requirements in mind. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Funding Circles decision was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and Im not persuaded Ms M has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman