DRN-1477478
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr N acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr N responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. The investigator has set out the standard required 
under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I agree with her assessment, that each 
area of damage is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear.
I understand Mr N believes MBFS should have considered the mileage of his car 
when it was returned. But there was nothing in the contract that required MBFS to 
offset any reduced mileage against the refurbishment charged. So, I dont think I can 
say they were unreasonable when refusing to do so.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges MBFS have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors.
MBFS reduced the charges they applied by a little over £230 so, even if a refinish 
could have completed instead of a replacement of the door panel, I dont think that 
would have resulted in a saving in excess of the £230 MBFS have offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman