DRN-3476256
The complaint
Mr P complains about a charge for damage when he returned his car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In September 2019 Mr P acquired a new car under a hire agreement with MBFS.
In September 2021 the car was returned. An initial inspection took place on 23 September 
2021 and a further inspection was carried out on 28 September 2021.
MBFS sent Mr P an invoice in November 2021 for damage to the car. This totalled £382. 
Mr P was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS.
MBFS issued its final response in January 2022. This said, in summary, that initially it had 
considered there was £1,074.72 worth of damage to the car. But, it explained it had removed 
a charge for a tyre and reduced a charge for the door pad. But, it said it was still charging 
for:
£210  scratch to bumper
£42  damage to door pad
£130  dent to right hand door shut
MBFS also confirmed Mr P had made a payment of £210 towards the charges.
Mr P remained unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. Mr P said he 
accepted the other charges, but not the dent to the door shut. He said the damage wasnt 
picked up on the first inspection. He said if the damage was there, it was likely caused by the 
door shutting on the seatbelt. He said there had been a problem with the seatbelt button 
which needed a repair and which caused the buckle to slip down and become trapped. So, 
he said the damage was due to a fault with the car rather than anything he did.
Our investigator issued a view and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that he 
thought the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear. He said it wasnt surprising the 
damage didnt get picked up in the first inspection. And he said there wasnt any evidence to 
show the damage was caused by a fault.
Mr P disagreed. He said, in summary, that the door had closed on the seatbelt a small 
number of times when the seatbelt was awaiting repair. And he said the damage might not 
have been present at the first inspection.
Our investigator explained this didnt change their opinion. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr P complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Ps complaint about MBFS. 
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr P for the damage. Looking at the 
agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr P agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
So, Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In relation to dents, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Minor body dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that:
a)they are less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter 
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken
Looking at the photos of the dent in question, Im satisfied it is over 15mm and has gone 
through the paint surface. It follows that Im satisfied this damage falls outside of fair wear 
and tear according to both sets of guidance. 
I now need to consider if there are other circumstances which would mean it wouldnt be fair 
to charge Mr P for this damage.
Ive thought about what Mr P said about the damage not being noted on the first inspection. 
But, I dont agree here. Although you cant see the damage in detail, and its referred to as 
something different, on the initial inspection I can see a photo has been taken of the area 
and labelled as B post RH Condition: Dented. So, I think the damage was noted here.
Even if I didnt take this into account, I would still reach the conclusion that its most likely on 
balance that the damage occurred during the roughly two years and 19,000 miles when Mr P had the car rather than during the five days and less than 100 miles when the inspection 
company had it.
Ive then gone on to carefully consider what Mr P said about the damage being caused by a 
fault with the seatbelt.
Firstly, Ive considered the Vehicle Information (Damage history) form Mr P provided. This 
says:
Push button, belt strap, seat belt, front seat, left broken  emphasis added by myself. This 
also records the mileage at the time as 12,630 miles.
I appreciate there is some ambiguity here in the description. But, I think its possible this 
refers to a repair to the left side seat belt  whereas the damage recorded was on the right. 
Either way, Ive also considered that Mr P had the car for over 12,500 miles at this point  so 
the damage could well have occurred much earlier than this.
Ive also considered what Mr P said about this. He said he thought the damage was caused 
when the seat belt slid down and the door closed on it which occurred a small number of 
times. Ive considered, if this was the case, whether he mitigated his losses. If this 
happened more than once, I might have expected him to keep an eye out on this issue and 
the area. And it might have been prudent to either move the buckle, or to report this at the 
time the issue was repaired.
Thinking about this very carefully, I havent seen enough to make me think this damage was 
caused by a problem with the seatbelt. Even if I accept it was, Im not convinced Mr P 
mitigated his losses here. So, it follows that I dont think MBFS need to take any further 
action.
I want to reassure Mr P that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
this complaint. But, this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman