DRN-3533815
The complaint
Ms M complains UK Insurance trading as Direct Line (UK Insurance) caused damage to her 
car when recovering it after it was driven off the road; incorrectly dealt with the incident as a 
claim on her motor insurance policy instead of her breakdown policy; and didnt offer her a 
fair value for her car. Shes also unhappy with the overall service received.
All references to UK Insurance include its agents.
What happened
Ms M took out a motor insurance policy and a separate breakdown policy with UK Insurance. 
Around February 2021, she called UK Insurance for assistance as her car had driven off the 
road into a bank of snow. Shes since explained the area it was driven into was a car park. 
UK Insurance has given us a recording of when Ms M called to report the incident.
The recovery agent towed Ms Ms car off the snowbank. After investigating the damage, 
UK Insurance decided to write off the car as it would cost too much to repair. It offered Ms M 
around £1,760 as the market value of the car less any excess on the policy.
Ms M rejected this offer. She said the damage to her car was caused during the recovery as 
the agent put too much force on the back of it. So she thought UK Insurance should cover 
the cost of repairing the car without her needing to make a claim. She also said it would cost 
her much more to replace her car than itd offered.
UK Insurance arranged for engineers to look at the damage to Ms Ms car, it seems this was 
done via photos and videos. In its initial response in February 2021, it said the engineers 
were unable to determine whether the damage to Ms Ms car was caused by the recovery or 
driving off the road. It highlighted that it would expect damage to the tow bar and elements 
connected to it if the recovery was carried out unprofessionally. In a later response it said the 
damage wasnt consistent with a car being towed so it didnt agree to put things right in the 
way Ms M wanted. UK Insurance did however offer Ms M a total of £175 as compensation 
for the poor customer service she said shed received and the delay in giving her a hire car.
 Unhappy with UK Insurances responses, Ms M asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint as she didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say the damage happened when the car was being towed. And she thought the valuation 
UK Insurance had reached was fair considering the condition and mileage of the car. Ms M 
didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case was passed to me to decide.
I spoke to the garages that inspected Ms Ms car. Ill call the initial garage the car was 
recovered to at Ms Ms request M and a second garage it was later moved to, H. It seems 
M inspected the car in full whilst H carried out a more basic inspection.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part in summary because:
From what the garages said, it seemed the damage to Ms Ms car was consistent with 
being towed rather than the incident which wouldve needed to have been a big impact. 
I thought it was unlikely there was a big impact during the incident as the car wasnt in a 
ditch, the land was flat and I couldnt see obstacles or damage to the front of the car. 
I wasnt satisfied UK Insurance had shown its more likely the damage was caused when 
the car was driven off the road rather than when it was towed as Ms M claims. 
I didnt think UK Insurance shouldve dealt with what happened as a claim on Ms Ms 
motor policy. Had it not, I was persuaded Ms M wouldnt have claimed for the incident.
I didnt think it would be reasonable to direct UK Insurance to cover the cost of repairing 
Ms Ms car or getting a new one as these costs far exceeded its value. Instead, I thought 
it should write off her car and pay her the market value without treating it as a claim. 
I thought mileage was an important factor when determining the market value of a car. 
And it wasnt unreasonable for UK Insurance to use trade guides to work out the 
estimated value. So UK Insurances offer was reasonable. 
UK Insurance had caused Ms M upset, confusion, frustration and I didnt think she 
wouldve felt listened to. She was also left without a car for 10 days. If UK Insurance had 
listened, things couldve been resolved sooner. So I didnt think its offer made up for this. 
I directed Ms M to provide evidence of her alternative travel arrangements if shed been 
left without a car since the date her hire car had been returned. 
To put things right, I directed UK Insurance to put Ms M in the position she wouldve been in 
if it hadnt dealt with what had happened as a claim on her policy; give her a letter to share 
with other insurers to show the incident shouldnt have been recorded as a claim; pay the 
market value of her car plus 8% interest and pay her a further £500 compensation to make 
up for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before the deadline set out in my 
decision.
UK Insurance didnt accept my provisional decision. It said in summary:
It was never given reports from Ms Ms repairers to dispute its engineers findings.
The reason Ms M needed to be recovered wasnt covered under the terms of the 
breakdown policy as it wasnt a mechanical fault. 
Ms Ms breakdown terms say costs usually covered by a motor policy wouldnt be 
covered by the breakdown policy. 
When Ms M first called UK Insurance, she said she was stuck and the car wouldnt drive. 
It says this suggests the incident damaged the car and the motor policy applies.  
Whilst the definition of breakdown in the breakdown policy includes getting stuck in 
snow, the circumstances of Ms Ms incident wouldnt be classed as a breakdown. An 
example of what would is if the car couldnt get up a snowy hill.Ms M losing control of her car in snowy conditions is a single vehicle incident that isnt 
covered under her breakdown policy.
Ms M didnt say whether she accepted or rejected my provisional decision. But she provided 
further information and documentation for me to consider. She said in summary:
UK Insurance didnt close her claim in March 2021 and its showing on her policy. 
She returned the hire car in April 2021 and she wasnt given an alternative. 
She is unable to find another car for the amount UK Insurance has offered  nor has she 
been able to negotiate sellers down to that price. 
UK Insurance should cover the cost of delivering her a new car.
She would like to keep her car and doesnt think she should have to pay return costs. 
Her car shouldnt have been written off as it can be repaired. 
She paid for her policy to be renewed when shes been unable to use her car. And her 
car was confirmed as statutory off road (SORN) on 1 August 2021. 
UK Insurance should cover the cost of moving Ms Ms car to H, Hs inspection and the 
cost of delivering it back to her afterwards. This totals £342.30. 
In September 2022, I wrote to both parties again to explain I still thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part. In summary I thought:
UK Insurance couldve asked for more information from M and H itself. And in any event, 
from its actions, I didnt think it wouldve acted differently if it had seen their reports.
There wasnt anything in the terms to support UK Insurances view that getting stuck in 
the snow only met the definition of a breakdown in specific circumstances. 
Ms Ms explanation for why she said her car wouldnt drive at the time of reporting the 
incident was plausible.
Ms M wouldve needed to pay for her motor policy until the end of its term. And she 
needed fire and theft cover at a minimum after declaring her car SORN.
I couldnt consider the costs Ms M had suggested she had for alternative travel 
arrangements as she hadnt provided evidence or details of it. 
UK Insurance didnt need to cover the cost of moving Ms Ms car to H or the second 
inspection as it didnt direct her to do this and it had already declared the car a total loss. 
It was fair for UK Insurance to rely on trade guides to work out the estimated market 
value of Ms Ms car and I thought the value offered was fair.
The cost of delivering a new car to Ms M would be one shed eventually have to cover 
anyway. And the compensation goes some way to make up for the inconvenience. 
Its usual for insurers to keep damaged items when they pay out for a total loss. But as 
UK Insurance has allowed Ms M to buy back her car, its fair for it to charge her.The decision to classify the car as uneconomical to repair is fair considering the damage 
described to me by M and H and the likely cost of repair compared to the market value.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before the deadline. Ms M accepted my 
provisional decision in part. She said the car is insured and she hasnt been paid the 
settlement. She reiterated the incident wasnt her fault and the cost of moving the car and 
the inspection should be covered as both we and UK Insurance suggested shed need 
another inspection. She also said she wants to keep her car without paying return costs. 
UK Insurance provided comments from an engineer who said whilst the damage is difficult to 
prove either way, accelerating forward (when skidding off the road) before coming to an 
abrupt stop could have caused the damage and snapped the shaft. Whereas pulling the car 
slowly backwards shouldnt have caused the damage claimed. It said it had provided 
evidence it should be dealt with as an accident on the policy which is supported by Ms M 
saying the car wasnt driving when she reported the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered the complaint based on the responses Ive received. Id like to take this 
time to thank both parties for their patience while I have been looking into things. I still think 
this complaint should be upheld in part. 
I know Ms M feels strongly that UK Insurance should cover the cost of transporting her car to 
and from H and the inspection it carried out. And I can see shes highlighted both 
UK Insurance and our investigator suggested shed need a further inspection. But I cant see 
where UK Insurance directed her to get another report. And Hs inspection took place before 
our investigator suggested shed need further evidence  and wasnt as a result of our what 
our investigator said. So Im satisfied Ms M chose to move her car to H and get a further 
inspection. And I dont think it made a material difference to the outcome of her complaint. 
Ms M doesnt think she should have to pay the costs for keeping her car. But its not unusual 
for insurers to charge a fee when policyholders want to keep their car after its been declared 
a total loss. And I dont think the amount quoted in this case is unreasonable. 
UK Insurance has provided further comments from an engineer saying the car coming to an 
abrupt stop after skidding likely caused the damage. But the engineer has said its difficult to 
prove how the damage was caused, it doesnt seem he physically inspected the car (unlike 
M and H) and hes given very little detail. I also note, the reasoning UK Insurance has given 
to support its view has varied throughout the complaint. So this doesnt change my decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right in this case UK Insurance should:
Put Ms M in the position she wouldve been in if it hadnt dealt with what happened as a 
claim on her motor insurance policy but a notification only. So that means itll need to 
remove any record of the claim and refund any excesses shes been charged.
I understand the price of other policies Ms M holds with UK Insurance have increased 
upon renewal due to this being treated as a claim. So I think it should refund the 
difference between what shes been charged for those policies and what she wouldve 
been charged if this incident hadnt been recorded as a claim.Pay Ms M the difference between what she wouldve paid for fire and theft cover only 
and the amount shes paid for her motor insurance policy since declaring her car SORN.
Add 8% simple interest to the above amounts from the dates Ms M paid the excess; for 
her other policies; and her motor insurance premium until the date of settlement.*
Provide Ms M with evidence  for example a letter  to share with her other insurance 
providers showing this incident shouldnt have been recorded as a claim for them to 
adjust the price of any other policies she has where relevant.
Arrange for the collection of Ms Ms car at a convenient time and date for her if she 
doesnt want to keep it. 
Pay Ms M £1,760 as the market value of her car if this hasnt been paid already. It 
should add 8% simple interest on that amount from the date of the initial valuation until 
the date of settlement*. If Ms M wants to keep the car, UK Insurance can deduct the 
salvage return cost its already quoted to Ms M.
Pay Ms M a further £500 as compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused her. This is in addition to the £175 its already offered her. So, 
in total, it will have paid £675 as compensation.
*If UK Insurance considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint in part and direct UK Insurance trading as 
Direct Line to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman