DRN-2396203
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc did not alter its bank account 
mandate, and this allowed a former director to view the bank accounts.
What happened
The directors of R signed a mandate variation form in December 2018. One of the directors 
resigned in January 2019. But the remaining director found that the mandate had not been 
changed by November 2019. A third party told him that the former director could still see the 
account details online. R was unhappy to be told that no mistake had been made and that it 
took so long to dealt with this. Bank of Scotland had not responded to a subject access 
request. 
Bank of Scotland had initially said it would not be upholding the complaint as it did not have 
all the information needed to change the mandate from R. But when it submitted its 
complaint file to this service it said that this was not correct. And that it should have altered 
the mandate in January 2019. It offered to pay R £500 for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator did not recommend that it do anything more. He said that we would only be 
looking at evidence of what actually happened and not what could have if the data for R was 
misused. Aside from the third party that made reference to the access still held by the former 
director there was no information that details had been given out more widely. And the 
reason contact was made was because that former director wanted her details removed and 
was concerned to seem to be still linked to borrowing by R. He considered the offer made 
was reasonable to reflect all the aspects of the complaint including poor service, the error 
and the inconvenience. 
He said he wouldnt be recommending that Bank of Scotland pay the costs of R appointing a 
representative or a forensic accountant to see whether any unauthorised payments had 
been made. The compensation reflected the inconvenience and so he didnt see a basis for 
other bank charges to be refunded. And the director would need to contact the Information 
Commissioners Office about the lack of response to his subject access request.
R said it did not accept the findings and wanted an ombudsman to review the case. Bank of 
Scotland had not apologised for what happened or provided the subject access request. It 
had broken the law and had failed to provide acceptable customer service. It still wanted its 
professional fees paid and a refund of charges for a service it was not receiving. R said it 
might otherwise pursue this matter in court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland has clearly made an error. And I can understand why its final response 
letter saying it hadnt was frustrating to the current director because that was not accurate 
either. Given that its accepted that now I dont need more information about what happened 
after January 2019 as its clear that by then Bank of Scotland had the authority it needed.
I know that the current director of R thinks that the former director was monitoring what was 
happening on the account and may had been able to divert funds. And thats especially 
because there had been wider civil issues relating to personal issues between the two of 
them. I need to consider any evidence of detriment and loss for R. And while I can 
understand what might have happened I dont have evidence to support any direct loss or as 
R says that its reputation has been damaged.
We provide informal dispute resolution and are not a court. Its a matter for R to decide it if 
wants to appoint a representative or forensic accountant. But I dont Ive a reasonable basis 
to require Bank of Scotland to cover what might be significant costs. Frankly if the former 
director has made payments from the account then thats something I think would have been 
shown in statements to R and no single such payment has been pointed out. If R does not 
accept my view of the complaint then it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to 
any relevant time limits.
A subject access request is for an individuals data and this is a complaint from a separate 
legal entity R. If the director is not happy with the response as the investigator says he is 
able to take that up with the Information Commissioners Office.
Putting things right
There has clearly been poor service here and delay and inconvenience for R. As I said there 
is no financial loss established. I need to decide what a reasonable amount of compensation 
is for everything that has happened. I find that the amount now offered of £500 is a fair 
response to this complaint. Given that I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to make any 
formal apology as I dont think that would be meaningful here.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay R £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman