DRN-3140681
The complaint
Mr P wants Nationwide Building Society to refund the early repayment charge (ERC) he 
incurred when he redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
Mr P had a mortgage with Nationwide. He switched his mortgage to a new five year fixed 
rate product in 2019.
Mr P has explained that he was self-employed and wasnt able to work during the 
coronavirus pandemic. As a result, he felt he could no longer meet his monthly mortgage 
payments and made the decision to sell his property. 
As Mr P redeemed the mortgage within the fixed interest rate period he was charged an 
ERC of around £2,400. He asked Nationwide to reduce this, but it didnt agree. 
Nationwide said, in summary:
Mr P had taken out the fixed rate product on an execution only basis, so he didnt 
receive any advice and it was his responsibility to ensure that the product was 
suitable for his needs; 
The ERC had been legitimately charged in line with the terms and conditions of the 
product he had selected;
The Offer he had received should have made him suitably aware of the ERC 
applicable to the fixed rate product he had selected;
As the mortgage had been redeemed in full it assumed that the equity from the sale 
of the property had meant he was able to fund the ERC, and it wouldnt consider 
reducing this.
Mr P wasnt happy with Nationwides response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said in particular that he had had to borrow money from relatives to pay the ERC.
Our investigator didnt think that Nationwide needed to take any further action. But Mr P 
doesnt agree, and has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer dated 5 April 2019. This states:
Early repayment charges are payable if you repay the loan or switch to another product 
before the end of the initial interest rate.
The offer document goes on to explain that the ERC is applied on the amount repaid before 
the end of the mortgage product and gives an illustration of what the ERC would be if the 
mortgage was redeemed at certain times.
Im satisfied from this that the Nationwide was contractually entitled to charge the ERC, and 
that it was clearly explained in the documentation and brought to Mr Ps attention before he 
took out the new product.
As our investigator has explained, the purpose of the ERC isnt to penalise borrowers who 
repay their mortgage early. And it isnt imposed so that lenders can make a profit from it. 
There is a cost to a lender when a mortgage is repaid before the end of its fixed term and the 
ERC is the lenders way of passing that cost on to the borrower. This is something that is 
allowed for under the relevant rules. 
I sympathise with Mr P, who has explained that he had to sell his property as a result of the 
effect of the coronavirus pandemic on his income. But I am satisfied that Nationwide was 
entitled to charge the ERC set out in the mortgage contract. And, in the circumstances, I am 
not persuaded that it would be reasonable for me to ask it to waive the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman