DRN-3865207
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B has complained about how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled 
disputed transactions that took place on the late Mrs Bs current account. 
What happened
On 28 January 2022, a representative (Mr B) of the late Mrs B noticed two payments made 
from Mrs Bs current account to a business they did not recognise. The representative called 
Barclays fraud team to arrange for the amounts to be refunded back to the account. 
During the call, Barclays said that it was already aware of the disputed transactions; it had 
placed a block on the debit card on the account; and said it had written to another of Mrs Bs 
representatives (Mrs S). It transpired that the letter had been sent to the wrong address, so 
it was never received. As a result of the conversation, Barclays agreed to put a permanent 
block on Mrs Bs debit card.
Whilst on the phone, Mr B attempted to make a number of transactions from the account in 
question, but these were blocked by Barclays. Mr B was told that he would need to attend a 
Barclays branch with two forms of ID to unblock his access to the account.
Mr B attended a branch on 31 January 2022 with the requisite ID and was then put on the 
phone to Barclays fraud team by a member of the branch staff. Eventually, after a number of 
hours in branch, he was assured that all blocks on the late Mrs Bs account had been lifted.
When the Mr B returned home, he says that he attempted to make the payments again from 
Mrs Bs account, but says he was still blocked from doing so. He then contacted Barclays via 
webchat, and after a number of unsuccessful attempts to get someone to look into matters, 
the block was eventually lifted from the account and the payments were able to be made.
Mr B received a final response letter that was dated 2 February 2022. However, Mr B was 
unhappy with this, as hed specifically asked Barclays (on 28 January 2022) not to raise a 
complaint until he had the opportunity to put all of his concerns to Barclays - which he did on 
7 February 2022.
In Barclays response, it agreed to credit Mrs Bs account £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Barclays says that it didnt receive a signed disclaimer from the representative relating to the 
two disputed transactions. Because of this, on 15 March 2022, Barclays reversed the two 
credits (amounting to £155.95) it had previously paid into Mrs Bs account. This essentially 
put the account back in the position as though the two disputed transactions had been taken 
from the account  which resulted in the account being overdrawn. 
This resulted in Barclays collections department sending letters to ask that the account was 
brought back to a credit balance and also a number of phone calls were made to Mr B. One 
of which I understand took place on the day of Mrs Bs funeral.
After the representative raised the complaint with our service on behalf of the late Mrs B, 
Barclays told our service that it is willing to recredit the £155.95 to the account; to also 
increase the amount of compensation to a total of £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused; and it had instructed its collections team to cease contacting the representatives of 
Mrs B, whilst our service look into the matter.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they ultimately thought that what 
Barclays had offered was reasonable.
The estate of Mrs B disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything that has been provided, I can see that this matter has 
caused the representatives of the late Mrs B a great deal of frustration and inconvenience in 
getting this matter resolved. And Im also sorry to hear that Mrs B sadly passed away in April 
2022.
As the adjudicator explained in their assessment, our service can only award compensation 
for distress and inconvenience that has been caused to eligible complainants. 
The representatives (Mr B and Mrs S) who have raised the complaint on behalf of the estate 
of Mrs B were acting in the capacity of power of attorney up until Mrs B sadly passed away 
on 23 April 2022. And then from 4 July 2022, after the grant of probate, they were acting in 
the capacity as executors of Mrs Bs Will. 
So in this case, as the complaint centres around the late Mrs Bs bank account; the 
transactions that took place on that account; and also Barclays administration i.e. fraud 
processes, surrounding Mrs Bs account, the eligible complainant in this complaint is the late 
Mrs B  not her representatives. And that is the case both when they were acting in the 
capacity of power of attorney for Mrs B and also when acting in the capacity of Executor of 
her estate.
Having looked through everything that has been provided, I can see that the vast majority of 
the difficulties were experienced by the representatives of Mrs B, rather than by Mrs B 
herself. Indeed, I can see that Mr B acknowledged this himself, when he said in an email to 
our service on 12 October 2022:
My sister acknowledges that most of the matters referred to in the overall bundle of 
documents relate to things that have occurred between me and Barclays while I was 
acting initially as an authorised third party to my mothers account and latterly as one 
of her executors.
Therefore, in short, Im unable to ask Barclays to pay any compensation for any distress or 
inconvenience that either of the representatives (Mr B or Mrs S) mayve experienced as a 
result of this matter. This is because neither of them were, or are, eligible complainants.
However, I can consider any financial loss that Mrs B or her estate mayve incurred. And I 
can consider any distress or inconvenience Mrs B mayve incurred as a result of this matter. 
As it does not appear to be in dispute that the two transactions amounting to £155.95 were 
fraudulently taken from the late Mrs Bs account, I think that Barclayss offer to refund these 
amounts is fair, as it puts Mrs Bs account back in the position it wouldve been in had the 
transactions not occurred (or had at least been refunded and stayed that way). 
I also think that any overdraft interest or charges that were applied to the account as a result 
of Barclays decision to reverse the credit to the account on 15 March 2022 should also be 
refunded back to the account. I say this as I think Barclays couldve done more to reach out 
to the representatives of Mrs B to ensure the necessary form was completed, before the 
decision to reverse the credits was made. 
However, in relation to compensation for distress and inconvenience, I cant see that the late 
Mrs B did suffer any distress and inconvenience - as the matter was handled almost entirely 
by Mr B. At most, I recognise the late Mrs B mayve experienced some inconvenience because her 
account was blocked, and so the payments that her representatives were authorised to 
make on her behalf, couldnt be made from her account. But everything that has been 
provided indicates that essentially the distress and inconvenience was caused to the 
representatives, largely Mr B, rather than to Mrs B herself.
So taking everything into account, I think that Barclays offer to credit the amounts of the 
disputed transactions back into her account, puts the late Mrs B back into the position she 
wouldve been in had the fraudulent transactions been reversed and stayed that way. And, 
beyond refunding any overdraft interest and charges that mayve been incurred after the 
credits were reversed, I think Barclays offer to pay £350 fairly represents any distress and 
inconvenience that the late Mrs B exclusively mayve experienced in this matter.
Barclays is of course free to pay the representatives of the late Mrs B and her estate as 
much or as little compensation as it deems fit, due to their personal experiences in this 
matter. But, for the above reasons, Im unable to make any findings on, or make any awards, 
for that aspect of the complaint. 
It therefore follows that Im unable to instruct Barclays to pay any more compensation 
specifically for any distress and inconvenience the representatives mayve experienced, 
because that is beyond the remit of our service in this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B in particular may be disappointed by this. But my powers as an 
ombudsman only exist because of the rules in place, so I must follow them.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above, I require Barclays to:
Credit the late Mrs Bs account with £155.95 to refund the disputed transactions on 
the account, if this has not been done already;
Refund any overdraft charges and interest that mayve been applied to the account 
specifically because Barclays reversed the credit to the account on 15 March 2022; 
and
pay £350 to the estate of Mrs B for any distress or inconvenience that was caused 
specifically to the late Mrs B, prior to her passing away.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what I have set 
out above to put matters right, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman