DRN-3760782
The complaint
Mrs L complains HDI Global Specialty SE has not offered to renew home insurance cover for 
her property, despite it dealing with an ongoing subsidence claim.
What happened
Mrs Ls property had previously been underpinned, due to structural movement, prior to her 
purchasing it. When she was searching for a new insurance policy, she answered a question 
about whether the property had previously suffered from subsidence as no. Based on this 
answer, she was presented with a quote for insurance from HDI which she accepted.
A few years later, Mrs L noticed cracking to her property and reported a claim to HDI. During 
the course of its investigations HDI found out about the history of the property and that it had 
suffered from previous movement. Having considered the question that was asked at the 
time the policy was taken, HDI concluded Mrs L had answered the question to the best of 
her knowledge at the time, and therefore it said it would deal with the claim Mrs L had 
presented. However, it said, it didnt insure properties that have previously had structural 
movement and therefore while it would deal with the present claim, it wouldnt offer cover for 
the property going forward.
Given the way Mrs Ls policy was set up, she wasnt informed of HDIs decision immediately 
and she was without home insurance for some time. Mrs L was unhappy about this and the 
fact HDI had declined to offer renewal of the policy. She complained, but HDI did not change 
its position.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint and said she thought HDI should provide ongoing 
cover to Mrs L as it was dealing with an ongoing subsidence claim. She also pointed out HDI 
had signed up to a code of practice which was designed ensure consumers have ongoing 
cover in instances such as this.
HDI disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, it pointed out it does 
not provide cover for properties that have suffered with movement, so it would be unfair to 
ask it to do so.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 29 September 2022. I said I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
I understand Mrs L has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered carefully everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mrs L, and by HDI, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
HDI accepted Mrs Ls claim as it decided to give her the benefit of the doubt that she 
had not knowingly misrepresented the history of her property. I think this was a 
reasonable thing to do. And it should continue with that claim and if appropriate, carry 
out repairs that are lasting and effective.
However, based on the information provided to me, Im satisfied that at application 
stage, had Mrs L answered the question as yes, her property had suffered 
subsidence, she would have never been provided with a quote from HDI for 
insurance.
All insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will and wont accept cover for. HDI 
has confirmed providing cover for properties which have suffered movement is 
outside of its risk appetite. Which is why Mrs L would never have been provided 
cover for her property by it, had the true position been known.
HDI hasnt signed up to the voluntary code, to provide continuing insurance cover, an 
insurer with a very similar name has.
Ive considered whether it would be reasonable to ask HDI to abide by the spirit of 
this code as an example of best practice. However, given that insuring properties 
such as Mrs Ls isnt something it would do normally, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to direct it to in this instance.
It isnt that there is no insurer that would provide cover for Mrs Ls property with an 
ongoing subsidence claim, there are, but they may be more expensive or impose 
different terms.
I accept the position Mrs L finds herself in wasnt intended and is not ideal, however I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable in this instance to direct HDI to continue 
provide insurance in such circumstances where originally it would never have offered 
cover.
Im satisfied HDI gave reasonable notice that it wasnt intending to offer renewal of 
the policy. Mrs L was unfortunately misinformed about this by another party, should 
she remain unhappy about this then she would need to raise her concerns with that 
business.
I realise this whole matter has had an impact on Mrs L and has been quite worrying. 
However, as I havent found HDI have done anything wrong, I wont be awarding any 
compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional findings
HDI did not provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Mrs L responded saying she was unhappy with my intended decision but had no further 
information to provide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
So, for the same reasons as set out above, Im satisfied HDI have acted reasonably in not 
offering a renewal of Mrs Ls home insurance policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mrs Ls complaint against HDI Global Specialty SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman