DRN-4118943
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI.  They travelled within the 
UK and stayed at a hotel when Mr P became unwell. They cut their trip short by two days, 
travelled home and made a claim for the cost of two nights. 
UKI declined the claim on the basis that there was no medical evidence to show that Mr P 
was unwell. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to UKI but it maintained its decline.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that UKI hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The government instructions which were being delivered daily via television and 
newspapers override UKIs normal rules and requirements. Mr P would have been 
better by the time he saw his GP and he didnt attend the accident and emergency 
department based on government advice and guidance. 
Mr P says he wrote to UKI on 14 September 2022 (after he returned home) to inform 
it that he wished to make a claim. He had also tried to make contact by phone but 
couldnt get through. No claim form was ever sent and his letter was not responded 
to. 
He made several attempts to contact UKI by phone but without success until early 
October. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms, under the curtailment section say:
We will cover you for your unused accommodation costsif you unavoidably need 
to abandon your trip while you are away for one of the following reasonsone of the 
following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill: any insured person...
It also says:
All claims for death, injury, illness or quarantine must be supported by relevant 
medical certificates from a doctor, which must be obtained at your own expense as 
well as any other supporting documents that we reasonably require in support of your 
claim. You must contact our emergency assistance service as soon as reasonably 
possible once you become aware of the need to return home.
The policy terms are clear that medical evidence is required in the event of illness. I note Mr 
P says he followed government advice and guidance and that he may have been better by 
the time he got an appointment with his GP. But I cant fairly ask UKI to consider and accept 
a claim where no medical evidence is available and hasnt been sought. 
The onus is on Mr and Mrs P to prove their claim. Mr P could have sought advice from 111 
or contacted his GP by telephone. I cant see that this was attempted. 
Mr P says he made the immediate decision to return home before his condition deteriorated. 
But the terms require Mr P to contact UKI as soon as reasonably possible once he becomes 
aware of his need to return home. I havent seen any evidence that Mr P attempted to 
contact UKI before curtailing the trip. As he didnt do so, it wasnt able to provide appropriate 
advice and guidance on what Mr P should do. 
The policy does provide cover for medical expenses and extended stays if this is due to the 
illness of a policyholder. As Mr P didnt seek medical attention before curtailing the trip, UKI 
wasnt fairly able to assess whether the trip should be curtailed or whether it should provide 
cover under the policy. 
I appreciate it may have been difficult for Mr P to get an appointment with his GP. And that 
he didnt feel he should attend the accident and emergency department. But the policy only 
covers claims for curtailment due to being seriously ill. Without medical evidence, UKI 
cannot assess whether Mr P was seriously ill when he curtailed the trip. So I dont think it 
acted unfairly. 
Mr P says he was unable to get through to UKI and it failed to reply to a letter. But these 
arent complaints which were made to UKI or investigated by this office. So they dont form 
part of my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman