DRN-3050667
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that until recently Mr R held with Topaz Finance 
Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages. The essence of the complaint is that Mr R believes 
Heliodor delayed and mis-handled his request to sell the property for less than the 
outstanding debt. Hes seeking reimbursement of three months interest that he says he 
wouldnt have had to pay if Heliodor had handed things properly.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customers to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence of Mr Rs argument is that, but for Heliodors failings, his sale could have been 
completed three months sooner than it was. Ive thought a lot about that, but whilst I 
recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling, Im not persuaded thats the case. 
I say that not least because for most of November and December 2020, its quite apparent 
that Mr R was unwilling to consider committing to a sale on terms that would have left him 
liable for any shortfall. He was also unwilling to agree to Heliodors requirement that the 
property be re-valued by a different firm from that which had already valued it for him.
Heliodors contact notes record Mr R saying, as late as 15 December 2020, that he wouldnt 
proceed with the sale if his offer wasnt in full and final settlement, and that he didnt want to 
be charged for another valuation. 
But I find it was quite reasonable for Heliodor to expect all of the debt to be repaid. It wasnt 
obliged to agree to a shortfall sale at all, and in the event it did, Heliodor could quite fairly 
require Mr R commit to repaying the shortfall after the sale. It was also perfectly reasonable 
for Heliodor to insist on having the property valued by a valuer of its choosing, to avoid the 
risk of a conflict of interest with the valuer who had recently acted for Mr R. 
Heliodor was also entitled to keep information about its panel of surveyors confidential. That 
other lenders might disclose that information isnt an issue; each lender will exercise its own 
judgement on what information its willing to release.
So for all that Heliodor did clearly make some mistakes, I dont find that it delayed Mr Rs 
sale by the three months implied by his claim for compensation. The compensation Heliodor 
has offered Mr R for its admitted shortcomings - £200 - is fair in all the circumstances. 
Whats also fair, even though Mr R might not agree, is that the eventual outcome was that he 
repaid all of his outstanding debt on the sale of his property
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr R to decide if, on 
further reflection, he wants to contact Heliodor directly to accept its offer of £200 in full and 
final settlement of his complaint. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman