DRN-3128330
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly declined its application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan Scheme.
One of Rs directors, Mr F, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
R approached NatWest for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) 
Scheme shortly after it was launched by the government in March 2020. The company was 
looking to borrow £5,000,000, which it wanted to use to pay down an existing commercial 
loan held with the bank to reduce its outgoings.
Mr F submitted Rs application on 26 March 2020. He was contacted in mid-April, when the 
bank advised that the company was unlikely to be eligible for the loan it had requested. 
NatWest took some further information from Mr F and reviewed the application further. But 
on 4 May, the bank advised that Rs application had been declined.
When confirming its decision in writing to R on 11 May, NatWest explained that it had 
declined the application for two reasons  that it was not to fund working capital or trading 
activities due to the impact of Covid-19 and that the loan was for an excluded purpose 
(being the refinancing of existing debt). Mr F appealed and a complaint was also later raised, 
but the bank maintained its decision. It further explained that lenders had discretion under 
the Scheme rules as to whether an application met their risk appetite  and said that Rs 
request hadnt met NatWests.
R subsequently applied elsewhere for a CBIL and successfully obtained the loan it was 
seeking.
Mr F doesnt think NatWest acted fairly in declining the application. He says, in summary, 
that:
R met the eligibility criteria as prescribed under the Loan Scheme rules, which didnt 
exclude debt consolidation as a purpose. The companys eligibility is further 
demonstrated by the fact that it secured its loan from an alternative provider.
R wasnt looking simply to refinance its debt, but rather to put the business on a more 
stable financial footing by easing the increased debt burden it was under as a direct 
result of the pandemic  in line with the aims of loans through the Scheme. 
NatWests comments as to risk werent credible, given that the proposed facility was 
for a lower amount than the companys existing borrowing and wouldve been on 
preferable terms, and the valuation of the project that the lending was to support.
NatWest took too long to reach its decision.
All of this left R out of pocket, as it had to pay fees to arrange the loan elsewhere 
while also maintaining the higher payments on its existing commitments in the 
interim. 
One of our investigators reviewed Rs complaint but didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. In summary, she said that while the Scheme rules didnt prohibit the use of CBIL 
funds for the refinancing of debt, NatWests own criteria did. She thought the bank had the 
discretion to set such requirements and, having assessed Rs application in line with these, 
didnt think it had acted unfairly. She noted that the bank had taken longer than wouldve 
been ideal to reach its decision, but didnt think this was unreasonable given the assessment 
it was carrying out and the broader impact on its level of service by the volume of 
applications it was handling and the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that the prospective CBIL wasnt 
purely to refinance debt, highlighting that at least a portion of the loan wouldve been new 
money to help R cope with the impact of the pandemic. And while he still thought NatWest 
had wrongly declined Rs application, if its policy was so clear then it ought to have reached 
its decision a lot sooner than it did  with the delay having caused R to incur interest on its 
existing commitments for longer than necessary.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The rules of the CBIL Scheme didnt expressly prohibit the use of loan funds to refinance 
existing debt (although refinancing of debt with the same lender was subject to certain 
limits). But decision-making was fully delegated to the lender and NatWest had the discretion 
to decide whether it would approve applications for this purpose. NatWest has explained and 
evidenced that under its policy, it didnt allow the refinancing of existing debt. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make. And while R was able to secure the loan it wanted from an 
alternative lender, that doesnt render NatWests decision wrong or unfair  but rather is 
reflective of the differences in lending appetite that each had the discretion to decide.
I appreciate what Mr F has said about the intended purpose of the loan, but the vast majority 
of the funds were to be used to refinance Rs existing debt in one way or another. I 
appreciate that the need for this was a consequence of the disruption caused by the 
pandemic and that doing so wouldve put the company on a stronger financial footing  
satisfying some of the Schemes eligibility requirements and aims. Nonetheless, the 
company wanted to use the funds to refinance its existing debts with the bank. So NatWest 
declined the application on this basis. Given that Ive found the bank had the discretion to 
decide the policy and that it then assessed Rs application in line with this, there is no basis 
on which I could fairly say it shouldve acted any differently. 
Mr F has queried whether NatWest approved any CBIL applications involving an element of 
refinancing, but I dont think I need such information in order to decide whether the bank 
dealt with Rs request fairly. Im satisfied the bank had a standard policy in place, against 
which it assessed applications  and as it handled Rs request in accordance with that 
policy, I think it treated the company fairly.I note Mr Fs comments on those from the bank about the decision being based on its risk 
appetite. I suspect this was merely an unclear explanation of the banks position when 
responding to the complaint, given that is the only mention of risk Ive seen  its lending 
appetite, more broadly, was the issue. In any event, the application was legitimately declined 
on the basis of the intended use of the funds, so there is no need for me to consider this 
aspect any further. 
Mr F has suggested that NatWest ought to have made a counterproposal to R to provide 
lending for any amounts not being used for refinancing. I dont think its unreasonable that 
the bank did not do so in the circumstances here, given the demands on it at the time in 
needing to process, at pace, large volumes of applications for lending under the 
government-backed loan schemes. And R was free to submit a revised application in light of 
the banks decision, for which it knew the reasons, if it wished.
Ive also reviewed the time it took NatWest to reach its decision on Rs application. The 
request was submitted on 26 March 2020, with the decision to decline it communicated to 
Mr F around six weeks later. That said, I note that the bank had given Mr F an earlier steer 
as to the companys likely ineligibility when speaking to him in mid-April, but that he opted to 
pursue the application to a formal decision. In any event, I dont think that the six-week 
timeframe was particularly unreasonable, bearing in mind the nature of Fs request and the 
further information it needed to gather to assess it, that the Loan Scheme had only recently 
been launched, and as the bank wouldve been dealing with a large number of applications 
in addition to managing the wider consequences of the developing pandemic. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think NatWest dealt with Rs CBIL application 
incorrectly or unfairly  so Im not requiring that it take any action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman