DRN-1558956
The complaint
Mr B complains that Personal Group Benefits Ltd (PG), a broker, mis-sold him a hospital 
plan insurance policy and didnt send him any information about the policy. Mr R was a 
beneficiary under the policy and has joined in the complaint.
What happened
In June 2013, Mr B took out a hospital plan insurance policy after a sales person from PG 
visited his workplace. The policy gave benefits ranging from £25 to £100 for certain hospital 
treatment and overnight stays in hospital, up to maximum limits and subject to the policy 
terms. The monthly premium of £21.50 was deducted from Mr Bs salary.
Mr B says the sales person didnt explain the policy to him and put pressure on him to agree 
to take out the policy. He says that he didnt receive any information about the policy and its 
been renewed with no clear information being provided. Mr B wants a refund of premiums 
and compensation. During the course of his complaint to PG, he cancelled the policy.  
One of our investigators asked PG whether it consented to us looking at Mr Bs complaint, 
as the rules we operate under say we can only look at complaints made within specific time 
limits. PG consented. 
The investigator looked at what had happened. She said that she couldnt say that PG had 
mis-sold the policy and that, on balance, she was satisfied that it sent him all the necessary 
correspondence. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary:
On the balance of probabilities, the investigator should uphold his complaint about 
what was said at the time he took out the policy.
He has scanned his e-mail account and he didnt receive anything from PG before 
July 2019: in its response to his complaint, PG said that it posted the documents to 
him.
PG hasnt kept him appropriately informed.
It took him a long time to track down PG due to its lack of communication. 
PG missold him the policy and if it had treated him fairly, he would have been able to 
address this much sooner. 
The investigator considered what Mr B said but it didnt change her view. Mr B asked that an 
ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out the policy in June 2013. Potentially, his complaint about the policy could have 
been outside the time limits set out in the rules under which we operate. But as PG has 
consented to us looking at the complaint, I dont need to consider whether its out of time. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mr R but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says that the sales person put pressure on him to agree to take out the policy. We are 
dealing with events some years ago and Mr Bs allegations arent specific in relation to the 
pressure he says was exerted by PG. On balance, I dont think I can safely conclude that PG 
put pressure on Mr B to take out the policy.
PG says - and I accept - that this was a non-advised sale. That means that it didnt give Mr B 
advice about the suitability of the product but provided him with information. PG has 
provided a screen shot of its system which indicates that it sent Mr B the relevant 
documentation by e-mail in June 2013. On balance, Im satisfied that it was sent. PG isnt 
responsible for any defects in the e-mail system. I appreciate that in its final response to    
Mr B, PG said that it sent the documents by post. I think that was a mistake, but it doesnt 
alter the outcome here. We wouldnt expect PG to send documentation separately to Mr R.
The policy provides that the term of the policy is the same as the frequency of the payment 
of the premium - monthly in this case  and renews automatically each time the premium is 
received. It says that the policy will continue automatically while the premium is paid. So, 
there wasnt an annual renewal of the policy. Neither the policy terms nor the premium 
changed over the years, so PG didnt have cause to contact Mr B. The monthly premium 
was being deducted from Mr Bs salary, so he should have reasonably been aware that the 
policy was in place.
Mr B says that it took him a long time to track down PG due to its lack of communication. But 
as the premium was deducted from his salary, his employer may have been able to help him 
with more information. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that PG treated Mr B or Mr R unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman