DRN-4260848
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded the money he lost when he fell victim 
to an investment scam.
Background
In 2021, Mr J fell victim to an investment scam. He entered into a conversation with one of 
the regulars at the gym he attends. That person encouraged him to invest his money. He 
said hed been working with the support of an individual who could invest money on Mr Js 
behalf. Mr J says he was sceptical about this, but this person showed him his bank 
statements as evidence of the returns he was earning from his investments.
I understand Mr J spoke to the scammer on the phone. He was invited to visit the companys 
offices, but this wasnt possible. Instead, I understand Mr J met the scammer face-to-face at 
a service station. This individual told him about the trading strategies he used  these 
included investments in cryptocurrency, but also investments tied to foreign exchange 
movements, commodities such as gold and the use of automated trading strategies to 
generate generous returns.
Mr J says he looked up the company that hed be paying his money to. On seeing that it had 
a legitimate footprint on the Companies House register, he was satisfied that it was likely the 
investment was a genuine one. He agreed to transfer his money. He was asked to sign two 
documents in connection with the funds he was transferring. These documents werent 
agreements that set out how Mr Js money would be managed. Instead, they were 
unregulated loan agreements between Mr J and the scammer. Mr J loaned the money to the 
scammer who promised him monthly repayments and an eventual return of his capital. He 
made his first two payments on 4 October 2021  each for £10,000. He went on to make four 
more payments of £5,000. According to Mr Js representatives, the perpetrator of the fraud 
has since been arrested and is under active police investigation.
Mr J complained to Lloyds. It investigated and agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr J lost 
to the scam. However, it didnt think it needed to refund the full amount. It pointed out that it 
had displayed warnings when Mr J made these payments online. It considered that he 
shouldve taken greater care and that he lacked a reasonable basis for believing that this 
was a legitimate investment opportunity.
Mr J disagreed with the response he received from Lloyds and so he referred his complaint 
to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who concluded that Lloyds offer was fair 
and reasonable. She agreed that Mr J shouldve been more cautious before agreeing to 
transfer his money. She came to that conclusion for the following reasons:
- Mr J had some experience of investing in cryptocurrency and so shouldve been 
more sceptical about someone promising guaranteed returns.
- The scammer didnt provide anything to show that he was actively investing Mr Js 
funds, albeit he did provide generic updates about his trading activities to other 
investors via a social media platform.
- The contract Mr J signed didnt mention anything about the investment and this ought 
to have been a cause for concern.
She wasnt convinced that Lloyds had contacted the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that 
operated the fraudsters account  as quickly as it shouldve done. However, given the 
timescales involved, she considered that there was no prospect of recovering Mr Js funds.
Mr J disagreed with the Investigators view. His representatives responded on his behalf. 
They pointed out that other investors received returns for many months before the scammer 
ceased all contact. The sole director of the company has been connected with multiple 
limited companies that have generally only operated for short periods before being struck off 
the register. The proposal was made more plausible by the fact that there was a genuine 
company on Companies House. It also pointed out that Mr J visited the companys office 
which contained multiple employees giving him the confidence the investment was 
legitimate. Visiting the office and seeing them on Companies House makes this incredibly 
convincing
Because Mr J disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. The starting position under the Code is that banks should refund customers 
who fall victim to scams like this one, unless it can show that one of the exceptions in the 
Code applies. 
Lloyds has agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr J lost here. Its decision to not refund him 
relies on one of the exceptions in the code. Lloyds considers that Mr J didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was entering into a legitimate investment. The crux of this 
complaint therefore is whether Mr J had a reasonable basis to believe this investment was a 
legitimate one. Ive considered that point carefully and Im not persuaded that he did. 
I accept that he was reassured by the fact that the company had a record on the Companies 
House register. However, that record described the company as an advertising agency. Its 
name was also consistent with it being involved in advertising or public relations, rather than 
investment activity.
It's also significant that the person Mr J was in contact with and had met in person wasnt 
listed as a director of the company. There have been some suggestions since that the 
fraudster used multiple names and that this was, in reality, the same person. Nonetheless, at 
the time Mr J carried out his research, Im surprised he wasnt more sceptical on noticing 
that difference.
The returns he promised were significantly more generous than one would typically expect. 
For example, he was told that a £30,000 investment would yield a return of £9,000 in three 
months without any obvious risk to his up-front capital. Such a return was clearly too good to 
be true and I think Mr J shouldve proceeded with far greater caution than he did.
It's also noteworthy that the paperwork he signed to participate in this investment didnt say 
anything about how his money would be managed  it doesnt look very much like an 
investment agreement at all. Instead, it was a short-term loan agreement between Mr J and the fraudster. Although the fraudster provided evidence to show that he was trading on a 
regular basis, there doesnt appear to have been anything shared with Mr J regarding the 
progress of his own investments  so its not clear whether his money was being invested on 
his behalf or not.
Ive also considered the further representations made by Mr Js representatives. Theyve 
said that he was persuaded it was legitimate by his visit to the companys premises. 
However, when Mr J referred his complaint to this service, he told us that he was invited to 
visit the company but that his work schedule made it impossible. The scammer agreed to 
meet him halfway at a service station  so this cant have strengthened his conviction that 
this investment was a genuine one.
I can also see that Lloyds contacted the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that operated the 
fraudsters account  promptly after Mr J notified it of the scam. Unfortunately, they werent 
able to recover any funds.
Overall, I think there were several red flags that ought to have put Mr J on notice of the risk 
that this investment wasnt genuine. I know he will be hugely disappointed by my decision, 
but I find Lloyds considered his claim under the CRM Code fairly and so Im not asking it to 
pay him further compensation. And even if I were to look at the banks other obligations in 
respect of protecting customers from financial harm due to fraud, Im satisfied it wouldnt 
justify an award of more than 50%. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman