DRN-2851156
The complaint
Miss U is unhappy that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) has declined 
a claim she made under her motor insurance policy. She is also dissatisfied that her motor 
insurance policy was cancelled by Watford.  
What happened
In November 2019 Miss Us car was involved in an accident, whilst Miss U was driving. So, 
she called Watford to make a claim under her motor insurance policy. Miss U told Watford 
what had happened  explaining she had been driving from her place of work when the 
accident occurred. 
Shortly after raising the claim, Watford told Miss U it would not be covering the loss. It said 
that Miss Ws policy only covered her to use her car for social, domestic and pleasure use 
(SDP), not for commuting. And, that because she had been using her car for commuting to 
work when the accident occurred, the loss wasnt covered under the policy.  
In addition to this, Watford also said it would be cancelling Miss Us insurance policy, as it 
noted she had breached the terms of the policy. Watford noted that its policy detailed that it 
was able to cancel the insurance immediately, if a policyholder was in breach of the policy 
terms. 
Miss U felt the above decline and cancellation was unfair. So, she raised a complaint with 
Watford about it. Watford responded to Miss U and maintained its position. It reiterated that 
Miss U didnt have cover under her policy for commuting  and so it said it was right to 
decline the claim made. And, it was satisfied it had acted fairly in cancelling Miss Us policy, 
given she had breached the terms of it by using her car to commute. Watford said that rather 
than cancelling the policy immediately, as the policy said it could, it had provided Miss U with 
seven days notice of the cancellation. And it felt it had been fair in providing Miss U with 
notice when it didnt have to.
Miss U disagreed. So, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review. 
On referring her complaint to us, Miss U said she had made an honest mistake in not 
purchasing cover for commuting when she bought the policy, and so felt Watfords decline of 
her claim and cancellation of her policy was unfair. Miss U also noted she was being chased 
by Watford, and the third-party insurer for costs in relation to the claim, as well as having lost 
the premium she had paid to Watford for the policy. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
Watford had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the 
claim and cancelling the cover. So, she didnt think Watford needed to do anything 
differently.
Miss U didnt agree. She reiterated the above points. And, she felt that Watford should have 
considered the matter under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). Miss U referred to a case study on this services website, that she felt was 
similar to her own circumstances, and noted that the case study detailed upheld that 
particular complaint. She felt the same should happen here.
Because Miss U remained dissatisfied her complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision to both parties; detailing my thoughts on this case. In this I 
said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Watford has explained that Miss Us claim isnt covered under the insurance policy she had 
 as she only had cover for social, domestic and pleasure use, and not commuting. Ive 
reviewed Miss Ws policy documents, including the relevant motor insurance certificate. And, 
having done so, Im aware Miss W didnt have cover to use her car for travelling to and from 
work. 
Given the above, Watford declined the claim Miss W made, and cancelled her insurance 
policy. It cancelled the policy using a term within it, which noted Watford was able to cancel 
the policy where there was a breach of its terms.
Ive thought about whether this was a fair and reasonable approach to take in this instance. 
And, in this case, I dont think it was.
The reason I say this is because there is law in place that deals with incidents of this nature. 
And, given there is law in place to address that type of situation  where a policyholder has 
been asked a question and answered incorrectly  I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Watford to follow this when looking at Miss Us circumstances. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This law says a consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy.
It says if a consumer doesnt do this, the insurer can take certain actions as long as the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one.
Ive looked into whether I think Miss U took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, whether the misrepresentation was qualifying and whether the action 
Watford has taken is in line with CIDRA. And I dont think it is.
Reasonable care
Miss U purchased her policy online, through a price comparison website. And all parties 
agree that Miss U didnt select cover for commuting to work. So, its not in dispute that Miss 
U did provide incorrect information to Watford. 
But, to decide whether Miss U took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, Ive 
looked at the specific question she was asked when she took out her policy. 
Ive seen screen shots of the question Miss U was asked on the price comparison website. 
And so, Im aware Miss U was asked what she used the car for. And, she was provided with 
three options to choose from when providing her answer. These were;
Social, domestic and pleasure only (SDP);Social, domestic, pleasure and commuting (SDPC);
SDPC and business use.
I think this question made it clear what information Watford needed to know. And, alongside 
the question above, there was information that Miss U could have looked at, to see what 
each of these categories meant, before answering. 
Given the clarity of the question, and Miss U knew she would be using the car to travel to 
work, I do think she failed to take reasonable care to answer this question correctly.
 
As I think Miss U failed to take reasonable care, under CIDRA, Ive needed to consider 
whether the misrepresentation Miss U made was a qualifying one, under the Act. 
Qualifying misrepresentation. 
For a misrepresentation to be qualifying, Watford would need to provide evidence to show 
that, if it knew Miss U would be using her car to commute, this would have made a difference 
to its decision about the cover offered to Miss U. 
Given this, I asked Watford what it would have done, had it known the correct information 
when the policy was taken out. This included whether Watford would have offered cover to 
Miss U at all. Or, whether it would have still been willing to offer cover, but under different 
terms.
Watford responded to me and said it would have been able to offer cover to Miss U. And, it 
wouldnt have offered the policy on different terms. The policy would have been the same, as 
would the premium Miss U would have paid for it. This information highlights that if Miss U 
had taken reasonable care, and answered the question correctly, it wouldnt have made any 
difference to Watford. 
As Watford would have provided commuting cover to Miss U for no extra charge, she didnt 
make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. In these circumstances, Watford cant 
take any action at all, despite Miss U having given it the wrong information.
Watford has said that with Miss U driving uninsured for commuting, it would have made it an 
Article 75 insurer only. But I cant see how Article 75 status would make a difference here. 
CIDRA is clear in how to consider instances of misrepresentation, and I can see no fair or 
reasonable justification to depart from this in this case.
Putting things right
As above, Watford hasnt treated Miss Us situation as a misrepresentation, and Im satisfied 
it should have. This is because I dont think its fair or reasonable for Watford to rely on 
general cancellation terms of the policy, when there is specific law in place, designed and 
detailing the approach for handling circumstances such as this  incorrect information being 
provided at the point of sale. 
As this instance should be treated as a misrepresentation, and the misrepresentation in this 
case was not a qualifying one, Watford arent entitled to take any action under CIDRA. 
In light of this, I intend on requiring Watford to reinstate Miss Us policy. And, because it 
shouldnt have been cancelled, Watford should amend any of its records, as well as any 
central databases, such as Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE), so that the cancellation is 
removed. As above, Miss U needed to make a claim under her insurance policy. And, whilst she didnt 
have cover for commuting, the information provided from Watford shows Miss U would have 
been charged the same premium, if she hadnt mistakenly selected just SDP cover, and 
instead selected SDPC. Watford hasnt lost out as a result of the misrepresentation  the 
terms and premium for the risk posed would have been the same. And therefore, Watfords 
position hasnt been prejudiced in this case, and it cant take any action under CIDRA.
And so, I think it would be fair reasonable for Watford to reconsider Miss Us claim, under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, as if she had selected cover for commuting. 
Miss U has also said that since the cancellation of her policy, she has had to seek another 
policy. But she has noted that the premium for the new policy is higher  because she had to 
declare a previous policy cancellation. As Miss U wouldnt have had to declare a cancellation 
of this policy had it not been for Watford actions, Im satisfied Watford would also need to 
refund Miss U the difference between the premium she would have paid without declaring 
the cancellation, and the premium paid because she did. Watford will also need to pay 
Miss U interest on this amount.
My provisional decision
Given the above, Im intending on upholding this complaint, and requiring Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to do the following;
Remove the cancellation of Miss Us policy from any internal and external databases.
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, as 
if Miss U had selected cover for commenting
Provide Miss U with a refund for the difference in premium she has had to pay, 
because obtaining a premium with a declared cancellation was more expensive, as 
described above. Watford should also pay 8% interest on the total premium, from the 
date Miss U paid the increased premium, to the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible. 
If Watford thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss U how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Miss U responded to my provisional decision and agreed with this. Watford responded and 
didnt agree. It said that its position on the matter remained the same. It said it didnt 
consider the case to be one of misrepresentation, and therefore it didnt feel the law 
surrounding this  CIDRA  applied. It also reiterated its position that that Miss U had 
selected the cover she wanted (social, domestic and pleasure use) and then had used the 
car for a purpose for which she had not intended to be insured  this being to commute. And 
as such, it said Miss U uninsured when the accident occurred  and as a result Watford was 
an Article 75 insurer only. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Watford has said it doesnt consider this case to be of misrepresentation, and therefore that 
CIDRA does not apply. And that Miss U was uninsured whilst driving, and therefore was an 
Article 75 insurer only. 
I discussed these points in my provisional decision  detailing why I considered that it would 
be fair and reasonable in this case to apply CIDRA. As well as why, based on CIDRA, I 
considered it reasonable for Watford to reconsider Miss Us claim. So, I wont repeat these 
here. But its important to note that I havent seen any new points or evidence that has led 
me to think my previous thoughts should alter in this regard. 
As such, my decision does remain the same as that noted in my provisional decision  and 
for the same reasons.
My final decision
In light of the above, I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the 
following;
Remove the cancellation of Miss Us policy from any internal and external databases.
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, as 
if Miss U had selected cover for commenting
Provide Miss U with a refund for the difference in premium she has had to pay, 
because obtaining a premium with a declared cancellation was more expensive, as 
described above. Watford should also pay 8% interest on the total premium, from the 
date Miss U paid the increased premium, to the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible. 
If Watford thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss U how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman