DRN-3974030
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC made errors when switching its bank 
account leading to inconvenience and business disruption.
What happened
A applied to Lloyds to switch its account from a different financial business. The director 
contacted Lloyds when the switch was due to take place as he hadnt received a card, 
paying in book, card reader or PIN. He was told that the address linked to the account had 
been incorrect. And that the items needed to be ordered again. He says he was told not to 
take card payments and so lost business.
Lloyds said in its final response that it had provided a poor service and that the items had in 
error been sent to an incorrect address. It couldnt explain why. It offered to pay A £150 and 
cover its call costs. And it said it would consider any claim for business losses if A provided 
evidence. When it submitted its business file to this service it said that in fact no items were 
sent to the incorrect address. But that these had been referred rather than produced which 
it thought was due to the address mismatch. The card was dispatched on 1 March 2022 to 
the correct address. It considered that the compensation offered was fair.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do more than it had offered to. There was an 
error made and this caused a delay in A receiving the card, PIN and paying in book. She 
couldnt see evidence that A had been told by Lloyds not to use the account in the 
meantime. And nor had the account been blocked so that payments couldnt be accepted. 
The only restriction was to prevent items going to the incorrect address. She didnt think that 
Lloyds should pay further compensation.
A didnt agree. The director pointed out that the final response letter had said that a block 
had been placed on the account. He insisted he was told not to use the credit card machine 
to take payments as it would compromise the business. He said he felt insulted to be told 
that hed misunderstood things. And he asked what he had to gain for A by not using the 
card machine given the impact on the business and that his customers were unhappy with 
this. He thought there had been a breach of data protection by the wrong address being 
used.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2023. I set out below what I said.
I explained that I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened and I would be thinking 
about what is most likely based on the information and submissions made.
A applied for an account switch and took all the steps Lloyds said were necessary. I could 
see from its account statement that the final balance from its previous bank was transferred 
to Lloyds on 25 February 2022 and that other credits were sent on. There was no use of the 
account after 28 February 2022 until a direct debit payment on 10 March 2022. And money 
was paid into the account the next day.
Id listened to recordings of calls with the director provided by Lloyds including a number on 
25 February 2022. For reasons which arent clear an incorrect address was associated with 
As account. A card, PIN and paying in book were ordered. During one call the director was 
told that he could go to a branch to make transfers if he had photo identification and that if 
he had problems the branch could phone a central team. He was told that his new account 
wasnt frozen but that his account with the other bank would be closed. 
On 28 February 2022 the director also spoke to Lloyds. He was asked that day about a 
payment into the account which had come from his merchant services provider. During that 
call the director explained hed borrowed £5,000 from a family member and was using 
another account to arrange for essential business payments. Again, Lloyds said that the only 
option to access As account was to go to a branch until the items arrived.
When the director spoke to the complaints team on 12 April 2022 he said hed been told not 
to use his credit card machine to process payments. And that all he could do was take cash 
payments. He later estimated that the loss in sales for A was some £866 as a result. He 
wanted £1,000 in compensation but Lloyds offered £150 plus an allowance for call costs 
which A rejected.
My assessment
As I referred to above I thought it was apparent on 28 February 2022 that payments were 
still being received to As account. While I could understand that the director may have been 
worried if his card and other items had been sent to another address I didnt hear him being 
told by Lloyds that the account was blocked from being used. He was told he could access 
the account through a branch. And I understood that the switching arrangement would mean 
any credits would be diverted to the new account for a period. So, I didnt see that he was 
told not to use the card machine due to any concerns about possible fraud on the evidence. 
And why as hes said to this service he couldnt use this until 13 March 2022. So, I said I 
wouldnt be making any award for any related financial loss A has asked for as I didnt think 
that Lloyds is fairly responsible for this.
A was clearly caused inconvenience. It needed to contact suppliers and make special 
arrangements for payments. It had to borrow money and the director spent time on the 
phone trying to get things addressed. A could reasonably have expected the switch to go 
smoothly given the notice given. Its been given inconsistent information about whether for 
example a card was actually issued to the wrong address. But even if that was as Lloyds 
now say referred rather than produced on 17 February 2022 Id seen no evidence Lloyds 
took any action about that until the director phoned on 25 February 2022. And the actual 
card was sent out on 1 March 2022 and was due to be with A by 6 or 7 March 2022. It also 
seems that no steps had been taken to ensure A was set up for online banking and I could 
see that an application was acknowledged on 3 March 2022.
I could appreciate that A didnt consider the branch provided assistance when the director 
first visited. But he was told on the phone he could use the account from the branch. That 
would have still been inconvenient but a way of accessing the funds in the account.
A is a limited company that cant suffer distress. And as it is a separate legal entity I couldnt 
consider distress caused to the director by what happened. I could consider the ongoing 
inconvenience which arose from the error by Lloyds and the steps A reasonably needed to 
take to mitigate what happened that Id set out. 
Id taken into account our published guidelines about compensation. Having considered all 
the relevant factors here my provisional view was that compensation of £400, and so an 
increase of £250, is a fair amount to reflect what happened and all the steps I accepted A as a result needed to make and the inconvenience. I noted too that the final response letter 
didnt give what Lloyds now says is the correct information about what happened and largely 
seemed to repeat what the director had said during a call. 
I knew that the director of A would be disappointed with my findings as these dont 
correspond with his recollection and the compensation is less than he wanted. I said that A 
remains free to pursue this matter in court if it doesnt accept my decision when it becomes 
final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it had nothing further to add.
A didnt agree and the director said that the compensation fell short of what was required. He 
said that the timeline for the switch ought to have been seven to ten days not some six 
weeks. The delay called into question what Lloyds had said. And in the final response it had 
said that items had been sent out and the account blocked. But after this service became 
involved Lloyds had changed what it said, and he thought that this meant that a mistake had 
been made which it was trying to cover up. The director said he wished he could prove that 
he'd been told not to take card payments because A as a micro business had made losses 
as a result. He understood that I couldnt make an award for his stress. But he wanted me to 
understand what had been involved and that A had no realistic and local choice for any other 
bank. And he set out the weeks that had passed since the switch request was made and that 
the account wasnt properly up and running until 14 March 2022.
I appreciate what A says about the total time the switch took. But here I think the most 
relevant period is that after its original bank account was closed. When a switch is made in 
this way both banks involved have to set a switch date. And that here seemed to be 25 
February 2022 as this was the date that As previous bank sent the account balance to 
Lloyds. The point is that the account with Lloyds ought to have been operational by then and 
it wasnt.
Ive looked at all the information and listened to the call recordings provided in coming to an 
assessment. I appreciate and had set out in my provisional decision that Lloyds hasnt been 
consistent in what its said. But I didnt hear or see evidence that it told A not to take card 
payments but instead said that the account could be used through the branch. It didnt send 
the card, PIN and other items to A in a timely way and there was clearly a mistake in 
recording the address. I remain of the view that I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible 
for a financial loss to A. And that I need to assess the inconvenience caused and the steps A 
needed to take. Im afraid that having done so I still consider that £400 remains the 
appropriate total level of compensation for this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay A a total of 
£400.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman