DRN-1328478
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Virgin Money plc charged a late payment fee; a failed payment charge 
and withdrew her promotional interest rate on her credit card when her direct debit payment 
failed.
What happened
Mrs S has a credit card with Virgin Money that she repays by direct debit. But in July 2019 
she had issues with her phone which meant she wasnt able to transfer money into her 
current account to cover the direct debit, and so it was returned as unpaid.
She made the payment as soon as she realised the issue, and Virgin Money received it 
three days later than the date of the direct debit. But she was charged a £9 late payment fee 
and a £9 failed payment fee, and Virgin Money withdrew a promotional interest on her 
balance transfers, which meant that she would be charged interest on her balance two years 
earlier than she wouldve done. 
Mrs S complained that this was unfair. She said Virgin Money had set the date for the direct 
debit, and felt that it was an abuse of its position for this to be the final date the payment 
could be made. She said shed been punished three times and wasnt given any scope to 
rectify a minor payment issue. 
Virgin Money said the action it had taken was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
credit card agreement. But it applied an interest waiver for the following month, with interest 
applying normally after that. 
Mrs S was able to repay her balance before her next statement and so didnt incur the 
interest. But she had to use savings that were intended for other purposes, so she said she 
wanted the promotional interest rate reinstated, and then this payment returned to her. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. This 
was because she didnt think Virgin Money had acted unfairly or incorrectly, as the 
withdrawal of the promotional rate and application of fees was done in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. And she said the reason the direct debit had been returned 
wasnt because of an issue with Virgin Money. 
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings. She said her point was that Virgin Money had 
deliberately set the payment date to work in its favour and it is unfair on customers as it 
allows fees and interest to be charged. If the date had been one or two days earlier, then this 
issue wouldnt have arisen. She felt this went against treating customers fairly and said there 
should be some leeway in the terms and conditions for her circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate Mrs Ss point about the date set for the direct debit to be taken, and this leaving 
no allowance of any time to correct problems that may arise in meeting that payment on that 
date. But equally, notice of the payment is given in the monthly statement which shows the 
amount and date. And although I acknowledge that there may be an unexpected or sudden 
issue that may impact on a payment being made; the customer is made aware in advance 
that sufficient funds should be available in the account the payment is to be collected from. 
I also dont think the setting of the due date to be towards the end of the payment period is 
unusual for credit card accounts, and wouldnt consider it to be unfair in these 
circumstances. The payment date is also set at roughly the same time each month, so the 
customer is able to plan for the direct debit time. 
I can also see from the statement that there are other ways that a payment could be made 
such as; by debit card or bank transfer, which would mean that the customer could make a 
payment before the due date when they wanted, if they weren't happy with the timing of the 
direct debit to use that method.
Mrs S accepted the terms of the credit card agreement when she applied for it, and this 
includes what would happen if the minimum required payment isnt received on time: 
If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit limit, 
we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement period. 
When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the current standard interest rate 
that applies to that transaction.
If we do not receive the Minimum Payment by the payment date, we will apply the late 
payment default charge set out in our Tariff. We will also let credit reference agencies know 
you have not paid and this could make it more difficult for you to get credit. If you continue to 
miss payments, we may apply for a court order (an inhibition order if you are based in 
Scotland) to enforce payment of the total balance, for example, from your income or the sale 
of your property (which may include your home). Alternatively, we may sell the debt and the 
buyer may follow a similar process to recover the amount you owe.
Taking everything into account, although I appreciate the banking difficulties Mrs S had at 
the time and her efforts to resolve the payment issue as soon as she could, I dont think 
Virgin Money acted unfairly in applying the terms of the credit card when Mrs Ss direct debit 
payment was returned as unpaid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman