DRN-3590288
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a Select Platinum Rewards Account (SPRA) in 2018 by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), and that RBS did not close his SPRA in 2021 when he 
asked it to.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, Mr L complained about other packaged bank account sales before 2018, but 
these complaints were ruled out of this services jurisdiction by another ombudsman, so I 
cant look at those.
Mr L says that he was told he had to have a SPRA to get a mortgage.
RBS says it didnt tell Mr L that and it says that it has sent copious literature to Mr L which 
shows that there is no connection between having an SPRA and getting a mortgage.
I wasnt in the discussion about the account in 2018, so I can only look at the evidence 
available to me today.
RBS has provided evidence that by 2018 Mr L had held both fee free and fee-paying bank 
accounts for many years. And in my view opportunities to get mortgages without holding a 
fee-paying account were widely advertised and available from RBS and other financial 
institutions in 2018.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr L knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
SPRA and he chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence that RBS did an assessment of Mr Ls circumstances as I would 
expect to if it was recommending the SPRA or advising him to take it. And this service is 
aware that RBS sales were generally non-advised at this time.
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale. So, RBS was only 
required to provide Mr L with enough information to make an informed decision.
And I think it did. 
I say this because RBS has provided evidence of the welcome pack it sent out to him, which 
contains information about the costs, key benefits, and limits on cover. 
Mr L seems to have been aware of the benefits as he registered phones for insurance cover 
after the sale, so I think its more likely than not that he received this information. And there 
wasnt anything that RBS didnt tell Mr L that I think would have put him off it.
So, I think its more likely than not that RBS didnt do anything wrong in the 2018 sale.
Mr L says that RBS didnt stop the SPRA charges when he asked it to. But RBS has 
provided a copy of his request dated 30 August 2021, which it replied to on 1 October 
detailing what he had to do to close the account. In my view, this was not an unreasonable 
response time.
So, I dont think RBS did anything wrong in this matter either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman