DRN-3226802
The complaint
Mr T complained about delays he experienced when he requested copy account statements 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard).
What happened
In January 2021, Mr T contacted Barclaycard using their online secure message system. He 
requested past statements covering a period of seven years. Hed tried to obtain the 
information using Barclaycards on-line banking service without success. He said they could 
send the statements to him electronically.
Barclaycard said their online service only provided transactions for the last 12 months. They 
said theyd order paper copies, but they couldnt be sent electronically. So, Mr T agreed and 
asked Barclaycard to order the statements.
A week later, Barclaycard confirmed that Mr Ts request had been forward to the relevant 
department and they will contact you shortly. Two days later, Barclaycard said that 
statements for 2014 had been ordered and would take 15 working days. They also 
confirmed that statements for 2015 to 2020 would normally take four to five working days but 
suggested that the Global Pandemic impact may delay these.
In early February 2021, Mr T contacted Barclaycard again as he hadnt received any 
statements. So, Barclaycard raised a complaint for him. Barclaycard wrote to Mr T 
apologising for their poor service. They upheld his complaint and paid compensation of £50. 
They said the statements had been requested for immediate print and would be sent to him.
Mr T still didnt receive the statements. So, he continued to contact Barclaycard throughout 
February 2021. On one occasion, his call was on hold for more than three hours without 
managing to speak to anyone. He also used Barclaycards secure messaging service. They 
said theyd passed his query to their Customer Relations Team. But Mr T heard no more. 
So, he wrote to them on 22 February 2021 to complain again. Mr T decided to refer his 
complaint to this service when he didnt receive a response.
Mr T continued to chase Barclaycard into March 2021. He said he had a legal right to access 
his personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the statements 
shouldve been provided within one month to comply with that regulation. But Barclaycard 
continued to say theyd referred his query to their Customer Relations Team.
Mr T finally received some of the statements on 16 March 2021. But these excluded 
statements from 2014, 2015 and 2018 together with some months from other years. On the 
same date, Barclaycard wrote to Mr T. They upheld his complaint and paid him a further 
£50. They also said they have now sent his statements. They apologised for the call 
waiting times Mr T had experienced and that hed been given incorrect information about 
their complaints team opening hours. 
Despite this, Mr T wrote to Barclaycard again on 1 April 2021. He said he still hadnt 
received all the statements requested. On 24 April 2021, Mr T received statements for 2014 
and 2015 together with duplicates of statements already received. But he was missing one 
from January 2016.
Mr T was still unhappy with how Barclaycard had handled things. He thought his request for 
statements constituted a Subject Access Request (SAR) under GDPR and they shouldve 
provided the information within 30 days. He was also unhappy with how Barclaycard handled 
his complaint together with the level of compensation paid by them. He said Barclaycard 
shouldve been able to provide the statements in an electronic format to comply with a SAR 
rules under GDPR.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. She agreed that Barclaycard had 
made mistakes. But she thought that Barclaycard had acted fairly in apologising to Mr T and 
paying compensation. She also thought that the compensation paid of £100 was reasonable 
and that they didnt need to do anything more. She didnt agree that requesting copy 
statements constituted a SAR. Mr T didnt agree with our investigator and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 24 November 2021  giving both Mr T and Barclaycard the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
The circumstances relating to Mr Ts complaint are quite clear. And I agree that 
Barclaycard made mistakes in the way they handled Mr Ts request. Barclaycard 
have agreed that, upheld Mr Ts complaint and apologised for his experiences with 
them. I believe this was the right thing to do in these circumstances. 
Mr T is unhappy with the way Barclaycard handled his complaint. Im aware that our 
investigator has explained to Mr T our jurisdiction as regards complaint handling. But 
for completeness, I want to confirm our position. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook includes Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP) which detail what we can and cant consider. Under those rules, this service 
can only consider complaints that relate to a regulated activity. These activities are 
set out in the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Handbook. Complaint handling is 
not a regulated activity. So, unfortunately, Im unable to consider any part of Mr Ts 
complaint relating to that aspect.
Mr T has also suggested Barclaycard shouldve treated his request for copy 
statements as a SAR. I can understand why Mr T might think that. However, I can 
also understand why Barclaycard also might not treat it as such. Particularly as a 
request for copy statements wouldnt be considered unusual and should, ordinarily, 
be addressed promptly as part of their general service offering.
In reality, the key issue here is the delay experienced by Mr T following his original 
request in January 2021. Whether that be a general service issue or in response to a 
SAR. Barclaycard have accepted they got things wrong and paid a total of £100 
compensation to Mr T to reflect that.
I think its important to explain that It isnt the role of this service to supervise, 
regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also not our role to ask a business to 
alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements on the level of service 
offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  
in this case, the FCA. But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business 
has been fair and reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures 
are applied in the individual circumstances of Mr Ts experience with them 
When Mr T wrote to Barclaycard on 22 February 2021, he said these statements 
will assist me with the Inheritance Tax submission I still need to complete. HMRC 
guidance states You must pay Inheritance Tax by the end of the sixth month after 
the person died. In the same letter, Mr T told Barclaycard that the individual 
concerned died in November 2020. So, I think it should have been clear to 
Barclaycard that delivery of the statements was time critical. Despite this letter, it was 
a further two months before the statements were finally received by Mr T.Having considered our own guidance around compensation, I dont think Barclaycard 
have done enough here. I think Barclaycards mistake caused significant 
inconvenience and disruption for Mr T that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. And 
given that the delays lasted almost four months, I can appreciate how this might have 
caused further distress and worry. So, I intend to ask Barclaycard to pay an 
additional £200 to Mr T to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Barclaycard, having considered Mr Ts complaint again, confirmed theyd like to settle the 
case based upon the intended outcome detailed in my provisional decision.
Mr T said that a letter that Barclaycard claim to have sent to him in March 2021 was never 
received. He also pointed out that Barclaycard never acknowledged his letter of 1 April 2021. 
However, he has confirmed that hes prepared to accept my provisional decision.
So, on the basis that Ive not seen anything more that persuades me to change my mind, my 
decision will remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require Barclay Bank UK PLC to pay Mr T compensation of 
£200 in addition to the two payments of £50 theyve already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman