DRN-1911643
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc handled things after she made it 
aware that she had been the victim of a scam. 
Ms M has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease of reference, I have 
referred to all submissions as if made directly by Ms M.
Background
In June 2019, Ms M made a credit card payment of £1,024.38 via an international payment 
service to an individual claiming to offer holiday accommodation.
The website the individual was advertising from appeared to be legitimate, but Ms M became 
suspicious when her follow-up emails regarding the accommodation werent answered. A 
friend of Ms Ms in the travel agency industry researched the accommodation and found the 
owners details. When contacted, the owner confirmed she had no booking in Ms Ms name 
and the advertisement wasnt legitimate.
Once Ms M realised shed been the victim of a scam, she contacted Bank of Ireland. This 
happened on 3 July 2019.
Ms M explained that when she advised Bank of Ireland that shed been scammed, she was 
initially sent the wrong claim forms  and the incorrect return address, which was only 
identified after several follow up calls. At this point Ms M was advised to re-send her claim 
forms and she also logged a complaint. Ms M has explained she suffers from an illness 
which is worsened by stress. She says she made Bank of Ireland aware of this when logging 
her complaint and feels Bank of Irelands actions have contributed to her symptoms 
worsening.
Bank of Ireland agreed that it had made errors when handling Ms Ms claim. It initially paid 
Ms M £30 and has since offered a further £125 in its final response letter in recognition of 
the additional stress it had caused. However, it said it wouldnt refund the payment made to 
the scammer because Ms M had willingly authorised it. 
Ms M was unhappy with the response from Bank of Ireland and so contacted this service. 
Her complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
consider the payment to be unusual enough that it shouldve been identified as potential 
fraud by Bank of Ireland, particularly as the payment was made via credit card which is a 
payment method often used for higher value purchases. The investigator also thought that 
the offer of compensation Bank of Ireland had made was fair.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said Bank of Ireland could have 
temporarily stopped the payment until it had confirmed with her that it was both a legitimate 
payment and recipient. She also thought Bank of Ireland should offer a greater sum of 
compensation. Because Ms M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been passed to me to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an authorised payment even though Ms M was the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
She requested for the payment to be made so, although she did not intend the money to go 
to the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Ms M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Bank 
of Ireland should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Ireland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms M when she carried out this payment to a fraudster, or whether it should 
have done more than it did. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Bank of Irelands actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
payment to be made from Ms Ms credit card, so I cant fairly say Bank of Ireland should 
reimburse Ms M the payment she lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Ms M has accepted that she authorised the payment of £1,024.38 herself. Because of this, 
Bank of Ireland had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
payment - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Bank of Ireland 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Having said that, Ive also considered that this payment was made on Ms Ms credit card and 
by their nature, credit cards are often used for larger value purchases. Having reviewed Ms 
Ms account activity for the 12-month period leading up to the scam, I can see this was the 
largest payment made in that period, but that Ms M was regularly using her credit card to 
make payments before the scam took place. This wasnt an excessively large value payment 
and Ms M was still within her agreed spending limit following the scam. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think that this transaction was so unusual that I can say Bank of Ireland 
acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. Ive also considered the offer of compensation Bank of Ireland has made to Ms M in 
recognition of the errors made when logging her claim. I can see that, despite Ms M calling 
Bank of Ireland several times for updates on her claim, Bank of Ireland didnt identify it had 
made an error for around three weeks. At this point it was also made aware of Ms Ms health 
condition and prioritised her claim, as well as freezing the interest on her card temporarily. 
Im sorry to hear of the additional stress Bank of Ireland caused Ms M at an already difficult 
time for her and the impact this has had on her health. I think the overall offer of £155 that 
Bank of Ireland has made is a fair way to acknowledge and compensate Ms M for the upset 
caused. 
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Ms M has been through here. But unfortunately, Im 
not persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of Bank of 
Ireland  so whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint her, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
ask Bank of Ireland to refund the loss.
My final decision
Bank of Ireland has already made an offer to pay £155 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. Its my understanding that Bank of Ireland hasnt yet 
paid £125 of this offer.
So my decision is that Bank of Ireland should pay Ms M £125.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman