DRN-1765148
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold a level term assurance policy by Legal & 
General Partnership Services Limited ("L&G").
What happened
In 2019, while in the process of changing their mortgage lender, Mr and Mrs S's attention 
was drawn to a level term assurance they'd had in place since 2010. The purpose of the 
policy was questioned and they were made aware that it wasn't a requirement for them to 
have the policy as they'd believed. They duly cancelled it and complained to L&G.
The policy had originally come about when, in 2010, Mrs S had contacted L&G in respect of 
an existing decreasing term policy they held to protect their mortgage. Mr S had some health 
issues at the time and Mrs S wanted to check that there were no implications for the 
decreasing term policy.
As a result of this contact it appears a call was made to Mr and Mrs S by L&G in which it was 
suggested they could reduce the cost of their mortgage cover by starting a new decreasing 
term policy. Up to that point they'd been paying £33.80 each month. They were provided 
with a new quote for the same level of cover, decreasing over a matching term, for only 
£28.21 per month. At the same time it was suggested they could take out an additional level 
term assurance policy with cover of £10,000 over the same term for only £5.68. So, they'd 
have more cover overall for slightly less than they'd been paying previously. This was 
accepted and the new policies started. 
When Mr and Mrs S complained in 2019 L&G didn't uphold the complaint. In brief, L&G felt it 
had been made clear that the additional level term policy had been optional, for the purpose 
of family protection and separate to the mortgage protection.  
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached a different 
conclusion to L&G. He found Mrs S' recollections that she'd simply accepted the adviser's 
recommendation without question, as her attention was focussed on Mr S' health issues, 
quite plausible. He didn't think that the level term policy had been suitable for Mr and Mrs S 
as there was no defined need for it. And he felt the rationale provided in the sales 
documentation - that it would help cover credit card debts and funeral costs - wasn't 
appropriate given the limited term of the policy and the likely fluctuation of the credit card 
debt going forward. 
The investigator recommended the complaint should therefore be upheld and L&G refund 
the premiums paid to the policy, plus interest. 
L&G didn't accept the investigator's view. It said that the policy hadn't just been to protect the 
credit card debt and Mr and Mrs S hadn't been required to take out either policy. It said the 
term was intended to match with Mr S' expected retirement and the level of premium had been dictated by the desire to not spend more than they'd been paying for the 
existing decreasing term policy. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
On the face of it, it's quite feasible that Mr and Mrs S might have wanted to take advantage 
of the saving on their mortgage cover to take out some additional general protection.
But they didn't approach L&G looking for savings or additional cover. Rather, it seems they 
made contact because they were worried about how Mrs S' ill heath might affect their 
protection. So in this context, I'm not persuaded they were in a position to make a fully 
informed decision about whether they wanted or needed the extra cover.
I'm particularly concerned that part justification for the sale was that it could provide cover for 
funeral costs. While this might well have been the case in the unfortunate event that either 
Mr or Mrs S had prematurely passed away, at the time they were only in their very early 50s 
and it seems unlikely that meeting funeral costs would have been a priority for them.
I accept that the reference to funeral costs may have been noted simply as just one example 
of the type of general costs that a £10,000 payout could potentially be used for - along with 
the credit card debt. But it doesn't give me confidence that the adviser really presented a 
credible and appropriate justification for the sale. 
And, importantly in my view, the recommendation doesn't actually appear to have led to Mr 
and Mrs S saving any money. Despite the initial low quotes for the two policies it seems they 
actually ended up paying a total of £36.61 - several pounds more than they had been paying 
prior to contacting L&G. So there wasn't even a financial benefit to the arrangement - it didn't 
meet any requirement to pay no more than they were already paying. 
Additional life cover is, of course, always nice to have. But in this case I'm not persuaded 
that, in the shape of this policy, it was something Mr and Mrs S either wanted or needed. In 
short, I'm not satisfied it was suitable or fully justified for them.  
Putting things right
L&G should refund to Mr and Mrs S all the premiums paid to the policy, plus interest on each 
premium at 8% simple from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Legal & 
General Partnership Services Limited to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020. 
James Harris
Ombudsman