DRN-3757736
The complaint
S complains that Experian Limited has failed to provide services as agreed or forward an 
invoice in good time. 
What happened
S signed up for Experians Business Express and Prove ID services, both of which come 
with fees. But S says it experienced problems with both services that meant it was unable to 
access them as agreed. S also says that Experian failed to send invoices for its services for 
tax purposes. S raised a complaint with Experian. 
Experian issued a final response and said the Business Express service had been disabled 
for security reasons as S hadnt accessed it for an extended period. But Experian reactivated 
the service and confirmed it was available to use. Experian said there were issues when the 
Prove ID service was set up initially but that it had fixed them. Experian confirmed the Prove 
ID service had also been activated and apologised for the initial issues. Experian also 
arranged for an up to date invoice to be sent to S. 
S referred its complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Experian had dealt with S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. S asked to 
appeal, so its complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian has explained that because of the way its systems works, it places a block on 
some services when they arent used for a long time. In S cases, the Business Express 
service was temporarily disabled because of the length of time that passed between uses. 
After S contacted Experian, the service was activated and became available for us without 
restriction. Im satisfied S couldve contacted Experian to gain access if it found the online 
service wasnt working. 
In a similar way, the Prove ID service can be temporarily disabled if not regularly used. But 
Experians confirmed there was a technical issue at play as well. Whilst thats the case, 
Experian was able to quickly resolve the problem when it was raised by S. And the Prove ID 
service was full operational at the point S referred its complaint to us. Whilst I can see there 
were issues with the Prove ID service, Im satisfied they were resolved and that Experian 
apologised. In my view, thats a fair way to resolve the issues raised. 
Experian confirmed S invoice was delayed. But Experians confirmed the invoice has been 
sent to S and Ive seen a copy. I appreciate there was some inconvenience cause S here, 
but I havent seen anything that shows it led to a loss for the business. 
Im sorry to disappoint the directors of S but as Im satisfied Experian dealt with its complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman