DRN-3935107
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC transferred money into the wrong account. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr A asked his bank in America to transfer $53,000 to his Barclays dollar 
account in the UK. He said that when filling out the form he gave the exact details of the 
account he wanted the money to be paid into. However, when he checked, he saw that the 
funds had been converted into sterling and put into his Everyday Saver Account. 
Mr A contacted Barclays and was told that the IBAN he had provided was for his savings 
account and not his currency account. When asking if the process could be reversed and 
done again, the advisor explained it was possible, but that it would incur further charges. 
Mr A complained as he didnt know that there were different IBANs for different accounts. He 
said that given he had specified the sort code and account number for his currency account 
on the form, someone from Barclays should have contacted him to see which account he 
wanted the payment made into. He also didnt want to incur any further charges in correcting 
the issue. 
Barclays responded to Mr As complaint and explained that they applied the funds to the 
account specified on the instruction. They said that each account has its own unique SWIFT 
code and IBAN details, and that these could be found on the statement that Mr A received 
for his currency account each month. Barclays explained that contacting customers to clarify 
details of payments isnt something they do. Instead, they ask all customers to make sure 
the correct payment details are provided before they submit any requests. 
As they had sent the money to the account specified on the primary instruction, they 
wouldnt be willing to do anything further. They said that to refer to the payment note instead 
of the IBAN would go against industry-wide practice. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays had acted correctly in complying with the 
IBAN instruction given by Mr A. While he understood Mr A had left a note specifying the 
details of his currency account, he couldnt hold Barclays responsible for the money being 
paid into the Everyday Saver account. He asked Barclays for a copy of the At a glance 
document and explained to Mr A that the IBAN was shown clearly. Because of this, he 
concluded that no error had been made. 
Mr A responded and said hed never been sent a statement for his currency account. He 
accepted that he did receive the At a glance statement but that the IBAN for his currency 
account wasnt shown anywhere on it. He also explained that when asking staff members 
about the correct IBAN, they too werent able to locate it. 
Our investigator acknowledged this but explained there was a responsibility for a customer 
to give the correct details when requesting any transaction. He couldnt see that Mr A had 
contacted Barclays to check that the IBAN was correct. 
Mr A remained unhappy. Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Following my review, I asked Barclays for some further information on where the correct 
IBAN appears on Mr As statements. They explained that while the currency statement may 
not have been sent to Mr A by post, it is uploaded to his online banking platform and also the 
banking app each month, so is always available to view. On this statement, the IBAN is 
clearly shown in the top right-hand corner. 
Barclays also provided a screen shot showing that the statements are sent each month and 
said that Mr A has the option to set a preference and choose whether he wants to receive 
statements online or through the post. 
Barclays also said that instructions on how a customer can find their IBAN is listed on their 
website, and that there is also an IBAN generator tool. Their webpage also explains where 
customers can find this information on their statements.
In relation to the notes section of the payment form, Barclays confirmed that they act on the 
account details provided and not the notes section, as they need to act on the account 
details over anything else. I dont find this to be unreasonable. 
Mr A has said he doesnt use the Barclays app, however given the currency statement is 
available for him to view online, I cant say that Barclays never made him aware of the 
correct IBAN. And while I know Mr A put the correct sort code and account number in the 
notes section of the form, I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in paying the money 
into the account listed in the payment section. 
Regarding the notes section of the form, I do appreciate that a customer would, 
understandably, believe that anything put in that section would be considered. However this 
notes box didnt ask for a sort code and account number, and as explained, I cant say that 
Barclays were wrong in paying the funds into the account connected to the IBAN Mr A 
provided. 
Barclays have adhered to the terms and conditions of the account by taking the IBAN that 
was on the instruction, and they have shown that there were multiple places that Mr A could 
have checked for the correct one  including the IBAN generator tool.
While I appreciate Mr A has said that multiple members of staff werent able to find the 
correct IBAN when he asked, this doesnt mean it isnt there. And while Mr A may not be 
able to find it easily, as a service we wouldnt be able to ask Barclays to change their online 
platform or change where or how statements are displayed, as that is their business decision 
to make. 
Because of this, Im not able to ask Barclays to transfer the money into Mr As currency 
account and waive the charges involved with that.I understand Mr As frustrations, and while I know this isnt the outcome he was hoping for, I 
hope I have clearly explained my reasoning on why Im not able to ask Barclays to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman