DRN-2870877
The complaint
Miss P complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss P was provided with four loans by Lending Stream between November 2018 and April 
2019. The details are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 14/11/2018 Outstanding 6 £210.00
2 09/01/2019 Sold 6 £200.00
3 03/03/2019 Sold 6 £140.00
4 05/04/2019 Sold 6 £120.00
Miss P says that the loans shouldnt have been provided. At the time of the loans she says 
she had several other debts outstanding and had defaults on her credit file as well as a debt 
management plan. She says the loans were unaffordable. 
Lending Stream upheld Miss Ps complaint regarding loan 4. It said that before all loans 
were provided it carried out affordability and credit worthiness checks and these showed that 
all four loans were affordable. However, it noted the number and timing of the loans and 
thought that it might not have been reasonable to provide the fourth loan. It offered to refund 
the interest on this loan along with 8% simple interest and to remove any adverse 
information about this loan from Miss Ps credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. She thought it reasonable that Lending Stream had upheld Miss Ps 
complaint in regard to loan 4.
Miss P didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
lent to her. She said it was aware after loan 2 that she had missed payments and that her 
hours had been reduced. Miss P says she was heavily indebted and had loans with several 
other pay day lenders at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P was provided with four loans by Lending Stream. Before the loans were provided 
information was gathered on Miss Ps income and expenses. The first loan was provided in 
November 2018 and Miss P declared a monthly income of £1,250 and expenses of £1,076. 
The monthly repayments were £75. As this was Miss Ps first loan and considering the 
repayment amounts compared to her monthly income I find the checks carried out at this 
time were proportionate. As these suggested the loan was affordable I do not find that I can 
say Lending Stream was wrong to provide this loan.
Miss P took out a second loan before the first was repaid. At this time, she had been 
maintaining her payments on the first loan. The second loan was for £200 with monthly 
payments of just over £60. As the first loan was still outstanding I have considered the total 
amount repayable for loans 1 and 2 compared to Miss Ps declared income (£1,000) and 
disposable income (£300). Given this was still early in the lending relationship and Miss Ps 
payment history didnt raise concerns, I do not find that I have enough to say at this stage 
that further checks were required. As the checks undertaken suggested the loan was 
affordable I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.Loan 3 was provided in March 2019 and was for £140. Loans 1 and 2 were still outstanding. 
Miss P had maintained her repayments on loan 1. She made the full payment on loan 2 in 
January 2019 but only made a partial payment in February. While this could have suggested 
Miss P was beginning to struggle with her payments, I do not think that by the time loan 3 
was provided there was enough to say that Lending Stream should have been aware that 
Miss P was struggling to manage her money. Considering the total amount repayable under 
the three loans, compared Miss Ps income I do not find I have enough to say that further 
checks were needed. As the loan appeared affordable based on the information received, I 
do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
By loan four, I agree that further checks should have taken place to ensure the lending was 
sustainable. Lending Stream upheld Miss Ps complaint in regard to this loan and I find this 
reasonable. 
Lending Stream has explained that it currently holds loan 1 and loans 2, 3 and 4 are with a 
third party. As it upheld Miss Ps complaint in regard to loan 4 it has said it will buy back this 
loan and refund the interest and fees paid along with 8% simple on this amount. It will then 
offset the refund against Miss Ps outstanding balance on loans 1 and 4 which would leave 
an amount outstanding of £108.24. It has also said it would remove any adverse marks on 
Miss Ps credit file related to loan 4. As this redress is in line with what we would usually 
recommend I find that Lending Streams offer is reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream 
regarding loan 4 is reasonable. As Lending Stream has offered it should:
buy back loan 4 and refund all interest and fees paid this loan along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*; and
remove any adverse marks on Miss Ps credit file related to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to take off tax 
from this interest. Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream must give Miss P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman