DRN-3609949
The Complaint
This complaint concerns claims against Mitsubishi HC Capital UK PLC (trading as Hitachi
Capital Consumer Finance) (Hitachi) under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  in relation to a
holiday product Mrs H and her husband bought on 6 March 2013 (the Time of Sale).
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mrs Hs because they relate to a 
loan in her sole name  which is why the complaint is only in her name. But as the claims 
concern a holiday product sold to Mrs H and her husband, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs H 
throughout much of this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs H purchased Trial Membership in a holiday club (the Club) at the Time of Sale 
from a timeshare provider (the Supplier). The purchase price was £3,995 and in return for 
that they were provided with five weeks of accommodation over the course of three years. 
They were also offered a promotional holiday called a Prelude (the Prelude) that activated 
their Trial Membership once the Prelude was taken.
Mr and Mrs H financed their purchase by way of a 24 month Fixed-Sum Loan Agreement 
from Hitachi (the Credit Agreement) in Mrs Hs name.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, it looks like Mr and Mrs H wrote to 
the Supplier using a representative (R) on 5 January 2017 to make claims in relation to a 
number of purchases (the First Letter of Claim)  including their Trial Membership. The 
Letter was forwarded on to Hitachi on 16 January that year. And insofar as the allegations in 
that Letter related to the purchase that this complaint is concerned with, they can be 
summarised as follows:
The behaviour of the Suppliers representatives contravened the requirements of 
professional diligence by supplying alcohol to them before the purchase. That was likely 
to have materially distorted the economic behaviour of Mr and Mrs H  breaching the 
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (the CPUT Regulations).
The behaviour of the Suppliers representatives contravened the requirements of 
professional diligence in regard to the availability of narrow boat holidays. That was likely 
to have materially distorted the economic behaviour of Mr and Mrs H  breaching the 
CPUT Regulations.
Trial Membership was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs H because they were told that they 
could holiday at any of the Suppliers resorts and on narrow boats when that wasnt true.
On 19 January 2017, the Supplier wrote to R with its response to the First Letter of Claim. 
And in summary, it said the following:
Guests attending a promotional meeting were never under any obligation to make a
purchase and were at liberty to leave  which Mr and Mrs H did without initially making a
purchase.
Trial Membership was on sale for many years. But it was temporarily suspended for a
period before being re-introduced in 2013.
Subject to availability, mini breaks were available to Trial Membership members at
selected resorts. However, not every resort offered such breaks and that was clearly set
out in the sales material and information given to Mr and Mrs H at the Time of Sale.
Canaltime was not one of the resorts included in the Trial Membership portfolio. But
short breaks on narrow boats could be offered to members and this was explained to
Mr and Mrs H in April and May 2013 when they contacted the Supplier to discuss the
issue.
While Mr and Mrs H were adamant that they understood that all of the Trial Membership
resorts were open to mini breaks, their complaint about that issue was addressed by the
Supplier and a short time later in June 2013 they chose to upgrade their membership.
Yet, if they had not been entirely happy with the Suppliers explanations and their
membership in general, it is rather puzzling that they went on to make two further
purchases.
Information in relation to a sales presentation is given both orally during the booking
process and again in writing on the booking confirmation thats sent to members before
they travel.
There is nothing improper about offering an on-the-day reduction in price as customers
are protected by the statutory 14-day cooling off period.
A bottle of Cava may well have been given to Mr and Mrs H to enjoy later in the comfort
of their apartment but as a general rule alcohol is rarely served at the Suppliers sales
presentations.
The documentation given to Mr and Mrs H at the Time of Sale clearly explained that mini
breaks were subject to availability and were only available at selected resorts.
On 13 June 2017, R wrote to Hitachi on behalf of Mrs H to make claims under Sections 75 
and 140A of the CCA in relation to the sale of her and Mr Hs Trial Membership (the Second 
Letter of Claim). In summary, that Letter repeated the allegation of misrepresentation that 
had been made in the First Letter of Claim. R made the point that Mr and Mrs H made no 
use of their Trial Membership because they upgraded to the Fractional Property Owners 
Club in November 2013. And it suggested that there had been the following breaches of the 
CPUT Regulations at the Time of Sale:
Mr and Mrs Hs presence at the Time of Sale was solicited by the offer of what was said 
to be a free holiday, which was in reality a disguised invitation to a sales presentation.
Mr and Mrs H were targeted by the Suppliers sales representative after having been 
supplied with alcohol  which was likely to have affected their judgement  contrary to 
Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
The Supplier invited Mr and Mrs H to purchase Trial Membership at a specified price with 
the intention of promoting a different product  contrary to Schedule 1 of the CPUT 
Regulations.
The Supplier falsely stated that Trial Membership would only be available for a limited 
time or only available on particular terms for a limited time in order to elicit an immediate
decision and deprive Mr and Mrs H of the opportunity to make an informed choice.
On 24 July 2017, Hitachi sent its final response to R  having treated Mrs Hs claims as a 
complaint. The letter referred to the Section 75 claim, but it made no mention of her claim 
under Section 140A. And in short, Hitachi rejected the complaint.
On 26 September 2017, a complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It 
was looked at by an investigator who, having not been persuaded that there had been any 
misrepresentation at the Time of Sale or that the relevant debtor-creditor relationship was 
likely to be found unfair by a court, rejected the complaint.
R disagreed with the investigators assessment for a number of reasons, which in summarywere as follows:
In Rs view, even after paying for Trial Membership, the rights of members were 
immediately compromised because it was impossible to use their membership without 
first taking the Prelude.
Mr and Mrs H made no use of their Trial Membership because they traded it in for 
membership of the Fractional Property Owners Club.
Mr and Mrs H favoured short breaks on narrow boats, as evidenced by their history of 
holidaying in that way. So, the Suppliers misrepresentation in relation to the availability 
of short breaks on narrow boats is important.
As the investigator and Mr and Mrs H (and R) couldnt agree on an informal resolution of this 
complaint, it was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) 
on 22 June 2022. And, in summary, I wasnt persuaded that the Sections 75 or 140A claims 
should succeed.
Mrs H disagreed with my PD. But she had nothing further to add. And Hitachi didnt respond.
So, the complaint has now come back to me to consider for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise
that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H. But I hope theyll understand why Ive
come to the conclusion I have.
Before I explain why, I want to repeat what I said in my PD about my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Hitachi doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs H entered into a contract with the Supplier for
services financed by a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. And as Im satisfied that
Section 75 applies, if I find that the Supplier is liable for having misrepresented to
Mr and Mrs H their Trial Membership, Hitachi  as the creditor  is also liable.
On my reading of this complaint, the only allegation of misrepresentation remains that which 
relates to what they say they were told about being able to holiday on narrow boats when 
that wasnt true.I continue to recognise that there are a number of other concerns about the way in which 
Trial Membership was sold to Mr and Mrs H by the Supplier. But the allegation Ive referred 
to above is still the only one that strikes me as one of misrepresentation about an existing 
fact. And for that reason, the other concerns are better dealt with under Section 140A.
As I said in my PD, there are three questions to consider when determining the merits of a
misrepresentation allegation:
1. Did the Supplier make the representation in question?
2. If the answer to Question 1 is Yes, did the representation amount to a false statement of 
existing fact or a statement of opinion that  having amounted to a false statement of 
existing fact  can be shown to be an opinion that the Supplier didnt hold or couldnt 
reasonably have held?
3. If the answer to Question 2 is Yes, did the false statement induce Mr and Mrs H into 
purchasing their Trial Membership?
In Mr and Mrs Hs witness statement of 20 September 2016 (Witness Statement), they said
that they were told by the Supplier that they could take short breaks at any of its resorts 
which included its narrow boats. And they also said that, being able to take such breaks
(especially on the narrow boats) was important to them because the breaks were only £59 or
so and they normally take a lot of weekend/mid-week breaks.
Having looked at the Trial Membership Information Statement (the Information Statement),
mini breaks were available to Mr and Mrs H as members at selected resorts. So, their
Membership couldnt have been misrepresented to them on the basis that they werent able
to take short breaks at all. But as the Supplier said in its letter of 19 January 2017, the use of
narrow boats wasnt included in their membership  contrary to what they say they were told.
It isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what Mr and Mrs H were or werent told by
the Supplier at the Time of Sale. And in the end, the part their testimony plays here comes
down to how much it can be relied on given everything else thats been said and/or provided.
Point four of the Trial Membership Members Declaration (the Members Declaration), which
I think was likely to have been read by Mr and Mrs H as it was only a page long and signed
and initialled by them, clearly suggests that they were only entitled to holidays in apartments:
3. We understand that accommodation may be taken in hotel or studio units (sleeping a
maximum of 2 persons), 1 bedroom units (sleeping a maximum of 4 persons) or 2
bedroom apartments (sleeping a maximum of 5 persons), Unit sizes very from resort to
resort and are subject to availability. Maximum occupancy levels include children.
4. We understand that we will only be entitled to occupation of weeks in Apartments
and at Resorts available to our Trial Membership, accommodation varies from resort to
resort, the allocation is subject to availability and demand. Specific details of the
accommodation and facilities at each CLC resort are available from the brochure or at
[the] time of booking. [my emphasis added]
And the Information Statement also only describes Accommodation in similar terms to point
three of the Members Declaration:
Accommodation may be taken in hotel or studio units (sleeping a maximum of 2 persons), 1
bedroom units (sleeping a maximum of 4 persons) or 2 bedroom apartments (sleeping a
maximum of 6 persons). Specific rules and additional fees apply to lodges (supplement),where available, and details should be checked before making a reservation request. []
So, as the allegation in question seems to be contradicted by some of the contemporaneous
paperwork and isnt reliably corroborated by any other information on file, Im still not 
persuaded it should succeed on the evidence available.
Whats more, as I said in my PD, the Supplier suggests in its letter of 19 January 2017 that it 
had already dealt with a complaint from Mr and Mrs H in 2013 about the fact that they 
couldnt use their Trial Membership to holiday on narrow boats. Yet, not long after that 
complaint, they upgraded their membership. And as they still havent provided a credible 
explanation for why they did that if the Suppliers alleged misrepresentation was as 
significant as they and R now suggest it was, I still find that decision difficult to explain.
I know that R says Mr and Mrs H favoured holidays on narrow boats because they had a 
history of taking them. But that seems to me to be at odds with what they had to say in 
paragraph nine of their Witness Statement about why the ability to take short breaks, 
including those on narrow boats, were important to them. And, as I said in my PD, the 
evidence provided by R in response to the investigators assessment doesnt support its 
contention. It still isnt clear to me why photos of a generic resort schedule and pages from a 
generic brochure proves the point that Mr and Mrs H had a long-standing and specific 
interest in narrow boat holidays  especially when the pages in the brochure concentrate on 
holidays aboard large cruise liners rather than narrow boats.
So, overall, while I accept its possible that the sale of Mr and Mrs Hs Trial Membership 
involved a factual and material misrepresentation, Im still not persuaded its probable given 
the particular circumstances of this complaint and the available evidence.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs H and Hitachi
was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as it is relevant law, when deciding what a
fair and reasonable outcome is in this complaint given its particular circumstances, I still
have to consider it along with what I think a court is likely to conclude.
And having done that, Im still not persuaded a court is likely to reach the conclusion that the 
relationship between Mrs H and Hitachi was unfair.
As I said in my PD, the protection offered by Section 140A isnt a right afforded to a debtor 
simply because of a breach of a legal or equitable duty1. So, while R says that there were 
several breaches of the CPUT Regulations, for example, the effect of those breaches on 
Mrs H and the decision she (and Mr H) made at the Time of Sale is also important.
It was said by the Supreme Court in Plevin that, even when there are features of a
transaction that operate harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow that the
relationship was unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to protect legitimate
interests.
The Supreme Court also made the point in Plevin that relationships between businesses and
private individuals are often characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise 
which means theyre inherently unequal as a result. And as such, it cant have been
Parliaments intention that such relationships should be liable to be reopened for that reason
1 The Supreme Court said in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin) (at paragraph 17):
Section 140A [] does not impose any obligation and is not concerned with the question whether the creditor or anyone else
is in breach of a duty. It is concerned with [] whether the creditors relationship with the debtor was unfair.alone. And while the Court did say that an inequality of knowledge and understanding is
capable of making a relationship unfair, it felt that the imbalance had to be sufficiently
extreme in order to come to that conclusion.
R says that the Supplier contravened the requirements of professional diligence in regard
to the availability of narrow boat holidays  which was likely to have materially distorted the
economic behaviour of Mr and Mrs H, thus breaching the CPUT Regulations. But given my
reasons for concluding that there hadnt been a factual and material misrepresentation of
Mr and Mrs Hs Trial Membership, I still dont think it can be said that the relevant 
relationship was unfair for that reason.
As for the other concerns expressed by R, according to Mr and Mrs Hs Witness Statement,
it wasnt until after they had agreed with their family that they were interested in purchasing
Trial Membership that they say they were provided with alcohol. So, Im not persuaded that
their decision to purchase Trial Membership was affected in the way R suggests it was.
Mr and Mrs Hs Witness Statement also makes it clear that they refused to purchase full
membership from the Supplier because it was a big commitment. And as they were still
unsure about Trial Membership some way into the sales presentation, its also clear that they
felt able to leave the presentation in order to discuss the prospect of it with their family. With
that being the case, Im still not persuaded that Mr and Mrs H made their purchase because 
their ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired 
contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations. And as they had the wherewithal to opt 
for Trial Membership rather than full membership, even if it could be said that they were 
invited to purchase one product when the Suppliers intention was to promote another, I cant 
see why that led to any loss.
In response to the investigators assessment, R suggested that, as Trial Members, 
Mr and Mrs Hs rights were immediately compromised because they had to take the Prelude 
before being able to take the five weeks of holiday they purchased. But as I said in my PD, 
that condition was made clear in their signed Members Declaration. So, I think that was 
something they knew they had to do. And for that reason, I dont think it led to any unfairness 
 especially when the Prelude came at no cost to Mr and Mrs H other than the cost of travel.
And while I continue to recognise that Mr and Mrs H had to attend a sales presentation 
during the Prelude that then led to them upgrading their membership, that wasnt an 
inevitability  especially when they had already shown a willingness to say no to the 
Supplier. And while they didnt make any use of their Trial Membership, that still seems to 
me to have been the result of the decision they made to trade in their Membership and 
upgrade shortly after the purchase in question.
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court is likely to conclude that the relationship
between Mrs H and Hitachi was unfair. And for that reason, I dont think Hitachi has to do
anything further in relation to Mrs Hs Section 140A claim.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman