DRN-3556160
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs G used to hold with Santander UK Plc. 
Theyre unhappy that Santander sold their mortgaged property and disposed of its contents. 
They say theyve lost the home they intended returning to, and all their personal 
possessions.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in 
rather less detail than has been presented, using my own words and rounding the figures 
involved.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from our 
investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to repeat all the 
details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Mr and Mrs G being identified. I will therefore keep my 
summary of the complaint quite brief.
Mr and Mrs Gs interest-only mortgage with Santander was due to end in March 2014. That 
date passed without the mortgage being repaid, although monthly interest instalments 
continued. Santander wrote periodically to Mr and Mrs G at the mortgaged property, asking 
when and how the mortgage would be repaid. These letters went unanswered, and in 2018, 
Santander applied to the courts for a possession order. The order was granted and when it 
enforced the order, Santander found the property to be furnished but unoccupied. Santander 
instructed a property management company to manage the property and prepare it for sale.
Mr G phoned Santander in May 2019; it seems he and Mrs G had been living and working 
abroad for several years, during which time Santander hadnt had any contact details for 
them. New details were taken for Mr G, and Santander explained that if they wanted to avoid 
the house being sold, Mr and Mrs G would need to repay the mortgage in full. It told them 
they should contact the property management company about the house contents. If they 
didnt, then the contents would be disposed of. Santander also said that a new legal charge 
needed to be executed; this was duly arranged, and Mr and Mrs G signed it. However, they 
didnt clear the mortgage or get in contact with the property management company.
Santander went ahead with selling the mortgaged property, and the sale completed in 
January 2020. After the mortgage and associated costs had been repaid, there was a 
surplus; Santanders solicitors asked for bank details so pay the surplus into. Mr and Mrs G 
complained, saying the house had been sold, and the possessions disposed of, without their 
knowledge. Santander rejected the complaint, and when it was referred to us, our 
investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
If the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or simply disputed, we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, decide how much weight should be attached 
to it, and what conclusions can be drawn from it. When doing that, we dont just consider 
individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion 
on the whole picture. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems to me that this complaint is more straightforward than it has been 
made to look. Ill explain why.
First of all, I dont have to consider whether Santander was wrong to seek possession of the 
mortgaged property after all of its attempts (of which there were many) to contact 
Mr and Mrs G about the expired mortgage and overdue debt failed to get a response. By 
granting the possession order, the court validated Santanders actions as being fair, and it 
isnt appropriate for me to second guess the courts decision.
Once the order had been granted, Santander appointed a management company to secure 
the property and prepare it for sale. Thats quite normal; its what Id expect a lender in 
possession to do. Whats also normal is for the lender  or its agent  to liaise with the 
borrowers regarding any personal possessions in the property. The complication here was 
that Santander had no way to do that, because it didnt know where Mr and Mrs G were and 
had no means of contacting them. 
I make that point because Im satisfied from having considered everything that both parties 
have said and provided that Mr and Mrs G never gave Santander an address or phone 
number overseas before the phone call in May 2019. Thats a separate breach of the 
mortgage contract in itself, aside from the breach caused by not repaying the mortgage 
when it fell due. Santander had made efforts to trace Mr and Mrs G, but without success. 
Overall then, Im satisfied that the first opportunity Santander had to tell Mr and Mrs G about 
the possession and how to retrieve their belongings was in the May 2019 phone call. Theres been a lot of argument about what was, or wasnt, said in that call. Given its 
importance, its a shame Santander cant produce a recording of that call, but I read nothing 
sinister into that. Call recordings arent kept indefinitely; a year is a typical retention period 
and in this case, that had already passed before the significance of the call would have 
become apparent. In contrast, several calls from 2020 (made after the complaint started so 
not directly relevant to what happened to cause the complaint) have been made available, 
because they were still within the retention period. 
Getting back to the key call from May 2019, what that means I have to rely instead on the 
parties recollection of what was discussed. These are quite different, but in the case of 
Santanders recollection, that means the notes it recorded contemporaneously. The value of 
such notes being contemporaneous is that they should reflect what was said and agreed at 
the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory, or more generally influenced by hindsight. 
Santanders notes indicated the conversation was with Mr G, and Mrs G was present in the 
background. The notes record that due to a title issue  subsequently resolved by the 
execution of the new charge  it hadnt yet sold the house. To avoid the property being sold, 
it said Mr and Mrs G would need to repay the outstanding debt (around £30,000) plus 
associated costs in full, but it would need proof of funds first. On the subject of personal 
belongings in the property, the notes say Mr B was given a number to call (the property 
management company) for more information.
On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied Santander told Mr and Mrs G in May 2019 
everything they needed to know if they wanted to save their home and/or the contents of it. 
At that point, it was up to Mr and Mrs G to either come up with proof of funds to repay the 
mortgage and/or contact the management company and make whatever arrangements were 
necessary. Santander wasnt required to prompt them, remind them, or wait indefinitely for 
them to do so either or both of those things. 
Ill deal next with the issue of the new legal charge. The backdrop to this is that at some 
stage after the mortgage expired in 2014, Santander mistakenly removed its charge from 
HM Land Registry, and this wasnt picked up until after the possession order had been 
granted. Asking Mr and Mrs G to execute a new charge remedied that error. 
Mr and Mrs G say they were told executing the new charge would prevent them from losing 
the house and now feel deceived. Ive looked hard through all of the evidence from both 
sides, and I havent found anything that would lead me to think Santander, or the solicitors 
acting for it, tricked Mr and Mrs G into executing the new legal charge. Also, Santander did 
tell Mr and Mrs G in the May 2019 phone call that the issue with the title was why it had not 
yet tried to sell the house. So Im not sure how Mr and Mrs G could reasonably have inferred 
that executing the new charge would protect them from the house being sold. But in any 
event, nothing turns on this because Santander already had possession of the mortgaged 
property; it would also still have had an equitable charge over the property.
If the legal charge had been cancelled in error, there was nothing wrong in the bank putting 
this error right. If Santander thought it necessary to correct the error in order to preserve its 
position, I find that was a reasonable thing to do in all the circumstances. Everything has a 
context, and here, that context was that Mr and Mrs G had been in breach of the mortgage 
contract for several years, having not repaid the outstanding balance when due, and until 
very recently having been out of contact for just as long.I said earlier that after the May 2019 conversation, Santander didnt need to prompt, remind 
or wait indefinitely for Mr and Mrs G to take steps to avoid the property being sold and/or its 
contents being disposed of. When they did neither of those things, Santander was fairly and 
reasonably entitled to sell the property. It did that by putting it into auction in the autumn of 
2019, and the sale completed in January 2020. 
Santander, via its solicitor, then did what Id expect a responsible and reasonable lender to 
do; that is, contact the borrowers and ask for bank account details so it could pay them the 
surplus funds. There was nothing miraculous about it being able to contact them in this 
way, as Mr and Mrs G have suggested. Theyd given Santander their contact details in 
May 2019. This was just the first time since then that Santander had any obligation to use 
those contact details.
Mr and Mrs G have talked in great detail about the pressures they were under where they 
lived during this period. But if they were able to engage with Santander to execute the new 
charge, its not unreasonable to conclude they could also have engaged with the property 
manager about removing their belongings from the house, or indeed try to secure finance to 
clear the debt altogether. That they didnt do so isnt down to Santander. 
Mr and Mrs G have said they were given assurances from Santander  or its solicitor  that 
the house wouldnt be sold. One reason they say they were given was the impact of the 
COVID pandemic. Ive scoured the contemporaneous contact records for evidence to 
support this, without success. What is on record, as Ive alluded to already, is Santander 
telling Mr and Mrs G in May 2019 that they needed to repay the mortgage in full to avoid the 
house being sold. As for the potential impact on the pandemic, the sale completed in 
January 2020, several months before lenders were instructed by the FCA to place such 
activities on hold. 
I have no doubt that losing their property has been a horrible and distressing experience for 
Mr and Mrs G; and I do understand why they see Santander as being the cause of that. The 
reality, however unwelcome or unpalatable they might find it, is that Mr and Mrs Gs current 
position is not down to any act or omission on Santanders part. 
Once contact with them was re-established in May 2019, Im satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that they knew what they needed to do to secure the personal belongings 
(contact the managing agent) and what to do to prevent the property being sold (obtain 
funds to pay off the outstanding mortgage debt). It was then up to Mr and Mrs G to take 
whatever steps were necessary to achieve those things. Insofar as they didnt do either, 
Santander could reasonably proceed with the sale of the property and the disposal of its 
contents, without referring back to Mr and Mrs G.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mr and Mrs Gs submissions the intensity with which they have 
brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank has 
done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when 
youre as close to a situation as Mr and Mrs G have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.Mr and Mrs G dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Gs right to take legal action against Santander over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman