DRN-2226053
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that the consent to let fee applied to their mortgage by Santander 
UK Plc was unfair. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a residential mortgage with Santander. They applied for consent to let 
the property. They say the fee charged by Santander is out of proportion with the work 
involved, unfair, discriminatory against their mortgage product and profiteering. 
Our investigator said Santanders mortgage fees tariff sets out a consent to let fee for 
standard mortgages. The tariff says it can charge a different fee when customers have a 
flexible product, as Mr and Mrs H have. Santander said Mr and Mrs H could change to a 
standard mortgage and pay the lower fee. The investigator said Santander applied fees to 
Mr and Mrs Hs account in line with the mortgage terms and its tariff and it hadnt acted 
unfairly.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mr H said the outcome was unfair and unreasonable and allows 
Santander to write unfair terms of which he was unaware. He said it was unfair for 
Santander to impose charges against him for choosing one of its better products. Mr H said 
it was obviously not sensible to change to a standard mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have a residential mortgage. The terms of their mortgage say they cant let out 
the property without Santanders written consent. Santander has a process for deciding 
whether to give consent. It also charges a fee. 
If Mr and Mrs H had a standard mortgage the consent to let fee would be £295. This is set 
out in Santanders tariff of mortgage charges. However, they have a flexible mortgage. The 
tariff of mortgage charges says the fee may vary for flexible mortgages and will be advised 
by its lettings team. 
I think Santander was entitled, by the mortgage terms, to set a different consent to let fee for 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. 
Mr H says it wrong only to consider whether Santander acted within the mortgage terms  
which it writes itself. I agree. I could still find that Santander treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly, 
even if it acted in line with the mortgage terms. However, I dont think thats the case here. 
When Santander offered Mr and Mrs H a residential mortgage, this was on the basis theyd 
live in the property throughout the mortgage term. The mortgage offer said theyd need 
Santanders written consent to let the property, which it would give at its discretion and on 
the terms it considers appropriate. 
If Mr and Mrs H had a standard mortgage and wanted consent to let their property, theyd 
pay the standard fee. This would allow them to let the property for a set time period. Theyd 
have to take out a buy to let product when their existing mortgage product ended. Buy to let 
mortgage products are generally more expensive than residential products. 
Mr and Mrs H could have switched to a standard mortgage and paid the lower fee. But 
Santander allowed them to pay a one-off fee and retain their flexible mortgage This fee was 
higher than the standard fee. But it allowed Mr and Mrs H to retain the benefits of their 
flexible mortgage  including a residential interest rate  while letting out the property.
I think its fair for Santander to apply a fee to cover its costs of considering Mr and Mrs Hs 
request. The fee paid by Mr and Mrs H wasnt just to cover Santanders administrative costs. 
It was also to secure the benefits of the flexible mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H chose to pay the one-off fee, to retain the benefits of their flexible mortgage 
while they let out the property. I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances to require 
Santander to waive or refund all or part of the consent to let fee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman