DRN-4418270
The complaint
Mr C complains about the price quoted by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C received a quote to renew his policy for 2023 which was significantly higher than what 
hed paid the previous year. Mr C says he looked on LVs website to see why his price had 
increased as much as it did, and he says it referred to various storms which had led to 
insurers having to pay out more in claims. Mr C says these storms occurred around five 
months before he renewed his policy in 2022  and the price for this policy actually reduced 
compared to his 2021 renewal  so he questions why it impacted his 2023 renewal. Mr C 
says he called LV to discuss the price and they offered him a discount  but Mr C declined 
the renewal. Mr C says he then took out a policy with another insurer for a cheaper price.   
Mr C feels LV are increasing their prices based on questionable and misleading information. 
Mr C says he asked LV for more detailed information to explain the price increase, but they 
wouldnt provide this, so he complained.   
LV responded and explained they cant share the specifics on how they calculate premiums 
as this is business sensitive information. They explained they take many different factors into 
consideration when calculating a renewal, such as, personal details, claims, conviction 
history, property and the area a customer lives in. They said there are also external factors 
they consider such as the rising cost of claims. They said they also use their claims 
information to understand how often and how much their customers are claiming for, which 
is always changing, depending on things like the weather and parts costs and availability. 
They explained insurers are seeing a lot more claims due to an increase in the frequency 
and severity of weather events, and because of inflation, claims are now costing more. LV 
said, over the last couple of years, the amount they paid on claims has increased 
significantly. 
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr C unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr C paid a premium of £260.73 in 2022 but then received a quote for £368.06 in 
2023  this is around 41% more than what he paid the year before. So, I understand why   
Mr C is concerned about the price increase. LV have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mr Cs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im 
satisfied the price he has been charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive 
seen no evidence that other LV customers in Mr Cs position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but I can see the 
main factor which affected the price for Mr Cs policy was changes to the base rate  and 
this is driven by claims inflation and the increase in claim costs paid by LV. LV explain this 
has been applied to all policies. I think thats important here as it demonstrates the pricing 
model used to calculate Mr Cs premium was no different to what was used for any other 
customer in the same circumstances. Mr C may feel this is unfair, but LV, like all insurers, 
will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the 
premium. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the pricing structure 
and Mr C hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their 
approach.  
 
LV have described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the 
expected costs they underwrite and how this led to Mr Cs premium increasing at renewal. In 
addition to this, I can see LV did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr C that he could shop 
around to see if he could get a better price. Its not clear when Mr C first took out his policy, 
but if there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording about the 
benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr C fairly, I think LV have also acted in 
line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I can see, when Mr C raised a query about the price, LV did apply a discount. I can see this 
was a discretionary discount and often insurers will do this as an attempt to retain a 
customers business. So, Im satisfied the discount they applied here wasnt to correct a 
mistake theyd made with the original quote but was as a result of a discretionary discount. 
So, I think LV increased Mr Cs premium at renewal correctly in keeping with the changes 
made to their risk ratings and underwriting guidelines. And, in addition to this, I think they 
treated Mr C fairly and reasonably in applying a discretionary discount. 
I do appreciate Mr C will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response to his questions 
to LV. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers explanation will 
often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think LV have acted unreasonably in not 
providing a response to the specific questions raised by Mr C. I also note Mr C declined LVs 
offer of renewal and he took out a policy with another insurer for a cheaper price. I do 
acknowledge why this will concern Mr C but its for a business to decide what risks theyre 
prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply 
different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher premium has made an error 
compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different 
approach theyve decided to take to risk.  
I can see LV, in their complaint response, refer to information on their website which helps to 
explain how their prices are calculated. Mr C explains he visited the website, and this 
referred to the claim costs paid out as a result of storms. I acknowledge Mr C questions why 
the storms didnt appear to have an impact on his 2022 renewal  which was five months 
after the storms  but did impact his 2023 renewal which was 17 months later. I do 
acknowledge Mr Cs points, but the first point I would make is that the information on LVs 
website relating to the storms appears to be generic information to help customers understand the reasons for the rising cost of home insurance. The specific section says, 
insurers paid out £473 million[for storm claims]. Its been well publicised that home 
insurance has increased over the last year due to the rising cost of settling claims, so I cant 
say the information provided by LV is misleading. 
In addition to this, and as mentioned above, its for an insurer to decide what risks theyre 
prepared to cover and what ratings and loadings to apply. And if LV did decide not to place 
any additional loading, or increase their base rate, five months after the storms, it doesnt 
mean its unfair for them to make those changes to their policies a year later. As Ive 
mentioned above, all insurers will review their approach to risks at different points. So, I cant 
say LV have acted unfairly if they decided to apply any changes in 2023 rather than 2022. 
Mr C also refers to the factors LV have referred to in their complaint response to justify a 
price increase and explains these dont impact him. He says his personal details havent 
changed, he hasnt made any claims, he doesnt have any convictions, his property hasnt 
changed, and he isnt aware of any changes in the area he lives in which would affect the 
price. While I acknowledge Mr C says his personal and property details havent changed  
this doesnt mean the price will remain the same. As Ive explained, the price is affected by 
rating factors and loadings  and these will change depending on an insurers view of risk. 
Looking at the pricing information provided by LV, I can see how LVs view of Mr Cs 
property changed and how this impacted the price. I understand Mr C questions the 
information provided by LV and whether the reasons theyve given are accurate. But, based 
on the information Ive seen, I cant say LV have provided misleading or inaccurate 
information about the reasons for the increase.   
I understand why Mr C has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
pricing information from LV. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr C unfairly. I 
wish to reassure Mr C Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman