DRN-1210268
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy with a further advance on their mortgage in 2002. Mr and 
Mrs T paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It 
covered Mr T in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
By the time Mr and Mrs T applied for PPI, theyd already had their mortgage for five years, 
so they wouldve known they didnt have to have PPI with it. The policy wasnt part and 
parcel of their further advance application  it looks like it wouldve been applied for 
separately, and the further advance quote set out the PPIs cost separately to the cost of the 
loan itself. From what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, it wouldve given 
Mr and Mrs T a choice about buying PPI, and in order to get it they would need to have 
actively chosen it. And Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from 
the time, nor any evidence that Halifax significantly departed from its normal process here. 
So I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr and Mrs T aware they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr T, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr T 
was the main earner at the time, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. 
While Mr T said he had good benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
those and given him more comprehensive cover  especially when his benefits reduced to 
just a fraction of his normal pay. He only had a relatively small amount of savings, and didnt 
have any alternative cover elsewhere. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment, and if Mr and Mrs T fell behind on their payments they 
couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs T in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim, and Ive not seen any evidence showing it was unaffordable. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs T could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman