DRN-1984742
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
when he made a fraud claim. 
What happened
Mr B called Halifax on 8 June 2019, after checking his online banking hed noticed a pending 
transaction for £4,750.00 by a car dealership which he didnt make.
Mr B says when he spoke to Halifax, they told him to contact the dealership himself and 
implied hed carried out the disputed transaction. Mr Bs also unhappy that the bank told him 
it had cancelled his card on 8 June 2019. But when he followed up his complaint on 11 June 
2019, he discovered his card hadnt been cancelled
. 
On 11 June 2019, £4,750.00 was debited from Mr Bs account. But this was refunded by 
Halifax and the dealership on the same day.
 
Mr B runs his own business and says hes lost a lot of money, due to the amount of time and 
calls he had to make to the bank to ensure hed get a full refund. And he wants 
compensation for this.
Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong when it told Mr B to contact the dealership and 
had explained that it couldnt stop the pending transaction as it hadnt yet been claimed by 
the merchant. Halifax apologised for not cancelling Mr Bs card and offered to pay him 
£50.00 for the distress and inconvenience this caused, Halifax also agreed to cover all of Mr 
Bs call costs. Mr B was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to our service 
where one of our investigators looked into his complaint. 
The investigator didnt think Halifax questioning Mr B about the disputed transaction had 
been unreasonable or accusatory. She also said the bank had explained clearly that the 
disputed transaction was still pending and that it may still go through. She was satisfied that 
the bank told Mr B it couldnt stop a pending transaction. And that the bank was being helpful 
when it suggested Mr B call the dealership as a measure to try and prevent the transaction 
going through. She agreed that Halifax should have cancelled Mr Bs bank card on 8 June 
2019, and thought the banks offer of £50 plus call charges was fair. 
Mr B disagreed. He says Halifax hasnt done enough to put things right. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B is upset about how Halifax handled his complaint. And I can appreciate 
discovering just under £5,000 had been taken out of his account wouldve been quite a 
shock and upsetting for Mr B. But Ive looked at all the available evidence including listening 
to the call recordings when Mr B rang the bank.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr B says when he first called the bank on 8th June 2019 to report the disputed transaction, 
he felt the bank implied hed made the transaction. Having listened to the call, I dont 
consider Halifax implied Mr B had made the transaction. But he was questioned about the 
whereabouts of his bank card, where hed been and his recent spending in some detail. So, I 
can understand why Mr B felt the bank were implying hed made the transaction, even if it 
wasnt explicitly alleged.
Being a victim of fraud is stressful and upsetting. And it is clear from listening to this 
conversation Mr B was understandably very anxious and worried that he wasnt going to get 
his money back. So, I accept the questions wouldve been difficult for him at the time given 
the circumstances. But of course, banks do have to investigate matters where a customer is 
claiming a debit transaction on their account wasnt made by them and they are expecting 
the bank to refund the transaction.
 
I dont think its unreasonable that this would involve a degree of hard questioning so that the 
bank can get a clear understanding of what happened in order to get to the bottom of things. 
And whether their customer, as in Mr Bs case, has been the victim of fraud. So, I dont think 
I can reasonably say Halifax did anything wrong when it asked Mr B questions about the 
disputed transaction.
 
Mr B says Halifax werent helpful when he first contacted it about the fraud. And told him 
they couldnt do anything as the fraudulent transaction was still pending and hadnt yet 
debited his account. Whilst I can appreciate Mr B wasnt happy to hear this, a bank isnt able 
to refund a disputed transaction until the money has left an account. Once the transaction 
has been claimed by a merchant, it appears on the customers statement.  And it can then be 
disputed. The merchant generally has seven days or so to claim a transaction.
So, I think telling Mr B to contact the dealership was a reasonable response. In some cases, 
it can speed the process up for a customer as the merchant could reverse the transaction. I 
also note that at the time, Mr B sounded quite happy with this advice. Halifax also warned 
Mr B that the transaction would likely debit his account after the weekend. And it would then 
be able to deal with the fraud dispute. So, I think Halifax did what it could to help Mr B at the 
time and explained what it could and would do clearly.
But Mr B is right that the bank did do something wrong when it didnt cancel his bank card. 
Halifax accepts it should have provided Mr B with better service and cancelled his card when 
Mr B called the bank on 8 June 2019. Understandably, Mr B was quite upset to find out his 
card hadnt been cancelled. Hes explained that he isnt a rich man and couldnt afford to 
lose any more money by fraud. Once it realised its mistake  which was during a call with Mr 
B on 11 June 2019, Halifax rectified the situation and cancelled Mr Bs bank card 
immediately. Halifax apologised and offered Mr B £50 for any distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused. In addition, the bank also said it would cover Mr Bs call costs.
  
Mr B says this doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes been caused. 
He says he was unable to pay a bill because the disputed transaction debited his account 
and he spent hours on the phone trying to sort things out, which took him away from his 
business. But Mr B wasnt able to provide the investigator with any evidence of this when 
she asked him. I do appreciate Mr B was caused upset and inconvenience. But Im also 
mindful much of Mr Bs distress will have been suffered by the actions of the fraudster. And 
not the bank. Ive also considered that the error didnt cause Mr B any financial loss. And that he received 
a full refund of the disputed transaction within 48 hours. I can also see that Mr B made two 
calls to Halifax, the first to report the disputed transaction and another when the transaction 
debited his account, which lasted around two hours in total. So, I think Halifaxs offer fairly 
reflects the impact of the banks mistake. 
I acknowledge that Mr B has questioned how Halifax allowed the fraud to happen and what 
checks were completed by Halifax. But its not for this service to question whether Halifax 
has appropriate fraud checks in place  thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I also cant hold Halifax responsible for how a fraudster managed to get hold of 
Mr Bs bank card details in the first place.
 
In summary, whilst I know Mr B wont agree, I think the £50 plus call costs Halifax has 
offered is fair and reasonable. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything more. I simply 
leave it to Mr B to decide, whether on reflection, he wishes to accept the banks offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. If Bank of Scotland has not already done so, it 
should pay Mr B £50 for the mistake of not cancelling Mr Bs bank card. It should also 
reimburse Mr Bs call costs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman