DRN-4234304
The complaint
Mr A complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under 
his cycle insurance policy. 
Astrenska is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Astrenska has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Astrenska includes the actions of the agents.
 
What happened
In February 2023, Mr A made a claim under his cycle insurance policy with Astrenska. He 
said his e-bike was stolen from him in a park.
Astrenska asked Mr A for some documentation to support his claim, including proof of 
ownership for the bike and a police report. After Mr A provided these, Astrenska asked some 
questions and for further documentation.
After considering the information Mr A provided, Astrenska informed him it had turned down 
his claim, making reference to the fraud condition in the policy.
Mr A complained to Astrenska, who maintained its position. So, Mr A asked our service to 
consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. She thought Astrenskas 
decision to decline Mr As claim was fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said that once the claim was about to be 
settled, Astrenska had twisted everything and refused it. He said hed ordered a bike before 
the claim was settled because he was recovering from an accident and couldnt wait ages for 
them to settle his claim. He also commented that it wasnt his first time in the park, it was his 
daily routine. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining Mr As claim, Astrenska has referred to the following policy condition:
If you or anyone acting on your behalf knowingly commit a fraudulent act or submit a 
fraudulent document or make a fraudulent statement or exaggerate any claim made under 
this insurance, we will not pay the claim and cover under this and all other insurances 
currently in force with us with which you are connected will cease immediately. You will not 
be entitled to any refund of premium under any policy.
We will process your claim under the terms and conditions of this insurance based on the 
first reason notified to us for the claim. If your claim is not covered and you then submit a 
claim having changed the circumstances of the loss or damage we consider this as fraud. 
Details of all such cases will be passed to appropriate agencies for action.
Its important to explain it isnt for me to decide whether Mr A acted fraudulently. Instead, Ive 
needed to consider if Astrenskas decision to invoke the fraud condition in this case was 
reasonable.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. 
I can see that Mr A raised concerns with Astrenska about the length of time it was taking to 
process his claim around two weeks after he made it. Astrenska told Mr A it would be in 
touch about a settlement shortly. The next day it asked Mr A for some further information 
and documentation.
The following day, Astrenska told Mr A it would be providing him with a voucher for a new 
bike and sent him a link to pay his excess. Mr A said he wanted a cash settlement as hed 
already purchased a bike and Astrenska asked him to provide an invoice for it.
The terms of the policy say that Astrenska will repair, replace or pay for your cycle in the 
event it is stolen or damaged.  I think it was reasonable for Astrenska to have asked Mr A for 
evidence when he told it hed purchased a new bike before the claim had been settled. I 
acknowledge what Mr A has said about not being able to wait ages for the claim to be settled 
as he was recovering from an accident. However, hed only made his claim around two 
weeks before.
Astrenska says the invoice Mr A provided for the replacement bike was modified. When it 
spoke to Mr A, he said hed cancelled his order and had purchased a bike from a different 
retailer. Astrenska asked him to provide evidence of this purchase. It also asked him to send 
a bank statement to show proof of purchase for the original bike hed bought in September 
2022 and a bank statement for the replacement bike. Astrenska asked Mr A to explain why 
the invoice hed previously sent was modified and there were different figures for the order 
total and grand total.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Astrenska to have asked Mr A for further information 
when the document hed provided to show hed ordered a new bike appeared to have been 
modified. Mr A says the reason the order total was more than £1,000 less than the grand 
total was because hed used gift vouchers from friends towards his purchase. However, 
theres nothing on the document to show gift vouchers were used. The only payment method 
showing on the invoice is a bank card.
Mr A told Astrenska the payment for his original bike had been made from a friends bank 
account and Mr A had given him cash for it. Mr A was no longer in contact with the friend. 
The proof of payment Mr A provided for the new bike he purchased was from an account in 
another persons name. Mr A told Astrenska that hed used his friends credit account to buy 
the bike.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for Astrenska to have reached the 
conclusion that Mr As claim was likely to be fraudulent. 
Mr A wasnt able to provide evidence that hed paid for his original bike. The invoice (for 
almost £3,000) was in his own name, but he says the payment was made from a friends bank account and he was no longer in contact with them. I cant say it was unreasonable for 
Astrenska to have had concerns about this.
There is also evidence to suggest that Mr A provided a modified document in an attempt to 
evidence his purchase of a replacement bike. And I dont think hes given a satisfactory 
explanation regarding the difference in figures on it. 
Having reviewed the information provided in this case, Im satisfied Astrenska conducted a 
fair and reasonable review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud 
condition was breached  in light of the evidence it received. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman