DRN-3734978
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd declined his claim made on 
his annual excess protection motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr C took out a policy for annual excess protection for hire cars with Fortegra through an 
online comparison site. Nine months later, he needed to hire a van and checked that his 
policy covered this. Mr C had an accident and made a claim, but Fortegra declined this as it 
said his policy only covered car hire. Mr C thought the policy wording was unclear and 
misleading. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy certificate clearly stated that the policy covered car hire only. She thought the policy 
documents directed Mr C to check his eligibility. And so she thought Fortegra hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim.
Mr C replied that he still thought the policy wording was unclear. He asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated and disappointed that Fortegra has declined his 
claim. He has explained that this has caused him financial difficulties, and I was sorry to hear 
this.
Fortegra said it declined the claim because Mr C had taken out a policy to cover car hire and 
this didnt cover van hire. Mr C countered that he thought the policy did cover van hire 
because the policy booklet states under Eligibility:
When you applied for this insurance, we asked you to confirm that you were eligible for 
cover. The eligibility requirements are as follows:
 The rented vehicle is a car, van, minibus or motorhome.
I think Mr C concluded that this meant that his policy covered all of these vehicle categories 
and so he thought he was also covered for van hire. But Fortegra said it had one policy for 
all four categories. But the policy only covered the category stated on the Certificate of 
Insurance. And so the policy provided options for cover. Im satisfied that this was made 
reasonably clear to Mr C when he bought his policy and in his policy documents. I say this 
for the following reasons.
When Mr C bought his policy through an online comparison site, he was asked to choose 
which of the four categories of vehicle he wished to hire. Mr C selected car.
Fortegra then provided Mr C with his policy documents. The Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) explained that the policy excluded from cover "Motorhome, minibus and 
van hire".
The policy booklet directed Mr C to check his Certificate of Insurance to ensure that the 
cover suited his needs. On the Certificate I think it clearly states that the excess cover is for 
car hire. 
And I think the policy booklet made it clear in several places that if Mr C wanted to cover 
other categories of vehicle he should contact Fortegras agents. 
Mr C thought he shouldnt have to check all his policy documents to ensure that his 
requirements were being covered. But I disagree. I think its Mr Cs responsibility to check 
that the policy suits his needs. And I dont think the documents provided by Fortegra were 
onerous. 
So Im satisfied that Fortegra made it clear in the policy booklet, the IPID and the Certificate 
of Insurance that the cover was just for car hire. And, as I cant say it did anything wrong, I 
dont require Fortegra to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman