DRN-3575566
The complaint
Mr P has complained to Hub Financial Solutions Limited that it caused delays in the 
application process for buying an annuity and that he has suffered financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr Ps employer offered him an enhanced cash equivalent transfer value from his 
occupational pension scheme membership in January 2019, and in April 2019 it appointed 
Hub as the advising firm which would act on behalf of the pension scheme members.
Mr P had an initial phone consultation with Hub on 15 May 2019 and it confirmed it would 
send an annuity questionnaire to him within two to three days. But as Mr P hadnt received 
this by 28 May 2019, he called Hub and it said it would be sent the next day.
Mr P then then called to ask questions about the annuity health questionnaire on 3 June 
2019, and then a follow up call occurred on 24 June 2019. A report, including an annuity 
quotation for around £6,400 pa, was sent to Mr P on 26 June 2019, with a deadline imposed 
by the annuity provider to submit the completed application paperwork by 9 July 2019.
The surname of Mr Ps dependant and his date of birth needed amending, and a signature 
was missing, and so there were some delays in submitting the paperwork, but this was 
nevertheless completed by the deadline of 9 July 2019.
However, the subsequent deadline of 9 August 2019 to complete the transfer of funds from 
the ceding scheme was missed and a new annuity quote needed to be issued. This 
happened on 27 August 2019, but was for an annual income amount of around £400 less 
than the previous quote.
Mr P complained to Hub, but it declined to uphold the complaint, saying in summary that the 
paperwork for the 26 June 2019 quote had been submitted by the 9 July 2019 deadline and 
that it hadnt caused any delays in completing the annuity application process. 
Dissatisfied the response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service, where it was assessed 
by one of our investigators. They didnt think the compliant should be upheld, saying that, 
although there had been initial delays in preparing the report and quotation, the deadline of 9 
July 2019 had still been met. 
The investigator also noted that the report issued on 26 June 2019 had made Mr P aware 
that, if the guaranteed annuity quote deadlines couldnt be met, then revised quotations 
would need to be issued.
And once the paperwork had been submitted to the annuity provider on 9 July 2019, there 
were no further delays which could be attributed to Hub, the investigator said.
Mr P disagreed, however, setting out the delays which he said preceded the issue of the 
initial report and annuity quote on 26 June 2019. He added that, once the paperwork had 
been submitted to the annuity provider, Hub then requested further proof relating to his 
dependants status, but queried as to why this couldnt have been requested in June, 
thereby avoiding a further delay later on.
Mr P further said that, although he accepted the subsequent lower annuity offer, he did so 
because he had little choice and needed the funds. 
He noted the investigators point that the earlier delays had had no effect on the final annuity 
offer, but said that Hub had lost 34 days during the quotation period, which had a significant 
impact on the financial outcome.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision dated 31 May 2022, in which I set out my rationale as to why I 
considered the complaint should be upheld. In summary, whilst I considered that some of the 
delays incurred werent the responsibility of Hub, there had been instances where matters 
could and should have been progressed more quickly.
My findings are set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think I can reasonably conclude that there were delays in the period 
before the initial report and annuity quote were issued on 26 June 2019. In support of this 
position, I note that there were unexplained periods of time after the initial call with Mr P in 
which I think matters could have been advanced with more appropriate haste, and I deal with 
this particular matter further below.
But initially, Ive considered whether these delays  or any thereafter - contributed to the 
failure to obtain the specific annuity quote produced on 26 June 2019. 
And having reviewed the evidence, as with the investigator, Im not currently persuaded that 
they did. To explain, Hub has confirmed that the initial annuity quote which Mr P accepted 
was produced on the same day as its suitability report - on 26 June 2019. 
Mr P hasnt said that he accepted this quotation because he considered at that point he was 
time pressured or under other duress to do so. Hes said that he accepted the later annuity 
quite as he felt he had no other option to do so, but I dont think this applied to the earlier 
quote.
The timescale for then meeting the deadline of 9 July 2019 was also then met, albeit with 
some additional action required by both parties. The matter seems to have then been in the 
hands of the annuity provider and the ceding scheme administrator to transfer the funds so 
that the annuity could be established.
As this complaint isnt about the annuity provider, or the ceding scheme, I can only comment 
on the actions of Hub, but once the application submission deadline of 9 July 2019 had been 
met, the annuity provider then sent transfer forms to Hub on 24 July 2019. And Hub 
forwarded these to the scheme administrator two days later. As with the investigator, I dont 
think this was an excessive amount of time for it to turn around that paperwork.
The annuity provider then requested further proof of identity from Mr P on 9 August 2019, 
but again, this was promptly requested of Mr O and received by Hub on 14 August 2019. It 
then sent this to the annuity provider on the same day. I note that, in his response to the 
investigators findings, Mr P questioned as to why Hub hadnt requested this in June. But this request didnt derive of Hub  this was an additional document request made by the annuity 
provider.
So, overall, I dont think that Hub could reasonably be found at fault for any delays incurred 
in establishing the annuity once the quotation had been issued on 26 June 2019. As Ive said 
above, the initial deadline for submission of the required forms was met and the deadline for 
then processing the application and liaising with the scheme administrator was extended to 9 
August 2019, as had been assured by the annuity provider when issuing the quote.
That deadline unfortunately wasnt met, but on the basis of the available evidence, I dont 
think I can reasonably hold Hub responsible for that. Its involvement in the process after 9 
July 2019 was effectively to seek a further piece of information from Mr P and to forward 
further paperwork from the annuity provider to the ceding scheme administrator  both of 
which it seems to have done in a timely manner.
But I also note that, in Mr Ps response to the investigators findings, he said that a total of 34 
days had been lost in the initial annuity quotation period. And I think Mr P has a point here. 
To clarify, whilst I think that matters were largely out of Hubs hands once the deadline of 9 
July 2019  for the 26 June 2019 quote - had been met, I think its possible that, had the 
initial delays not been incurred, Mr P may have received an earlier annuity quotation which 
was the same  or higher  than that produced on 26 June 2019.
And this may also have meant that the annuity application would have been completed 
before the reduction in annuity rates on 27 August 2019  which as I understand it 
unfortunately produced the lower income for Mr P.
So this is my view on what ought reasonably to have happened here. From the initial advice 
call on 15 May 2019, I think that it might have taken a week for the information to be 
assessed and for Hub to have arranged the follow up call with Mr P  rather than wait for Mr 
P to chase it, as he then did on 28 May 2019. It then took Hub a further two days from that 
follow up call to issue the report to Mr P, which I think is reasonable. And so I think that the 
report, containing annuity quotations from the same date, could reasonably have been 
issued on 24 May 2019, rather than on 26 June 2019.
Assuming a similar timeline to that which then actually transpired, I think the initial 
submission deadline for that notional earlier quotation would have been met, but that the 
deadline for completing the application, for the same reasons as with the later quotation, 
would more likely than not have been missed.
Revised annuity quotes were ultimately issued on 27 August 2019, and an annuity 
established on that basis. And so, using the same timeline from a notional report on 24 May 
2019, I think that a revised annuity quote could have been issued on 25 July 2019.
Putting things right
My current view, therefore, is that the complaint should be upheld and that Hub should firstly 
establish the annuity which would have been quoted by the same annuity provider on 25 
July 2019, using the same basis as that which was actually established.
If this is higher than the annuity which Mr P actually received, then Hub should either 
establish an additional annuity on Mr Ps behalf to make up the difference, or pay him the 
capitalised lump sum required to buy the additional net annuity amount.
To reflect the past loss to Mr P, any difference in the past annuity payable should be paid to 
him with the addition of 8% pa simple interest from the date that the actual annuity payments would have been made, up to the date of settlement.
Had the initial delays not been incurred, Mr P would also have received his annuity and, Im 
assuming, the tax free lump sum sooner  and would have continued to receive the annuity 
income each year sooner for the rest of his, and then his dependants, life as well. It would 
be quite a complicated calculation to determine the effect of this over what would be an 
unknown period of years during which the annuity income might be payable, and so for the 
sake of simplicity, Im currently minded to award an additional sum to reflect this of £500.
In response, Mr P said he was happy that his complaint was being upheld, but enquired as 
to why Id suggested that the annuity quote should be based on the final figure of 25 July 
2019, rather than that which was quoted on 26 June 2019.
Hub also replied, saying that, whilst it conceded that some delays had been incurred in the 
earlier processing of Mr Ps case, there were additional steps in the process which hadnt 
been factored into my proposed timeline of what should have happened. These had been 
subject to service level agreements which had been agreed with the scheme, and to which 
Hub had adhered, it said. 
In particular, it said that, once the annuity questionnaire had been issued to Mr P, it didnt 
then receive it back for a further ten days.
It therefore felt that my proposed timeline didnt reflect what would actually have happened 
here. It said that an annuity set up date of 11 August 2019 would have been more realistic, 
rather than 25 July 2019 as Id proposed. It suggested the following timeline:
15 May 2019  The initial appointment took place.
16 May 2019  The annuity questionnaire should have been sent to Mr P.
28 May 2019  The completed annuity questionnaire would have been received (taking 
account of the ten days it took to actually receive it, along with weekends and a bank 
holiday).
3 June 2019  The call to book a follow up appointment should have been made (this was 
five working days later  within its normal service level expectations).
6 June 2019  The follow up appointment would have occurred  according to the actual 
three days it took for this to happen, rather than the service standard of five days.
10 June 2019  The annuity report would have been issued  two working days after the 
second appointment call, as actually happened, rather than the service level agreement of 
ten working days.
11 August 2019  The annuity quote would have been provided, based on the remaining 
timeline of what actually occurred after the annuity report was issued.
It said that it had engaged with Mr Ps annuity provider and had requested historical annuity 
quotes for 11 August 2019 and 25 July 2019 and that it would seek to redress Mr P for any 
loss of income in line with my recommendations, in addition to the £500 payment suggested.
It said, however, that there may be logistical difficulties in buying an annuity for any future 
loss, and that this may need to be achieved through a capital lump sum payment to Mr P.
I asked the investigator to respond to Mr P, explaining that the later date of the annuity quotes  25 July 2019  had been used in the provisional decision as there had been a 
further part of the process, for which Hub hadnt been involved, beyond 26 June 2019. This 
had meant that the final annuity quote wouldnt have been at the same time as, or very 
shortly after, the date of the annuity report. 
I also said that the amended timeline as suggested by Hub didnt seem unreasonable, given 
the circumstances. But I provided Mr P with the opportunity to provide any further comments 
on this.
In response, Mr P reiterated that he considered the quote of 26 June 2019 should be the 
annuity figure used for comparison and redress purposes. He said that, had Hub not delayed 
sending the annuity questionnaire by 12 days, in addition to the errors it made in his 
personal quotation, the guaranteed date of 9 July 2019 would have been met.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given in both the provisional decision and further correspondence 
specifically with Mr P, my view remains the same  that the initial process undertaken by 
Hub could have been completed sooner. And I note that both parties agree on this point.
I acknowledge that Mr P remains of the view that any comparison for redress purposes 
should be based on the annuity quote of 26 June 2019, but again, for the reasons given, this 
wouldnt have been achieved due to further parts of the process which were beyond Hubs 
control.
But I do still think that the annuity quote date should in any case have been sooner than 26 
June 2019. In my provisional decision, I said this could have been 24 May 2019, but Ive 
noted what Hub has said about the further parts of the process, and that the more realistic 
date of issuing the report would have been 10 June 2019. And following the timeline which 
then took place  and again, to reiterate, due to circumstances beyond Hubs control  the 
revised annuity quote would then have been issued on 10 August 2019.
In the circumstances, I think that proposed amendment is reasonable.
Putting things right
Hub should firstly establish the annuity which would have been quoted by the same annuity 
provider on 10 August 2019, using the same basis as that which was actually established.
If this is higher than the annuity which Mr P actually received, then Hub should either 
establish an additional annuity on Mr Ps behalf to make up the difference, or pay him the 
capitalised lump sum required to buy the additional net annuity amount. Ive noted that Hub 
has said that this may need to take the form of the latter.
To reflect the past loss to Mr P, any difference in the past annuity payable should be paid to 
him with the addition of 8% pa simple interest from the date that the actual annuity payments 
would have been made, up to the date of settlement.
Had the initial delays not been incurred, Mr P would also have received his annuity and, Im 
assuming, the tax free lump sum sooner  and would have continued to receive the annuity 
income each year sooner for the rest of his, and then his dependants, life as well. As I said 
in the provisional decision, it would be quite a complicated calculation to determine the effect of this over what would be an unknown period of years during which the annuity income 
might be payable, and so for the sake of simplicity, I remain of the view that Hub should pay 
Mr P an additional £500.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Hub Financial Solutions Limited to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman