DRN-4346132
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the decision by Chaucer Insurance Company Designated 
Activity Company to turn down their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy covers necessary and reasonable travel and accommodation expenses 
required to reach a booked destination in the event of missed departure. This is so 
long as the vehicle in which the insured is travelling breaks down or is involved in an 
accident, or the public transport being used to reach the departure point is delayed. 
The policy specifically excludes the insured not allowing sufficient time for the journey 
to the airport.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs O allowed sufficient time to reach the airport before 
check-in. However, what should have taken around 45 minutes ended up taking them 
around four hours and meant they missed their flight. This was because of heavy 
traffic due to roadworks, as well as a vehicle fire on their route. They have provided 
evidence in support of this. 
I accept that the circumstances here arent covered under the policy, and so strictly 
speaking, Chaucer was correct to turn down the claim. However, if Mr and Mrs O had 
been travelling to the airport by a bus or coach at the same time, then they still would 
have missed their flight for the same reasons, but their claim would have been 
covered. In these circumstances, I agree with our investigator that the claim should 
be paid on a fair and reasonable basis.
I therefore find that this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Chaucer Insurance Company 
Designated Activity Company to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
limits. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum a month after the claim 
was made to the date of settlement. 
* If Chaucer considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs O a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman