DRN-2967179
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as N, complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined their 
claim for business interruption. Mr P brings the complaint on Ns behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on N, as they were required to close during 
periods of lockdown. 
N held a business insurance policy with Covea. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Covea declined it. It said the policy primarily covered N for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at, or within 25 miles 
of, Ns premises. But that Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. 
And it said the Public Emergency section of the policy excluded infectious or contagious 
diseases. 
N complained to us, but our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. 
N didnt agree, particularly because the policy covered SARS, which is also caused by a 
coronavirus. Ive therefore been asked to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on N had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Covea 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Ns claim below. The burden of proof initially rests with N 
to show, on balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. 
Damage 
The core business interruption cover in Ns policy covers them for:
Business Interruption at Your Premises resulting in Loss of Gross Income occurring 
in the Indemnity Period following an Incident during the Period of Insurance caused 
by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under Material Damage Section
There are also extensions to this cover. Aside from the extensions relating to Infectious 
Diseases and Public Emergency, which Ive addressed separately, the only other extension 
which is potentially relevant here is that for Denial of Access. This covers N for:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of an Incident 
as insured by this Section, occasioned by Damage to Property in the vicinity of the 
Premises which prevents or hinders the use or access to the Premises, whether the 
Premises or Your Property suffers Damage or not 
Incident is defined in the policy to mean an Event of Damage to insured Property used by 
Your Business carried on at the Premises. Damage is defined in the policy to mean 
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property. 
So, applying these definitions, N would need to show that the interruption to their business 
had been caused by physical loss or destruction of or damage to property. I havent seen 
evidence to indicate that Covid-19, or the Governments response to it, caused a physical 
loss or destruction of or damage to the types of property mentioned in either the core 
business interruption cover or the Denial of Access cover in Ns policy. 
Infectious Diseases
This extension covers N for:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of 
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any 
person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
Disease is defined in the policy to mean:
any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis, acute 
infectious hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, botulism, 
brucellosis, cholera, diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food poisoning, 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group A 
streptococcal disease, legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal 
septicaemia, mumps, plague, rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhus, viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF), whooping cough and yellow 
fever.
N argues that, SARS is the classification of the virus which means it should be covered in 
the policy. There is no mention of SARS-Cov which the WHO refer to as the first outbreak of 
coronavirus. So SARS-Cov is the first outbreak, SARS-Cov-2 is the second outbreak but 
they are both SARS which is covered in the policy.
I think its important to be clear though that the definition gives a list of diseases, not viruses. 
In that context, SARS is the name of a disease (Severe acute respiratory syndrome), not a 
categorisation of viruses. SARS and Covid-19 are two separate diseases, supported by the 
fact that they appear separately in the Governments list of notifiable diseases, and by the 
World Health Organisations description of Covid-19 as a new disease in February 2020. 
They are caused by two different, albeit related, coronaviruses. They arent two outbreaks of 
the same virus. 
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this 
extension wouldnt cover interruption caused by the restrictions introduced to combat the 
spread of Covid-19. I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Ns policy includes a list of specific diseases. And theres nothing in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, including any new 
diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. Im satisfied the list 
has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to manifestations of those diseases mentioned in 
the list. 
Public Emergency
This extension covers N for:
...the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely to 
endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of or access to the Premises; excluding:
 4) infectious or contagious diseases. 
Im satisfied that, even if N could show that Covid-19 could be considered an emergency 
likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of its Premises, the claim could fairly be 
excluded on the grounds that Covid-19 is an infectious disease. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman