DRN-2083709
The complaint
Mr E complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) blocked a 
payment for a hire car, and wasnt able to unblock it after hours, so he ended up spending 
much more than hed intended.
What happened
Mr E wanted to collect a hire car while he was away from home. That meant making a large 
deposit payment on his AmEx card. But his card was blocked, because of concerns about 
possible fraud. AmEx couldnt unblock it until the next day. 
Mr E said because he couldnt pay the deposit on his AmEx card, he had to buy additional 
insurance instead. He thought AmEx should pay back the £150 this had cost him. He said 
AmEx initially agreed it was responsible for this payment, but then said it wouldnt pay. 
AmEx said Mr E had just had a replacement card. And hed looked up his PIN online. So 
when he then tried to make a large, and rather out of character, purchase on the card, AmEx 
said that triggered a fraud alert. AmEx also said that when a card is blocked by one of its 
specialist teams, only that team can unblock it. And the fraud team isnt available 24 hours. It 
had unblocked the card for Mr E the next day. It didnt think it had done anything wrong, so it 
wouldnt give Mr E back the £150 that his additional insurance cost him. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that AmEx had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions, and it said it wouldnt make good any loss when 
transactions were turned down. So he didnt think it had to do any more.
Mr E didnt agree. He said that if making a transaction after searching for a PIN online was 
something that triggered fraud concerns, then AmEx shouldnt allow people to do that. And 
he said AmExs call centre shouldve been able to reverse the block. But our investigator 
didnt change his mind. He said we arent a regulator, and cant tell AmEx what risks it 
should consider, or how to make changes to its process. We can just consider if theyve 
been fair in specific circumstances. And he thought AmEx had complied with its own terms, 
and treated Mr E the same as everyone else. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said AmEx had too strict a fraud protocol, and too limited a customer 
service ability. And he said hed been given to understand that there would be no problem 
getting the money paid back. Mr E wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr E said that his transaction had been declined just because hed looked his PIN up online. 
But that isnt the only reason. Amex said Mr E had recently got a new card, and looked up 
his PIN online, then made a very much larger transaction than other recent spending. So it 
said that there would be a concern that Mr Es new card had been intercepted. It blocked 
Mr Es transaction because of this. 
I dont think AmEx did anything wrong when it did that. I dont think that was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Mr E then found that, although he could identify himself to AmEx, he couldnt just unblock 
the card. AmEx says that when a card is blocked for possible fraud, it will only let fraud 
specialists unblock it. Again, thats not unfair or unreasonable. 
But those fraud specialists arent available 24 hours. I understand how frustrating this was 
for Mr E, who had to pay much more to hire his car because of this. But our service cant 
make AmEx provide a 24 hour fraud team. AmEx is allowed to take decisions about how it 
organises its own business on matters like this. And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable 
for AmEx to have organised its business like this, even if that does mean Mr E wasnt able to 
unblock his card until the next day.
Mr E also says that AmEx agreed when he spoke to it at the time that the £150 he had to 
spend to get him out of this mess would be refunded. Ive asked for this call, and AmEx no 
longer has it, so I cant listen to it now. Amexs notes of the call say that the call handler 
offered to refer this to managers, rather than agreeing to it. That sounds more likely to me, 
so on balance, I think its more likely that AmEx didnt make any firm commitment to refund 
the extra £150 Mr E paid because his card was blocked.
I know Mr E will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman