DRN-3073792
The complaint
Mr B complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Using the information I have from STFL, here is a brief loan table.
loan date taken date repaid amount 
borrowedweekly rate
1 03/08/2017 01/10/2017 £200 £20 x 16 weeks
2 07/12/2017 18/04/2018 £150 £10 x 25
3 07/12/2017 22/02/2018 £200 £20 x 16
4 22/02/2018 25/05/2018 £250 £25 x 16
5 18/04/2018 22/08/2018 £150 £10 x 25
6 20/06/2018 28/09/2018 £300 £30 x 16
7 22/08/2018 02/11/2018 £200 £15 x 23
8 03/10/2018 02/11/2018 £300 £30 x 16
Using the details in the final response letter (FRL) from STFL and its covering letters to this 
Service, it appears that it did carry out credit searches for each loan and the agent would 
have looked at copy bank statements at the time of each application. But STFL has 
explained that it did not have the technology to keep those copies for these loan application 
dates. So, none have been provided.
Mr B has provided copies of his bank statements and a copy of his personal credit file which 
covers the period of this lending with STFL.
One of our adjudicators thought that STFL should put things right for Mr B from loan 6. It
disagreed. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
14 September 2021 in which I explained why I was planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint in 
relation to all his loans. Set out in the next section is my provisional decision, in smaller type 
font to differentiate it. But it forms part of the final determination. 
Mr B has replied to say he has nothing further to add. STFL has not responded to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure STFL could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to 
a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the risk 
that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive of 
the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
STFL was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without 
undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
As I described in the what happened part of this provisional decision, there are no copies from STFL 
of the credit search results. It specifically described that the reason for doing those searches was to 
determine whether Mr B had any CCJs or indebtedness to other lenders. However, Mr Bs personal 
credit file gives me the information I need and he had a Judgment debt against him for around £680. 
The judgment date was 13 June 2017 and Mr Bs first loan application with STFL was August 2017. It 
was not classed as satisfied on his credit report until 30 September 2017. 
I think that its highly likely that any credit search done around early August 2017 would have shown 
this County Court Judgment (CCJ) as a public record. It was just before Mr Bs application to STFL, 
but the CCJ was not so recent that any search in August 2017 may not have registered it. As theres a 
gap in the evidence from STFL  whether it had information about that CCJ or not before approving 
the loan  considering its explanation as to the reason for obtaining those credit searches, then Ive 
used Mr Bs personal credit fill record to fill in that evidence gap. I make a provisional finding that the 
CCJ likely did show up on Mr Bs STFL credit search in August 2017.
Therefore, with a recent and outstanding CCJ recorded against Mr Bs name, Id consider that full 
financial checks ought to have been carried out by STFL from loan 1 before approving it. I dont think 
it did that. As I have Mr Bs bank statements Ive been able to see what I consider likely STFL would 
have seen if it had carried out a full review. In fact, STFL has informed me that its agent used Mr Bs 
bank statements at the time of the applications. But details appear to have been missed.
I can see that Mr B had declared on his application that he had one new born baby dependent. I can 
see from his bank statements that he had other accounts  a joint account with his partner and savings accounts which all were £0 balance or overdrawn. His own bank account statements tell me 
that he regularly received the £1,215 per month salary for the months leading up to August 2017. And 
yet even that has been incorrectly recorded on the STFL form. £1,215 when divided by four does 
translate into around £303 a week which was what has been recorded as Mr Bs income. But in fact, it 
really translates into £280 a week when properly calculated across 52 weeks.
Then using STFLs figures for Mr Bs expenditure, as that came to around £220 a week, that would 
have reduced Mr Bs potential disposable income to £60 a week.
But I also think that this potential disposable income should have been calculated as being even less 
 as the rent payable on Mr Bs bank statements each month show he was paying £530. That does 
translate into around £122.30 a week but has been recorded as £62.50. I assume that the agent has 
marked the rental as 50% of the real cost each week because Mr Bs partner may have paid the other 
half. But, two things show me thats unlikely  one is that the rent was paid from Mr Bs own personal 
bank account at £530 a month, not the joint account he had with his partner. And I cant see any 
contributions from his partner paid into his account to assist towards the rent.
And the second reason which leads me to think its more likely Mr B paid all the rent was that if his 
partner had just had a baby then I think it highly unlikely she was earning (or earning enough) to be 
able to pay half the rent at that time. I have no actual information about his partner and so that partner 
may never have been on a salary anyway  I use these two factual points as a demonstration that I 
think the agent may have entered this rental contribution incorrectly as £62.50 each week. Its not the 
full amount of £122.30 a week.
So, for both reasons using STFLs own figures on the application form, I do not think that Mr B had 
any disposable income such that he could afford loan 1.
In addition to the above, I have seen records on Mr Bs bank statements and credit file to show that 
he had relatively recent defaults, he was paying two loans to another home credit lender costing 
around £160 each month, plus £214 a month to a guarantor loan company and £244 a month to 
another high cost lender. Plus, Mr B had a commitment to a debt collection agency of around £147 a 
month. Mr B had given STFL a figure of around £53 a week for other credit but these figures exceed 
that figure by some way. 
Reviewing Mr Bs later bank statements, the picture changes a little  for instance he ceases to repay 
the debt collection agency £147 a month around October 2017 but it was replaced with another sum 
payable to a different debt collection agency. One of the other loans he was repaying at £244 a month 
was replaced with a further loan in September 2017 for similar monthly amounts. Mr Bs credit file tells 
me that he had sustained arrears with one high cost credit lender from February 2016 to May 2019.
In my view Mr B was balancing credit commitments and income, and his credit picture and recent CCJ 
lead me to provisionally decide that STFL ought never to have lent to him from loan 1. I am planning 
to uphold loans 1 to 5.
I have also looked at the overall pattern of STFLs lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which STFL should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. And so STFL ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans.
Given the circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by Loan 6. I say this 
because:
From loan 6 onwards Mr B was provided with a new loan immediately he settled a previous 
one. His loans overlapped and it seemed relatively clear that Mr B was borrowing to repay 
borrowing. So, STFL ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.Mr Bs position was not improving as his credit file shows that he had another Judgment debt 
in August 2018 for around £690  not satisfied until December 2019. This would have been 
before he applied for loan 7 and while Mr B still owed STFL on loans 5 and 6.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed STFL. Loan 8 was approved for 
£300 when he already owed STFL on loan 7, and loan 1 was taken out more than 14 months 
earlier at £200. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STFL 
over an extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because STFL continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on Mr 
Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, I am planning to uphold the complaint about loans 6 to 8 and STFL should put things right.
My decision
Having given both parties time to respond, considering Mr Bs reply and not having any 
response from STFL, then I see no reason to alter my provisional findings as set out above. 
And so, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B has raised a query regarding the tax deduction. He is represented by a professional 
claims management company who can give him that advice. We do not advise on matters 
and certainly not those relating to tax. So, I say no more about that point. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it never lent to Mr B as Im satisfied it ought not to have done. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.I direct that STFL does as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on all the loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loans 1 to 5 from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 6 to 8 should be removed from Mr 
Bs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires STFL to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct that Short Term Finance 
Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman