DRN-4383835
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly 
declined claims on her pet insurance policy and that it mis-sold her the policy.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs E took out a pet insurance policy with UKI to cover her cat and dog.
Mrs E made a claim under the policy for the cost of treating her cats urinary tract infection. 
She had previously claimed up to the policy limit of £8,000 for a urethral obstruction for 
which the cat had had a permanent cystotomy tube inserted to enable her bladder to be 
drained. UKI said the two conditions were related. So it declined the claim. Mrs E thought 
further tests were needed to establish whether the conditions were unrelated. Unfortunately 
this wasnt possible as very sadly the cat has since died. 
Mrs E also made a claim under the policy for the cost of treating skin allergies affecting her 
dogs feet. UKI declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions and 
as the dog had a history of skin issues before the policy started, it was treating this as a pre-
existing condition. 
Mrs E said before taking the policy out she had asked UKI whether it covered skin allergies 
and was told that it did. UKI couldnt find a recording of the call. It said it only waived the 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions in very rare circumstances and if so, it would have noted 
this on the policy.
Mrs E brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld.
As Mrs E didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim regarding Mrs Es cat
To decide whether UKI acted fairly, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. The policy 
states that UKI will refund treatment costs for vet fees or complementary treatment up to 
£8,000 for each separate condition.  
Under the heading Whats not covered the policy says:
We wont pay for 
Any more costs when your vet fee limit has been reached. This can either be your 
monetary limit or time limit depending on the cover you have chosen. Once the vet 
fee limit for a condition has been used up there will no longer be any cover for
-The condition originally claimed for;
-Any recurrence of that condition; or
-Anything related to or arising from that condition.
Im satisfied that these terms are reasonable and clearly worded. I need to decide whether it 
was reasonable for UKI to take the view that Mrs Es cats urinary tract infection was linked 
to the cystotomy tube inserted for the urethral obstruction.
Ive looked at the letter from Mrs Es vet. It said:
It is likely that her urinary tract infections were secondary to her permanent cystotomy tube 
placement.
In addition the vets notes say in relation to the urinary tract infection that:
 It is not unexpected for cystotomy tubes to become infected.
Based on the evidence provided by the vet I dont think it was unreasonable of UKI to 
conclude that the two conditions were related and as the policy limit had already been 
reached, not to meet the cost of the treatment for the urinary tract infection.
Claim regarding Mrs Es dog
Like many pet insurance policies Mrs Es policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as: 
any condition or symptom, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form 
before the pet was covered by this insurance.
Under the section headed What we dont cover it says
2. any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition, unless fully 
declared and accepted as covered in writing.
3. any claim for a recurring condition thats in any way connected to or as a result of:
i)A pre-existing condition.
No pre-existing conditions were noted on the policy as having been accepted.
Mrs Es vet submitted a claim on her behalf for Allergies  feet. The dog had been 
prescribed with Apoquel. Apoquel is marketed as a tablet to control itching associated with 
allergic and atopic dermatitis.
The dogs clinical history shows that he suffered from skin issues since 2015 affecting his 
feet and other parts of his body. In August 2016 the vet completed an insurance claim form 
to another insurer for suspected allergic skin disease. In 2017 the dog started 
immunotherapy treatment. He was allergic to mites and/or moulds. In the same year the vet 
noted that Mrs E had been told the dogs skin was never going to be normal and 
management will be difficult. He had been prescribed Apoquel before the policy started.
In the light of this Im persuaded that the allergies Mrs Es dog was treated for in May 2023 
were the same or connected to the skin issues hed suffered from before the policy was 
taken out in 2019. It follows I think it was fair for UKI to rely on the policy exclusion for pre-
existing conditions to decline this claim.Mis-sale 
Ive also looked at whether UKI misled Mrs E in the phone call when she bought the policy. A 
recording of the call is no longer available as recordings are only kept for three years for 
data protection reasons. The notes from the call indicate that the excess was agreed and 
there was no need for various optional benefits. According to UKI, its sales team follow a 
script when selling policies and the script includes a mention of the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions. There is nothing to indicate that the call handler waived this exclusion. UKI say it 
would only have done this in exceptional circumstances for existing customers and at the 
time Mrs E was a new customer. The exclusion is also clearly set out in the policy 
documentation.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think it unlikely that UKI agreed to waive the exclusion for 
pre-existing conditions and its more likely that there was a misunderstanding on Mrs Es 
part.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman