DRN-2499624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that a car they bought with the assistance of finance from Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers) isnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought a used car in March 2019 for £6,995. Mrs D explained that they bought 
the car specifically to tow their caravan and as a precaution they replaced the front and rear 
brake pads. On their first holiday towing the caravan in August 2019 the car broke down 
whilst travelling up a hill and was recovered to a local garage where it was diagnosed that 
the turbo had failed. Following the breakdown Mr and Mrs D arranged to have the turbo 
replaced at their local garage. 
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs D again set off on holiday with their caravan and the car 
broke down again. It appears that there is a significant fault within the engine which has now 
seized. 
Mr and Mrs D reported the problems to Close Brothers who said that as the faults had 
presented outside 6 months of ownership and because repairs were carried out by a third 
party, it couldnt accept that the car was faulty at the point of supply.
Mrs and Mrs D were not happy and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought that because there was no independent inspection 
report which confirmed the faults with the car there was not enough evidence to say that the 
faults were there or developing at the point of sale.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and responded to say in summary that the car had only done a 
small amount of mileage since purchase and they were paying for a car that was not fit for 
purpose. They said that it was not economical to pay for a report to diagnose the fault and it 
was clear that the car had faults from the outset.
Mr and Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the case are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in 
this decsion. Instead I will focus on giving reasons for my decision. I want to assure Mr 
and Mrs D that I have reviewed all of the information and if I do not comment on a 
particular aspect it isnt because Ive overlooked it or not taken it into account. 
Mr D is the sole signatory to the finance agreement so I will refer to Mr D in this decision.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D - whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of 
the car and the price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mr D was five and a half years old, had been driven for 
71,000 miles and had a price of £6,995. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount 
of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. 
Clearly, it can be reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require 
replacement of items more often than a brand-new car.
There were clearly some issues with the car in August 2018 which resulted in a breakdown 
and a subsequent repair. Mr D didnt complain about these issues at the time to Close 
Brothers and paid for the repair to the turbo. Mr Ds local garage suggested that there may 
have been issues with servicing as the car had a dirty air filter and a collapsed oil filter. 
These items were replaced at the time of replacing the turbo. 
The car failed again in September 2019 and it appears that at the point of the turbo 
failure more serious engine damage had possibly occurred. To find out the exact 
cause of the problem would require the engine to be stripped down. Mr D, for reasons 
that I completely understand, wasnt willing to pay for this.
It is clear that the car has a serious fault and is inoperable. But it isnt clear what the cause 
of those faults are. Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault was present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr D. Although there were issues with brakes and 
suspension these were repaired and do not appear to be connected with the current 
problem. The car was sold with an incomplete service history so it is likley that there would 
have been a need to service the car.
The first breakdown of the car happened in August 2019 after Mr D had had the car for 5 
months.  Repairs were carried out but it isnt clear to me that the turbo failure wasnt a 
wear and tear item relating to a failure to service the car. I have no evidence that the 
second breakdown was related to the first or whether it was an entirely separate issue. 
So Im not persuaded that the issues the car has now were present or developing when 
the car was supplied to Mr D.
I understand the point Mrs D is making with respect to the relatively few miles travelled and 
the quality of the car. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs D for the issues that theyve had with 
the car and for the repairs that it now needs  but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Close 
Brothers to allow Mr D to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to it, to pay any compensation 
to him or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decisionUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman