DRN-4026792
The complaint
Mr B has complained that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined a claim under his pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
On 25 January 2021 Mr B took out a new policy with QIC.
On 6 February 2021 Mr B took his cat to the vet because she was wheezing and coughing. 
Mr B told QIC the symptoms had probably started at the end of January or beginning of 
February. The vet thought this was related to a recent leukaemia vaccine. 
On 2 March 2022 the vet diagnosed Mr Bs cat with bacterial pneumonia. 
When Mr B made a claim to QIC, it declined it on the ground that the symptoms had been 
present within the first ten days of the policy and so any treatment related to it was excluded 
from cover. Mr B produced evidence from his vet that the bacterial pneumonia in March 
2022 was unlikely to be related to the respiratory problem a year earlier. QIC didnt change 
its decision.
As Mr B was unhappy with this response, he brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought QIC had acted unfairly in declining the claim. He wasnt persuaded that 
the two conditions were linked. He recommended that QIC should pay the invoice dated 22 
August 2022 for treatment that had occurred in 2022. 
QIC has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs pet insurance policy helps cover veterinary treatment costs to keep her pet healthy. 
The policy sets out what is and isnt covered. The exclusion includes any claim for treatment 
of an illness or condition arising prior to or within the first ten days of the policy being taken 
out.
On 6 February 2021 Mr Bs cat was seen by a vet who noted wheezing, coughing since 
leukemia vx.
Later in 2021 the vet noted the cat was wheezing. As the cat seemed to get worse when let 
outside, the vet said allergies were a possible diagnosis.
At a health check in February 2022 she was noted to be still wheezing. Investigations into 
that were carried out the following month.
Mr Bs vet wrote to QIC as follows:
We saw [cat] on 06/02/21 for a respiratory problem related to the upper respiratory tract. 
This problem resolved completely within a few days. Then on 02/03/2022 we saw [cat] again 
for a respiratory problem. This time we performed a few test [sic] that showed [cat] had a 
bacterina [sic] pneumonia affecting most of the lungs. Its unlikely that this problem was 
related to the one observed one year before. Even if both affects the respiratory system, 
[cat] fully recovered from her upper respiratory symptoms on February 2021. Then 1 year 
later she came back with severe bacteria pneumonia. Had this pneumonia been going on for 
1 year the symptoms would have been clearer much sooner.
Its worth noting that we have an established approach to complaints involving pre-existing 
conditions or those which develop within the first two weeks of the policy. This involves 
assessing the knowledge of the consumer. If we consider there is evidence to confirm that a 
consumer was aware something was wrong with their pet prior to taking out the policy or 
within the waiting period, then we think its fair for the business to decline any relevant 
claims. We do not consider that a specific diagnosis needs to have been made, only that the 
consumer was aware something was wrong. However, we will always take into account the 
individual circumstances of the case.
In this instance there is evidence from Mr Bs vet that the cat completely recovered from the 
respiratory problem in February 2021 within a few days. So I dont think Mr B would have 
been aware at that stage that his cat had a more serious respiratory condition. There is also 
evidence from Mr Bs vet that the earlier respiratory problem was unlikely to be related to the 
bacterial pneumonia she had over a year later. On balance I dont think QIC has done 
enough to establish a link between the condition claimed for and the one that happened 
within a few days of the policy being taken out. 
On the basis of the policy terms above and the veterinary evidence I am not satisfied that the 
condition for which Mr B made a claim can reasonably be regarded as a pre-existing 
condition. It follows that I dont think QIC was entitled to decline the claim for treatment. 
Initially the claim included treatment from 2021. I agree with our Investigator that QIC is only 
liable to pay the costs included in the invoice sent to it in August 2022. Since this claim 
should have been paid about 10 months ago, I think its fair that QIC should also pay interest 
on the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to settle 
Mr Bs claim for the costs set out in the invoice dated 22 August 2022 subject to the other 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
I also require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr B simple interest at the rate of 8% on the settlement 
sum from the date of the claim to the date that payment is made to him.
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one so that he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth GrantOmbudsman