DRN-3011990
The complaint
Mrs U complained about how Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard have dealt with 
her account.
What happened
In the early summer of 2018 Mrs U made several balance transfers to a Barclaycard with a 
0% offer that was valid for two years. The total balance transferred was around £4,500.
The complaint
Mrs U complained her balance wasnt paid off when she thought it ought to have been, and 
that shed had repeated problems trying to sign in to her account and obtaining account 
information.
When she complained to Barclaycard in February 2021 she told Barclaycard what she 
recalled happening when she first made the balance transfers. She said Barclaycard agreed 
a direct debit that would ensure the balance was paid off by the time of the 0% deal ending. 
This isnt agreed. Mrs U said shed noticed her payments were less than the expected 
amount. She didnt question it. Mrs U said she thought this had been because the balance 
was reducing; but she had later come to realise this wasnt what had happened.
Mrs U also said that when her account was set up, she was due to have electronic 
statements sent by email. Barclaycard say that when the account was set up, it was for 
paperless statements. This meant statements were only ever available online, and they were 
never sent by email. 
Mrs Us email address changed at some point due to an unrelated security issue. Mrs U 
says that following this she contacted Barclaycard to provide her new email address. Mrs U 
says shed understood statements would be sent to this email address. But this didnt 
happen and she complained. Mrs U says a Barclaycard adviser told her, her details hadnt 
been updated.
Barclaycard until recently said Mrs U contacted Barclays Bank and updated her personal 
information but she didnt contact Barclaycard. And they said, she would have needed to 
contact themselves, Barclaycard, to update or amend her information.
Mrs U has repeatedly said she didnt have a Barclays account, Barclaycard have now 
agreed this.
Mrs U said she contacted Barclaycard whod said they would contact her within the next few 
days but no one did. Barclaycard dont seem to think this happened. Mrs U says she 
assumed at this point everything had been sorted out. Mrs U says she thought she was 
continuing to pay off her Barclaycard balance as shed intended. 
Mrs U says a time was reached when she wanted to check her account as she thought she 
was reaching the end of the repayment term. She says she tried to speak with an adviser 
three times, which included being cut off and she then tried to log on via the online system.
Mrs U complained this wouldnt work. She was informed she needed a card reader. At this 
point she contacted Barclaycard to obtain one. Initially she was told one was being sent, but 
it didnt arrive.
Mrs U says she continued to try and contact Barclaycard many times. It isnt entirely clear 
what period of time she says this involved. Mrs U says she cant provide any further dates or 
details.  
Mrs U says she continued to think the balance ought to be paid off or at least should be 
nearing repayment completion. There was a time when she again tried to log on and was 
prompted to use a card reader and she again tried to contact Barclaycard. On one occasion 
she was successful, but she also had problems again, trying to use a card reader. 
Mrs U says she tried a number of times to contact Barclaycard, but the calls failed as they 
were disconnected. Mrs U says she eventually managed to speak to someone on 18 
November, (apparently in 2020). This person wasnt able to contact the right people to assist 
and told Mrs U someone would call her back within the next few days. But no one did.
Mrs U was then unwell. When she returned to the matter at the end of January 2021 she 
again experienced problems getting through to anyone. When she did speak to someone 
she was told her outstanding balance was much higher than Mrs U had expected. Mrs U 
says she then discovered this was because only the minimum monthly amounts had been 
paid since the start of the balance transfer. Mrs U said shed not realised this was what was 
happening, as she wasnt receiving statements. Mrs U says she was told Barclaycard would 
call her back within a few days, but they didnt.
When Mrs U complained to Barclaycard she explained she plans ahead and lives within a 
budget. She wanted interest payments reversed and any outstanding balance put into a 
further 0% arrangement.
Barclaycard responded to Mrs U on 23 February 2021 and on the same day a credit of £75 
was applied to her credit card balance.
Mrs U sent a number of further email complaints to Barclaycard as she said she hadnt 
received a response. She also suggested that if shed had a working card reader device this 
situation wouldnt have arisen.
What Barclaycard say 
Barclaycard say Mrs Us account was set up for paperless statements. It was also set up 
with a direct debit for the minimum payment to be taken monthly and this has never been 
changed. Barclaycard say they sent a monthly text reminder to Mrs U that her statement was 
available to view online.
Overall they say they didnt do anything wrong in the way statements were produced and 
direct debits taken. However they acknowledged they ought to have done better when it 
came to Mrs Us attempts to contact them and so theyd paid £75 to reflect their failures in 
customer service. This was paid against her outstanding balance.
They acknowledged Mrs U was unhappy. But said theyd taken the right amount of minimum 
payment each month. Barclaycard stressed this payment would have been shown on her Barclaycard statement and also on her current account statement. So they thought shed 
had sufficient information. They concluded theyd done what they were required to do.
As Barclaycard had never emailed her statements they didnt consider the information in 
relation to the change of email address relevant. They stressed their reminders were sent 
monthly by text and in any event the responsibility for payment remained with Mrs U. 
Barclaycard confirmed the minimum payments had not been enough to clear the balance by 
the time the 0% offer ended and at that point the balance had begun to accrue interest.
View
An investigator initially issued a view where he thought Barclaycard ought to pay Mrs U an 
additional £75 to reflect her frustration and difficulties contacting Barclaycard. Barclaycard 
didnt agree and provided further information. This altered the investigators thinking.
Further information provided
Mrs U accepted responsibility for paying her credit card remained with her. But she stressed 
she received poor service, repeatedly; and not just during recent times involving the impact 
of the pandemic. Mrs U said her card reader continued to fail to work and she still didnt have 
access to her account
Barclaycard say there was nothing at their end preventing Mrs U from accessing her online 
account. Their records suggest the last time shed tried to log in had been in March 2019 
and this had been successful. Their records suggested the last time shed failed when trying 
to log in had been in November 2018. 
Barclaycard suggest that because some types of unsuccessful log ins may not show on the 
system, as they will not have been registered sufficiently, this might be relevant here. But 
Barclaycard dont think its their fault if Mrs U didnt know her online log in information.
Barclaycard provided internal notes which didnt show Mrs U made any enquiries about 
problems logging into her online account. They also said it wouldnt be their usual process to 
arrange a call back where there was an online problem. Barclaycard went on to suggest that 
due to the current pandemic they wouldnt be able to arrange a call back and they suggested 
she ought to follow their usual process of calling their internet helpdesk. They acknowledged 
there may be some delay in getting through. Barclaycard also suggested Mrs U may wish to 
switch to paper statements and she could arrange this via their customer services.
Mrs Us case was referred to an ombudsman as she didnt agree with the investigators final 
view on the case. She also raised problems she was having in transferring her credit 
balance as her card reader was still not working. This situation was remedied.
Mrs U went on to tell us she had never suggested her problems with contacting Barclaycard 
and failing to receive call backs related to log in problems. They were to do with failures to 
update her details including her email address. 
Provisional decision
On 5 July 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I indicated I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Us 
complaint as based on what Id seen, I thought Barclaycard had done enough; but I did 
request further information. 
Im grateful to Mrs U and Barclaycard for the further information they provided. I apologize 
for the delay in providing this decision due to the fact I was unwell for some time.
I intend to summarize the main thrust of the further information provided.Further information provided
In summary Barclaycard say:
To log onto an account online a card reader isnt needed.
According to their records, they werent asked to send a new card reader to Mrs U 
and would not be aware of any faults with existing devices.
The £75.00 was awarded because Mrs U had outlined in her email to Barclaycard in 
February 2021 the times she had called and the poor service she received. Their 
records indicated Mrs U first contacted Barclaycard on 15 November 2020. Further 
log information was provided.
Barclaycard say the reason they suggested Mrs U had an account with Barclays and 
she needed to updated them as well as Barclays, was because Mrs U said shed 
contacted Barclays. So they suggested their representatives must have assumed she 
had a Barclays account; but they have now checked and accept she does not and 
never has.
Barclaycard have clarified that as a consequence of changes introduced due to the Covid 
pandemic, they now work more closely with Barclays Bank staff, and as such Mrs U might 
now speak to someone from Barclays Bank, if she contacts Barclaycard.
Mrs U told us more about the problems she had when trying to transfer the balance to a new 
provider, and trying to access what shed thought was a credit amount. She also told us:
She contacted Barclays and had spent nearly 25 minutes trying to get through. When 
she did their system had still not updated her phone number and email address 
information.
Shed still not received a device and was being charged fees. But she said her late 
fee was going to be refunded.
Mrs U confirmed shed never had statements sent by email.
Mrs U said shed given us all the dates she could recall. She continued to say she couldnt 
log on without her card reader. As far as she was aware this was the only way to log on; with 
other bank accounts and credit cards she can log on in other ways. She doesnt have a 
current account with Barclays and so has never needed to contact them about anything else, 
only ever Barclaycard.
Mrs U told us she usually tried to access her Barclaycard account via the app. But when she 
does this it refers her to using the card reader, which never works. 
More recently Mrs U let us know the transfer to a different provider had been completed. 
Barclaycard say they did go on to update Mrs Us information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional 
decision. Im not upholding Mrs Us complaint as I think Barclaycard have done enough. 
It was Mrs Us responsibility ultimately to ensure she was making sufficient regular payments 
towards the balance on her credit card. If she wanted to ensure a balance was paid off during a specific period, it was again her responsibility to ensure she was making the right 
payments to achieve her objective. 
I wouldnt consider it unusual to make regular checks that such an objective was on track. 
Monthly payments were being taken by direct debit from her current account to pay towards 
the balance, so even if she was experiencing problems accessing her Barclaycard 
information on line, there was an additional source available for her to have regular 
knowledge of how much she was paying each month.
Barclaycard say initial payments were set up for the minimum payment to be made by direct 
debit each month. This wouldnt have allowed the balance to have been paid off prior to the 
0% offer period concluding. Mrs U says payments were agreed with Barclaycard to be set at 
an amount that ensured the balance would be paid off before the deal finished. But 
Barclaycard payment system notes show that minimum payments were set up from the start. 
Even if Mrs U thought payments from mid-2018 were set at a level to ensure repayment 
within a set period, I dont think this was how the payments were set up. There isnt enough 
for me to conclude Barclaycard made a mistake about this when they first set up the 
payment amount. 
It appears to me Mrs U acknowledged her responsibility in ensuring payments were made in 
the way she wanted and that her plan was on track, when she first complained and indicated 
she had considered what she was paying and this was less than she would have expected 
to meet the outstanding balance in the required time. 
I accept Mrs U had some problems contacting Barclaycard, but I think they have offered 
enough to reflect these. I dont think these problems can be sufficiently linked to her balance 
not being paid off within the period where no interest was applied such as to make 
Barclaycard responsible any further. I also accept Mrs U experienced some problems using 
the card reader. I hope she now understands this wasnt the only way she could have logged 
in to her account. I accept from Mrs U that she wasnt contacting Barclaycard about the 
logging in problems, and this is supported by Barclaycard contact logs from the time.
Mrs U says she didnt know what her outstanding balance on her Barclaycard was. I dont 
accept this lack of knowledge, or the fact there was an outstanding balance once the 0% 
offer finished, is, or ought to be the responsibility of Barclaycard. Nor do I accept any failure 
to finish repaying the transferred balance can be sufficiently linked to any potential problems 
in contacting Barclaycard over a two year period. 
Barclaycards acceptance they ought to have provided better service when it came to 
contact and their payment of £75 previously made was sufficient in the circumstances here.
I hope Mrs U understands were not able to consider how Barclaycard addressed her 
complaint as part of our process here.
I accept Barclaycard hadnt and werent sending monthly statements by email. If this was 
something Mrs U had been expecting I would have expected this to have been repeatedly 
raised by Mrs U to Barclaycard; and it wasnt. It would also have been apparent on a regular 
monthly basis it wasnt happening. So even if Mrs U believed she ought to be receiving 
monthly statements by email, I dont accept this is something she ought to have believed or 
reasonably relied upon for any significant period of time.
She would have needed to log on to the online service to see her monthly statements, or to 
contact Barclaycard and request paper statements. Barclaycard sent a mobile phone 
number they held for Mrs U, monthly text reminders that her statement was available. It isnt 
clear to me for how long they may have used an incorrect mobile phone number to send reminders. But even if Mrs U wasnt receiving reminders her statement was available, this 
doesnt mean she ought not to be expected to have known what monthly payments were 
being made, or that her responsibility to manage this debt was changed in the circumstances 
here.
Mrs U referred to trying to access Barclaycard information electronically. Mrs Us 
Barclaycard account was accessed remotely only a limited number of times. Barclaycards 
information does not reflect a substantive level of contact with themselves and Mrs U. Whilst 
I appreciate during the relevant time, Mrs U may have experienced some delays and 
frustration trying to speak to Barclaycard, in the absence of Mrs U recalling any more about 
when she tried to make contact and when she says she was promised a call back, I dont 
consider think theres enough for me to say Barclaycard did anything wrong here, beyond 
what they have accepted. 
More recently Mrs U says she was trying to mainly contact Barclaycard because they didnt 
update her details and in particular her email address. There is nothing on the contact notes 
provided by Barclaycard demonstrating Mrs U contacted them about problems logging into 
her online account.
Whilst I accept the regulator did advise customers that during the Covid pandemic a level of 
inconvenience could be expected when contacting institutions (this being particularly at the 
start of the changes to the way people worked); this doesnt not excuse all experiences. But 
here I think Barclaycard took account of what Mrs U told them about her contact problems 
and their offer was sufficient here. I accept that Mrs U has been frustrated by a number of 
ways in which she was trying to contact Barclaycard and manage her account.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold Mrs Us complaint about Barclaycard, a trading name of 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. I think they offered and paid enough here, in respect of the complaint 
they considered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman