DRN-4068906
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Evolution Insurance Company Limited dealt with 
claims they made under their new home warranty.
Reference to Evolution includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr and Mrs C bought a new home. Its covered by a ten-year warranty, underwritten 
by Evolution, which began in 2020.
They got in touch with the builder about noisy floors, but it didnt resolve the problem, 
so they contacted Evolution in early 2021. It asked the builder to carry out some 
work, which it did, but the problem remained. Evolution said a resilient layer may 
solve the problem and the builder should carry that work out. But when the builder 
didnt do anything further, Evolution said it would take no further action either.
Mr and Mrs C took advice from a structural engineer and a surveyor about it and 
shared the expert opinions with Evolution in January 2022. By May 2022, Evolution 
said the noisy floor problem wasnt covered by the warranty. Mr and Mrs C 
complained about the claim outcome and the way it had been handled.
Evolution responded in June 2022. It apologised for delays but maintained the noisy 
floor problem wasnt covered by the policy because it didnt amount to major 
damage as defined by the policy.
Mr and Mrs C also took advice from a surveyor, who prepared a snagging report 
which identified many problems with their house. After they shared this with Evolution 
in March 2022, it said the report should be referred to the developer first. By August 
2022, the developer told Mr and Mrs C it didnt think any of the problems itemised by 
the surveyor were covered by the warranty. They asked Evolution to consider the 
particular points they thought should be covered under the warranty.
Evolution appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the problems. They said the noisy 
floor problem wasnt covered by the warranty. They thought problems identified with 
the escape pipe and boiler installation were covered by the warranty  but were 
either below the applicable excess and/or hadnt been notified to the builder. They 
didnt think anything else was covered. So, overall, Evolution didnt agree to take any 
further action in relation to the problems.
Mr and Mrs C complained about this outcome and the way things had been handled. 
Evolution responded in December 2022 to say its position hadnt changed.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She set out her 
findings and asked Evolution to:
oConsider the saturated brickwork problem (item 9)
oCover the damp proof course and French drain problem (items 13, 14 and 88)
oConsider the cost of putting right the escape pipe problem (item 28)
oCover the boiler installation problem (items 56 and 57)
oCover the bathroom window restrictor problem (item 95)
oPay £650 compensation for distress and inconvenience
oShe didnt think Evolution needed to consider the remaining points further
Evolution accepted what our investigator said. Mr and Mrs C made a number of 
comments. An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have made numerous complaint points and comments. My role isnt to 
respond to each and every one of them, but to focus on the matters I consider are 
key to reaching and explaining my decision. Thats what Ill do, but its not intended 
as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs C. Nor does it mean I havent read and thought about 
everything theyve said. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this Service.
I also note Mr and Mrs C have asked for multiple separate decisions to be made 
about the different matters theyve complained about. Whilst there are multiple 
claims, a single complaint was referred to this Service about all the claims and 
matters. So it follows that a single decision will be made about that complaint.
Some of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about Evolutions role signing off the building. 
Thats not something I can consider  I can only consider Evolutions role as 
underwriter of the warranty. Similarly, I cant consider the way the builder acted at 
any point, as it wasnt acting on behalf of Evolution in its role as underwriter of the 
warranty. So, my considerations are limited to how Evolution handled the claim, 
including responsibility for the loss adjuster.
I think the main point of dispute is the outcome of the claims. In summary, Mr and 
Mrs C referred several problems to Evolution which they thought should be covered 
by the warranty. After our investigation, Evolution has agreed to do the following:
oConsider the saturated brickwork problem (item 9)
oCover the damp proof course and French drain problem (items 13, 14 and 88)
oConsider the cost of putting right the escape pipe problem (item 28)
oCover the boiler installation problem (items 56 and 57)
oCover the bathroom window restrictor problem (item 95)
As those points have been resolved, I dont think its necessary for me to go into 
them in detail, aside from the applicable excess(es), which Ill come back to below. 
Otherwise, Ill focus on the points that remain in dispute. They are:
oGuttering (item 8)
oElectrics (items 20, 21 and 88)
oNoisy floors and ceilings (items 64, 69, 72, 75 and 82)
oTowel warmers (item 87)oBathroom window vents (items 93, 94 and 108)
The warranty says in Section 2, which these claims have rightly been considered 
under, that the warranty holder will be responsible for paying the amount of any 
excess shown in the certificate of insurance in respect of any claim under this 
section. The certificate of insurance shows the excess is £1,000. The excess is 
defined in the warranty to mean the initial amount relating to each and every claim 
which [Evolution] isnt liable for and says it applies to each and every separately 
identifiable cause of loss or damage, for which we make a payment under this 
insurance.
This means its fair for Evolution to charge a £1,000 excess for each of the separate 
problems  or to decline to pay for a problem where the cost of putting things right is 
less than £1,000. Whether the problems arose due to a failure on Evolutions part 
when signing off the building isnt something I can consider. And because of the way 
the policy is written, payment of the excess isnt dependent on the fault of any party 
anyway  its Mr and Mrs Cs contractual responsibility to pay.
Under Section 2, the warranty covers the reasonable cost of putting right the home 
where it has been affected by major damage. That phrase is defined in the policy at 
length, and isnt disputed, so I wont include it in full here. But, in summary, the ways 
in which a problem can amount to major damage, that are relevant in this case, are:
oIf a defect causes damage to a load-bearing element, which adversely affects 
the homes structural stability or resistance to water penetration.
oIf immediate action is required to prevent damage to a load-bearing element, 
which adversely affects the homes structural stability or resistance to water 
penetration.
oIf a defect requires immediate action to prevent imminent danger to health 
and safety.
oIf a defect to the waterproof envelope allows water to ingress.
Section 2 also provides cover for putting right the home where there is a present or 
imminent danger to the physical health and safety of the occupants because the 
home didnt comply with certain parts of Building Regulations when built.
Ill consider each of the remaining points in turn against this warranty cover.
Guttering (item 8)
The snagging report says the gutter falls the wrong way. Evolution didnt explain 
why it had declined to deal with this item specifically.
Its not clear what impact, if any, there is if the gutter does indeed fall the wrong way. 
Theres no evidence to show it would impact structural stability, cause water 
penetration, or pose a danger. So Im not satisfied this problem amounts to major 
damage or is otherwise covered under Section 2.
Electrics (items 20, 21 and 88)
The snagging report indicates the fuse box doesnt meet Building or relevant 
electrical Regulations because its not labelled, lights flicker, and there should be 
relevant electrical information in place. Evolution didnt explain why it had declined to 
deal with this item specifically.Theres no evidence to show it would impact structural stability, cause water 
penetration, or pose a danger. So Im not satisfied this problem amounts to major 
damage or is otherwise covered under Section 2.
Noisy floors and ceilings (items 64, 69, 72, 75 and 82)
Mr and Mrs C say that because Evolution asked the builder to carry out work for this 
problem initially, it accepted the matter was covered by the warranty. But when the 
builder didnt do the work, it changed its position.
I dont think Evolution went so far as to confirm it had accepted the claim. It initially 
asked the builder to carry out work to try to resolve the problem, as its required to 
do, but that doesnt necessarily mean the problem was covered by the warranty. 
However, Im not satisfied it made this clear to Mr and Mrs C, so I can understand 
their disappointment and frustration that Evolution appeared to change position.
I dont consider Evolution committed itself to carrying out the repairs though. And 
even if it did, it was entitled to look at the claim afresh when the builder didnt do the 
work and decide whether it was covered by the warranty. But Ill take into account the 
impact on Mr and Mrs C below, when looking at the way the claim was handled.
The snagging report says the floors suffer from micro cracking and Mr and Mrs C 
have described how noisy it is, both in the rooms above and below the floors, when 
they walk across the floors. A chartered surveyor said there were no perceived 
structural causes of the problems but they believed the ceilings were inadequately 
fixed. A chartered structural engineer said the design specification of the joists was 
structurally satisfactory but in their opinion minor variations in joist levels meant 
there was some flexing which led to noises when walked on.
Evolution declined to pay for this problem. It said it didnt amount to major damage 
because it didnt impact structural stability.
I know Mr and Mrs C consider the floor was unstable because it moved and made 
loud cracking noises when walked on. And they say the professionals they took 
advice from didnt consider the specific wording of the policy or the meaning of the 
word structural when writing their reports.
The word structural isnt defined in the policy, so it takes its ordinary, everyday 
meaning. The professionals who inspected the problem and gave advice would likely 
be familiar with the normal use of the word structural. They didnt identify any 
structural concerns, suggest there was an impact on the structural stability of the 
home or indicate there was a danger to the occupants. Given both professionals 
have chartered status in relevant fields, and I havent seen anything to the contrary, I 
have no reason to doubt their opinions. In these circumstances, I agree with 
Evolution that the definition of major damage hasnt been met based on the available 
evidence. Its open to Mr and Mrs C to take further advice if they wish, including any 
further investigations they or the professionals may consider appropriate.
Whilst theres clearly a problem, and the professionals have given views on its cause 
and remedy, theres no evidence to show it would impact structural stability, cause 
water penetration, or pose a danger. So Im not satisfied this problem amounts to 
major damage or is otherwise covered under Section 2.Towel warmers (item 87)
The snagging report says the towel warmers havent been fitted with thermostatic 
radiator valves in line with Building Regulations. Evolution didnt explain why it had 
declined to deal with this item specifically.
Whilst Mr and Mrs C say this is dangerous, I havent seen any evidence to show why 
that is. The snagging report suggests the Regulation is concerned with conservation 
of heat and power, rather than maintaining safety.
As theres no evidence to show it would impact structural stability, cause water 
penetration, or pose a danger, Im not satisfied this problem amounts to major 
damage or is otherwise covered under Section 2.
Bathroom window vents (items 93, 94 and 108)
The snagging report says the bathroom window vents have been installed inside out, 
and there isnt a gap for air to flow out. It says the lack of ventilation has probably 
caused cracking in the room. It suggested this didnt meet Building Regulations. 
Evolution didnt explain why it had declined to deal with this item specifically.
Theres no evidence to show this problem would impact structural stability or cause 
water penetration. Rather than causing water ingress, the problem seems to be that 
moisture cant escape the waterproof envelope as well as it should do. Mr and Mrs C 
say the vents pose a danger because they can only be operated from the outside, 
using a ladder at height. But its not clear from the evidence Ive seen that the defect 
itself presents an imminent danger to health and safety. 
So Im not satisfied this problem amounts to major damage or is otherwise covered 
under Section 2.
Next steps
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied the only problems that are covered are 
those outlined by the investigator  and which Evolution has agreed with. The next 
steps are for it consider those problems in line with the terms and conditions of the 
warranty. Im satisfied it can fairly decline the other problems, based on the evidence 
currently available to me. Mr and Mrs C are entitled to take further advice about the 
problems if they wish. Id expect Evolution to consider any information it received.
Claim handling
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is also about the way the claim has been handled. Theyve 
made a number of points, but I think the main ones are about delays, communication, 
and the loss adjuster not being a qualified surveyor.
Our investigator highlighted periods of delay and poor communication. Evolution has 
accepted that, so I wont go over each and every part of the claim. But in summary, 
its clear Evolution struggled to engage meaningfully with the claim throughout.
Evolution initially gave the impression it had accepted the claim for the noisy flooring 
 but later declined to deal with it. Whilst the claim outcome is fair for the reasons 
given above, Im satisfied it would have been distressing for Mr and Mrs C to 
understand, quite rightly, that the main feature of their claim had been accepted, only to find out several months later it hadnt been. Not only is the noise clearly very 
concerning for them, I understand the cost involved in putting that right is significant.
When they provided expert reports about the problem, Evolution was slow to react. 
And when it did, it didnt fully engage with it. It insisted the builders work had 
resolved things  when it clearly hadnt  and didnt inspect the problem for itself.
Once a loss adjuster was appointed, the claim progressed more in line with what Id 
usually expect to see. But, as noted above, the response provided to Mr and Mrs C 
about the problems identified was limited. I dont think that would have given them 
reassurance the problems had been fully considered.
There was no requirement for Evolution to appoint a qualified surveyor to deal with 
the claim, although I can understand why Mr and Mrs C may have preferred that.
All things considered, Im satisfied Evolution caused avoidable distress and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs C by the way it handled the claim. I consider £650 
compensation reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Evolution Insurance Company Limited to:
oConsider the saturated brickwork problem (item 9)
oCover the damp proof course and French drain problem (items 13, 14 and 88)
oConsider the cost of putting right the escape pipe problem (item 28)
oCover the boiler installation problem (items 56 and 57)
oCover the bathroom window restrictor problem (item 95)
oPay £650 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman