DRN-3228879
The complaint
Miss R complains about the charge for excess mileage that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after she voluntarily 
terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to her.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 November 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Miss R under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that she signed in November 2015. The car had a price of £27,500 and 
she agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £385.02 for it to be supplied to her. If 
she wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement shed have to pay an 
optional purchase payment of £14,275 and a purchase activation fee of £10.
The agreement said that Miss R had the right to terminate the agreement and that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement. Miss R voluntarily terminated the agreement 
and returned the car in February 2019. There was a shortfall due from her which she 
paid to Mercedes-Benz Finance but it said that shed exceeded the contractual 
mileage so it charged her for excess mileage.
Miss R complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance and said that there was no 
requirement under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for her to pay for excess mileage 
when she voluntarily terminated the agreement. Mercedes-Benz Finance upheld her 
complaint in part because it said that it had charged her for excess mileage based on 
the wrong mileage. It said that the correct excess mileage charge was £585.12 and 
that the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act that cover a customers right to 
voluntarily terminate their agreement permit it to include any over mileage when 
determining what isnt reasonable when the cars return. Due to its error in calculating 
the charge it offered to reduce the remaining balance by 10% as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Miss R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
The agreement says:
You have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the 
person you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of 
the goods and to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is 
£16,382.98. If you have already paid at least this amount to us plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will 
not have to pay any more.
The agreement also says, under a heading which says Default Charges:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the 
agreement terminates early for any reason), an excess distance charge will 
be payable at the rate of 10.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by which the 
total distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds 
the allowed distance, calculated at the rate of 10000 Miles per year, pro-rated 
for part years (see Condition 12).
Condition 12 sets out more information about the excess mileage charge.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer 
has to voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due 
on termination. The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess 
mileage charges, are required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall 
be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled 
or authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any 
liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. 
If the excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the 
agreement, I consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to make that charge to Miss R.
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you do 
not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates 
early for any reason) and the excess mileage charge is then calculated on the basis 
of the cars mileage after it has been returned  so it would only be known after the 
agreement has been terminated. For these reasons, I consider that Mercedes-Benz 
Finance cant charge for excess mileage in these circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement 
is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the 
agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any 
payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the 
total price exceeds the aggregate of sums paid and the sums due in respect 
of the total price immediately before the termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount 
specified in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the 
creditor in consequence of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, 
the court may make an order for the payment of that sum in lieu of the 
amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the 
goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased 
by the sum required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge Miss R for half of 
the total price of the car under the agreement so, if shed already paid that amount, 
she would not have to pay anything more. Miss R hadnt paid half of the total price to 
Mercedes-Benz Finance so there was a shortfall which she paid to it. Section 100(4) 
allows for the amount to be increased if Miss R has failed to take reasonable care 
of the car.
Under the agreement, the requirement for compensation to be paid because the car 
isnt returned  in good condition, repair and working order  is separate from any 
requirement pay for excess mileage. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage 
limit would be considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that any 
excess mileage charge would be included in the total price of the car. I dont consider 
that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges would 
reasonably be considered to be payable because Miss R had failed to take 
reasonable care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can 
charge for excess mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to 
the extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive 
set out above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning 
excess mileage charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent 
with the protections of the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are 
void to the extent that they relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is 
voluntarily terminated.
Miss R has paid £16,382.98 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and I dont consider that its 
allowed to also charge her for excess mileage in these circumstances. Even if Im 
mistaken about this, I still consider that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld because 
the agreement isnt as clear about the excess mileage charges as it should have 
been.
It's clear from Miss Rs communications with Mercedes-Benz Finance that she 
considered that her liability on voluntary termination of the agreement would be half 
of the total price and that she wouldnt have to pay for any excess mileage. I consider 
that an underlying lack of clarity in the agreement about the cost of voluntarily 
terminating it is also an important consideration as to whether its fair and reasonable 
for a charge for any excess mileage to be made in these circumstances. 
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2 which says: A firm must explain the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as 
required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate explanations); and
CONC 4.2.5 which says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
Ive also considered principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses which says: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
I dont consider that the hire purchase agreement is as clear as it should have been 
or that its consistent with the CONC provisions and the principles for business for the 
following reasons:
one section of the agreement sets out in a box headed Termination: Your 
rights specific wording that Mercedes-Benz Finance was required to include 
in the agreement which says, in effect, that if Miss R had paid at least half the 
total amount payable under the agreement, she would not have to pay any 
more  and theres no further comment in that section about excess mileage 
charges;
the excess mileage charge is set out under a heading Default Charges but I 
dont consider that exceeding the contractual mileage would be a breach of 
contract as the contract specifically included a charge for exceeding that limit 
and I dont consider that excess mileage charges would be properly 
considered to be default charges;
condition 8 of the agreement deals with Early Termination by you but 
doesnt specifically refer to a charge for excess mileage if a customer should 
terminate the agreement early and return the car  but it does refer to another 
condition which deals with additional charges regarding the condition of the 
car;
condition 8 lists what Miss R would need to do and pay when terminating 
early and re-iterates that she must comply with the terms of the statutory 
notice - one of which is that she wont need to pay more than £16,382.98;
condition 12 of the agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance 
charge in circumstances where the car is returned  including early 
termination - but I consider that theres a lack of clarity in the agreement 
about Miss Rs liability if she voluntarily terminated it and I dont consider that 
the terms of the agreement are consistent with the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Act;
condition 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only 
appears to be cross referenced in the section headed Default Charges;
the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum liability for it are 
clearly set out on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box but the terms relating 
to charges for excess mileage, which might affect that liability on early 
termination, are not given equivalent prominence and I consider that theyre 
not clearly and consistently set out or referred to; and
condition 12 is included in the terms and conditions of the agreement and is 
not signposted in a way that would have naturally drawn Miss Rs attention to 
it if she was intending to return the car early.
I consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination could result in a significant adverse effect on Miss R in a way she was unlikely to foresee. I dont consider that she was properly or adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase her liability beyond the 
£16,382.98 payable on voluntary termination of her agreement. I dont consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has met its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5.
For reasons similar to those set out in the bullet points above, I dont consider that 
the agreement is clear, fair and not misleading - so I dont consider that Mercedes-
Benz Finance has complied with principle 7 of the Principles for Businesses. I 
consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement is likely to have prejudiced Miss R 
financially and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to charge Miss R for excess mileage in these circumstances.
I understand that Miss R hasnt paid the excess mileage charge and I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to now remove that charge 
from her account. If its recorded any adverse information on her credit file relating to 
that charge, I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to remove that 
information.
Subject to any further comments from Miss R or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my 
provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Miss R has accepted my 
provisional decision but Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt responded to the provisional findings 
that I made in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt responded to my provisional findings and Miss R has 
accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions 
described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the charge of £585.12 from Miss Rs account.
2. Remove any adverse information about that charge that its recorded on Miss Rs 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman