DRN-4115604
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering his car. In August 2022 he was 
involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle which damaged his car. He made a claim. 
Liability for the accident was disputed by the third party and this remained unresolved when 
the case was brought to this service.
There was a delay in Advantage finding a garage to repair the car because the repairers in 
its network were at full capacity.
Mr K chose to not use a hire car offered to him by Advantage.
Advantage assessed the repairs needed. Mr K asked that he received cash-in-lieu of 
settlement so that he could have repairs done by his own choice of repairer rather than 
Advantages. 
Advantage said it couldnt do this because it had already assessed Mr Ks car. Mr K replied 
that he would pay for the cost of an engineers inspection if necessary. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Advantages responses and he complained.
Advantage upheld his complaint in part. It said it agreed there had been a delay in allocating 
a garage and said it would pay Mr K £75 compensation. But it also said it wouldnt pay Mr K 
for a courtesy car and it was continuing to chase the third party over liability for the collision. 
Advantage said that it wouldnt allow Mr K to get the car repaired elsewhere.
Mr K remained unhappy and he brought his complaint to this service. He asks that 
Advantage pay him cash so that he can have his car repaired by the repairer of his choice. 
He asks for Advantage pay for the hire car costs he didnt use and additional compensation 
for the delay awaiting a repairer to be allocated. He also asks that a joint expert examines 
both cars to properly determine liability.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. They said they thought Advantages offer 
of £75 compensation was fair, but it was Mr Ks choice to not have a hire car so it wasnt fair 
to ask Advantage to pay Mr K the money instead. They also said that Advantage had 
already authorised the repairs from its garage so didnt need to change that, or incur further 
costs by appointing an engineer.
Mr K didnt accept the view. He said that Advantages position wouldnt be prejudiced as it 
would simply need to pay the amount it was going to pay its own repairer. He is willing to pay 
for the cost of an engineer to assess his car. He also mentions that the costs of repair will 
have increased over time and he doesnt think that Advantages garage would be able to 
carry out the work to his satisfaction. 
Because Mr K didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to consider things further:
Im proposing to uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and Ill explain why as my decision is 
different from our investigators. 
Ill review each part of his complaint separately for ease of reading:
Choice of repairer
In its final response to Mr K, Advantage said Mr Ks 
only option [is] to have your vehicle repaired by [our repairer] as the estimate has 
already been approved by [us]
It says this is because of the terms of its policy which says:
Your Insurer will do one of the following:
Pay for any necessary repairs
Repair the damage
Advantage has also said it wouldnt pay for an engineers assessment as it has a duty to 
keep claim costs to a minimum.
Ive looked at Advantages policy wording and I have found the following section which would 
apply to Mr Ks claim:
"Can I choose my own repairer/garage? 
Yes, you can take your Car to a repairer of your choice but if you do so you wont be 
entitled to the benefits available under the Nominated Repairer scheme. Youll also 
need to submit a repair estimate to your Insurer for authorisation before the work can 
start, which may delay the progress of your claim and the repairs to your Car."
It seems to me that Advantage is very clear that its possible to have a car repaired by Mr Ks 
choice of repairer. I dont think Advantages reasoning its used in its final response is logical 
and I dont think its position is reasonable. 
So, I think its fair that Mr K obtains a repair estimate from his choice of repairer and submits 
it to Advantage for authorisation under the terms of his policy.
If Mr K is unhappy about the authorisation of these repairs then hes free to complain to 
Advantage, and this service in due course if he remains unhappy. 
Hire car
Mr K has asked that Advantage pay him the cost of the hire car he didnt use. He says he 
doesnt think its fair that Advantage make money from his inconvenience because he chose 
to keep the claims cost down.
It seems to me that there may have been some misunderstanding about the supply of this 
hire car. There seems to be a provision under the policy to supply a courtesy car  which is 
done by Advantages approved repairer when the car is being repaired. Mr Ks car hasnt been repaired, and Ive explained above that he wants to have the car repaired by his own 
repairer. So he should realise that he wont be entitled to this courtesy car if he chooses that 
route.
I can see in the file several references to hire car and recovering the costs for this. It seems 
to me that this is possibly referring to Mr K being provided with a car on what is often called 
a credit-hire basis; the cost of which is often recovered from a third-party who caused the 
collision. I can see that the choice to not use a hire car was Mr Ks choice.
So, I dont think Mr K has reasonably been entitled to a courtesy car under his policy so far, 
and the provision of a hire car is most likely subject to a separate agreement which doesnt 
fall under the remit of this service, so Im not able to consider it here.
Liability for the collision
Mr K has asked for an engineer to inspect his car. From the evidence I have, I can see that 
there are two reasons for this. The first is to ascertain the costs of repair and Ive said above 
I think its fair that Mr K gets his own estimate for the repairs from his own choice of garage. 
If Advantage want to contend this, it will probably need to use its own engineer to inspect the 
car and provide evidence about why it disputes this.
The second reason is because Mr K wants both his and the third-party vehicle to be 
examined to explore who was liable for the collision.
The policy wording contains a section that deals with this:
Your Insurer has the right to:
Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim
This type of wording is common in the industry and its fair for Advantage to use it here.
I appreciate that Mr K feels strongly about the collision and I can see from the file that liability 
is still disputed because the third-party insurance company hasnt responded fully.
I understand that Mr K thinks Advantage hasnt worked quickly enough to establish liability, 
but I can see from the file that the third party is at least partly responsible for this. So I dont 
think I can reasonably hold Advantage responsible so far, and as I say above its fair that 
Advantage ultimately can make the decision about who was liable for the collision.
Claims service
From the file I can see that Advantage had nominated its repairer just over one month after 
the collision. I can also see Mr K has said hes made over 50 calls to Advantage about it 
allocating his car to its choice of repairer. Mr K has provided this information in response to 
Advantages final response letter.
It seems to me this is excessive. I think the inconvenience caused to Mr K has been 
significant and I dont think Advantages offer of £75 is enough. I think a compensation level 
of £200 in total would be in line with this services recommendations for the chasing Mr K 
has had to do, and Advantages poor service during his claim.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr K accepted my provisional decision. 
Advantage responded and said it didnt withdraw Mr Ks right to use his own repairer. I sent it 
part of its final response letter which said:
and the only option remains to have your vehicle repaired by [our specified repairer]
Advantage didnt reply further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr K agreed with my provisional decision, and Advantage didnt send any further 
information, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Consider Mr Ks claim for his own choice of repairer to fix his car under the 
terms of his policy.
Pay Mr K a total of £200 compensation for his inconvenience caused by its 
poor service. This includes £75 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman