DRN-4458018
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark 
(Sterling) failed to pay her income from her pension savings in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Sterling needed to do in order to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mrs G held pension savings with Sterling. In March 2023 she requested, via her 
financial advisor, that her pension savings be used to provide her with a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) and a 
regular annual income payment. The request was sent by her financial advisor to 
Sterling and was received by the firm on 24 March.
Sterling paid the PCLS to Mrs G the same day. And it sent her a drawdown income 
summary document, also dated 24 March, confirming that her first annual income 
payment would be made on 3 April. Mrs G says that date was important as she 
hadnt used her income tax personal allowance for the tax year 2022-23 so wouldnt 
need to pay income tax on her annual income payment.
But the payment to Mrs G wasnt made until 11 April. When she complained to 
Sterling about the delay it told her that her financial advisor had been made aware 
that end of tax year deadlines were in place, and that her request would have needed 
to have been received by 16 March for it to be paid in that tax year. So Sterling didnt 
think it had unfairly delayed Mrs Gs payment and suggested that she discuss the 
problem with her financial advisor. Unhappy with that response Mrs G brought her 
complaint to us.
I think some of the basic facts that underpin this complaint are not in dispute. I have 
seen that, on 1 March, Sterling published information about the deadlines it would 
need to apply to transactions approaching the forthcoming end of the tax year. The 
deadline that applied to Mrs Gs request, to set up a new regular pension income 
payment, was 16 March. The request that Mrs Gs financial advisor submitted on her 
behalf was made on 24 March, so around a week later than Sterlings deadline.
The end of the tax year is exceptionally busy for pension providers. So it isnt at all 
unreasonable that firms should put deadlines in place to ensure consumers 
expectations are fairly managed, and that there is sufficient time for all instructions to 
be processed. Mrs Gs instruction was received well after the deadline date, so it 
wouldnt have been at all unreasonable for Sterling to tell her that the requested 
income couldnt be paid until the following tax year.
But that isnt what happened. On the day that Mrs Gs instruction was submitted she 
received confirmation from Sterling that her payment would be made on 3 April  so 
before the end of the tax year. I dont think that should have raised any alarm bells 
with Mrs G. Whilst it is entirely clear that her request had missed the deadline, that 
wouldnt necessarily mean that Sterling would be unable to process it in time. It 
might, for example, have received far fewer requests than it had anticipated when the 
deadline was originally set. And it wouldnt be unreasonable to think that, in 
circumstances such as those, Sterling would use its additional capacity to process 
whatever transactions it could. I think that was the obvious conclusion that could 
have been drawn from the information it sent to Mrs G.
I think that, when Sterling wrote to Mrs G and told her that it would make the first 
payment on 3 April, it formed an agreement that is what it would do. As Ive said 
above, Sterling would have been entirely within its rights to delay Mrs Gs request. 
But, once it provided her with confirmation of the date her income would be paid it is 
reasonable for her to expect that date to be met. I think that the subsequent issue of 
the specific and personalised information about Mrs Gs pension arrangements 
superseded the generic deadline information Sterling had published more than three 
weeks earlier.
Sterling didnt make the payment to Mrs G until 11 April. It told her that date was in 
line with what would be expected given she hadnt met the deadlines it had 
previously set out. But for the reasons Ive given above I dont currently think that is a 
reasonable conclusion. So Im minded to conclude that Mrs Gs payment was made 
8 days later than it should have been. And, as I will now go on to explain, that delay 
has caused Mrs G to lose out. So, subject to any further comments I receive on these 
provisional findings I intend to direct Sterling to pay Mrs G some compensation.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mrs G didnt provide anything further. Sterling has said that it doesnt 
agree with my provisional findings and has provided some additional comments. Although 
I am only summarising here what Sterling has said, I want to be clear that I have read, and 
carefully considered, the entire response.
Sterling accepts that the letter it sent to Mrs G was misleading and apologises for that. But it 
points out that the Advance platform is for advised consumers only, and so Mrs Gs advisor 
was responsible for guiding her through the income process. It says that it had clearly set out 
to advisors the deadlines that would apply to income requests made in the run up to the end 
of the tax year. So it says that Mrs Gs advisor should have been well aware, and passed 
that information onto Mrs G, that her payment instruction had been submitted after the 
published deadline. So it says that it doesnt think Sterling should be expected to pay any 
compensation to Mrs G in respect of the income tax that was deducted from her income 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mrs G and by Sterling. Where 
the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked carefully at the response that Sterling has provided to my provisional decision. 
But there is little new information in that response, and so Im not minded that I should 
change the findings that I reached in my provisional decision. But I will, for completeness, 
repeat some of my findings on the matters that Sterling raises.
There is no doubt that Sterling clearly set out the deadlines that would need to be met in 
order for a consumers income payment to be guaranteed to be made before the end of the 
tax year. And it is equally clear that the instruction submitted on Mrs Gs behalf by her 
financial advisor was received by Sterling after the deadline that had been set. So, as I said 
in my provisional decision, Sterling would have been perfectly entitled to tell Mrs G that her 
payment wouldnt be made in the current tax year. And, had that been contrary to her 
expectations, that would have been something she would have needed to discuss with her 
financial advisor who, as Sterling correctly points out, was responsible for managing Mrs Gs 
pension investments via the Advance platform.
But Sterling sent what it has told us was a misleading document to Mrs G telling her that her 
income payment would be made on 3 April  before the end of the tax year. I think it was 
entirely reasonable for Mrs G, once she had received that letter, to expect the payment to be 
made in line with what Sterling had told her. I havent seen anything to make me think there 
were any reasons, other than Sterlings potential processing capacity, that would mean that 
payment could not be made. So as I set out in my provisional decision I think it was 
reasonable for Mrs G to conclude that Sterling would be able to make the payment despite 
its earlier warnings about the processing deadlines.
So my conclusion remains that Mrs Gs payment was made 8 days later than it should have 
been. And as I set out in my provisional decision, and repeat below for clarity, that delay 
has caused Mrs G to lose out. So I am directing Sterling to pay Mrs G some compensation.
Putting things right
I think the impact of the delayed payment is twofold. Mrs G has told us that she hadnt used 
her personal tax allowance for tax year 2022-23 so if the payment had been made on the 
agreed date it wouldnt have caused any income tax liability. And Mrs G has lost out on the 
use of her income payment for a period of 8 days. So to put things right I direct Sterling to;
Pay Mrs G an equivalent amount to the income tax she will have needed to pay on 
the income payment that was delayed. That payment was valued at £2,679 so the 
basic rate tax payable at a rate of 20% would be £535.80Pay 8 days of simple interest Mrs G at a rate of 8% per annum on the total amount of 
her income payment. HM Revenue & Customs requires Sterling to take off tax from 
this interest. Sterling must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Sterling ISA Managers Limited 
trading as Advance by Embark to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman