DRN-4412994
The complaint
Mr L and Mr M complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA handled a claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in August 2022, Mr L and Mr M booked a trip visiting several 
countries. Their departure date was 6 June 2023, and their intended return date was    
23 June 2023. They also purchased a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
IPA. Unfortunately, Mr L and Mr M had to curtail their trip because Mr Ls father was 
critically ill. They booked additional return flights and onward train travel. 
In mid-June 2023, Mr L and Mr M made a claim against their policy for unused and 
additional costs. In August 2023, IPA said on three occasions that it would pay Mr L and 
Mr M over £18,000 in settlement of their claim. Subsequently, IPA paid only £10,000.   
Mr L and Mr M complained about that. 
IPA acknowledged that it made errors in that it referred to the amount of Mr L and Mr Ms 
claim, without reference to the policy limits. It apologised for its errors and offered Mr L 
and Mr M compensation of £150.
Mr L and Mr M complained about IPAs handling of their claim. They say that IPA told 
them on three occasions that it would pay them over £18,000 in settlement of their claim. 
Mr L and Mr M say that they accepted that offer and that there was a legally binding 
contract for payment of that amount. They want IPA to settle their claim in full and to pay 
interest. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that IPA had settled 
the claim in accordance with the policy terms and in line with the relevant benefit limits of 
£5,000 per person, per claim. The investigator didnt agree that there was a new contract 
in the terms suggested by Mr L and Mr M. She thought that IPAs offer of compensation 
was fair in relation to Mr L and Mr Ms loss of expectation. 
Mr L and Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. They didnt think that IPAs offer of 
compensation of £150  which they said it hadnt yet paid - was sufficient in the 
circumstances here. Mr L and Mr M reiterated that a new contract was formed when IPA 
offered to settle their claim at over £18,000 and went through the elements that were 
present for the formation of a new contract. They say that the recordings of the phone 
calls will confirm what they were told. Mr L and Mr M asked that an ombudsman consider 
their complaint. 
The investigator considered what Mr L and Mr M said but didnt change her view. In 
accordance with Mr L and Mr Ms request, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the circumstances which led to Mr L and Mr Ms claim, and Id like 
to extend my condolences.   
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
Your Cover
Section 1  Cancelling or cutting short a trip
[]
What is covered
[]
Cover for cutting short your trip
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Table of Benefits for your proportion only of 
your unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges, together with 
any reasonable additional travel and expenses if you have to cut short your trip following 
any of the reasons which are shown in the table below
[]
The death, [], illness, [] of [] your close relative. []
The Table of Benefits shows that the sum insured per person/per trip is up to £5,000 for   
Mr L and Mr Ms level of cover. 
has IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. I dont uphold Mr L and Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why:    
Its common ground that Mr L and Mr M had a valid claim against their policy in 
relation to the curtailment of their trip. IPA paid Mr L and Mr M the maximum sum 
insured per person for their curtailment claim. Im satisfied that it acted in 
accordance with the policy terms in doing so. But thats not the end of the matter as 
Ive gone on to consider the incorrect information IPA gave to Mr L and Mr M.
IPA acknowledges that during the course of the claim it told Mr L and Mr M, 
incorrectly, that it would pay them over £18,000. Mr L and Mr M have referred to 
the recordings of the relevant phone calls. I havent asked IPA to provide the 
recordings as I dont need them for the fair resolution of this complaint. Thats 
because its not in dispute that IPA gave Mr L and Mr M incorrect information about 
the amount it would pay in settlement of their claim. 
Mr L and Mr M say that they accepted IPAs offer to pay them over £18,000 and  
there was a legally binding contract for payment of that amount. Im afraid I dont 
agree. There was no intention on IPAs part to be legally bound by the incorrect 
settlement amount. And there was no new consideration on Mr L and Mr Ms part  
they had already paid the premium in exchange for the cover in the terms and 
conditions. When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information is true. Instead, we look at the effect of the incorrect information on the 
parties. Here, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L and Mr M changed their 
position in reliance on the incorrect information - they had already made their 
decisions about curtailment and travel home when IPA gave them the incorrect 
information. But they were no doubt disappointed to discover the true position. 
I think that the compensation of £150 IPA has already offered is fair and 
reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, 
extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by IPAs errors. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr L and Mr M said that IPA hasnt yet paid 
the compensation it offered. But in an e-mail to IPA of 22 September 2023, Mr M 
acknowledged receipt of £150. If Mr L and Mr M maintain that IPA hasnt paid the 
compensation it offered in relation to this matter it should contact IPA about that in 
the first instance. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L and Mr M. I appreciate that they have suffered financial 
loss in difficult circumstances. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think that IPA 
has settled their claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of their policy 
and I dont think that its required to do more than its already done in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because the amount of compensation 
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already offered to pay or paid is fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman