DRN-4363540
The complaint
Mr G complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked his account and withheld 
the funds in it. 
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this Mr G couldnt access his funds.
The original restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began the 
process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. Epayments explained it 
was now taking steps to enable Mr G to access his funds. But this would be subject to Mr G 
passing the checks, and he will be emailed about the next steps in due course.
Around September 2022, Mr G was invited to start the refunds process. Mr G started 
sending Epayments the information it requested of him. However, on several occasions he 
was told the Banking partners Epayments were working with were not satisfied with the 
information he sent for its checks.
Epayments required information from Mr G to show his entitlement to the funds. Mr G was 
unable to get statements from the e-wallet he used to transfer funds to his Epayments 
account as that company has since liquidated.  
Unhappy with the delays and for not receiving his funds that were withheld by Epayments 
since 2020, Mr G complained. 
Epayments apologised to Mr G for any distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
processing his refund. It explained it has obligations to meet when carrying out such refunds, 
and the information Mr G has to date provided hasnt been deemed satisfactory. 
Epayments also explained that it had to temporarily pause its processing of certain refunds 
 and it must ensure its checks meet all legal requirements. Mr G referred his complaint to 
this service. 
Mr G started providing more information to help Epayments complete its checks. 
Our Investigator also approached the liquidators of the firm Mr G used to transfer his funds 
from to his Epayments account to get a statement. When they received some information, 
they forwarded this onto Epayments.  
In June 2023, Epayments said Mr G was now in the final stages of its checks. And in 
July 2023 it told Mr G, that following the FCAs involvement, it was now ready to resume 
issuing refunds to its customers. 
Later in July 2023, Epayments offered Mr G 1% of his balance, and £150, compensation.  
Mr G did not agree as he thinks Epayments should pay interest comparable to the rate of 
inflation for the time hes been without access to his funds.  
On 4 August 2023, Epayments successfully refunded Mr Gs funds. Epayments also said it 
couldnt pay further compensation from that which it had already offered as its terms and 
conditions entitled it to withhold the funds. And, Electronic Money Institutions (EMI), like 
itself, do not pay interest on its accounts. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. In summary, they found: 
- The reason Epayments accounts were restricted was due to weaknesses in 
Epayments financial crime controls, which were identified by the FCA. So 
Epayments is responsible for the impact to Mr G for not having access to his funds
- Epayments should pay Mr G 8% simple interest per annum on the funds from when 
they were blocked until settlement. This is in line with industry standards for 
compensation and covers multiple uses of the money  
- Pay Mr G £150 for the distress and inconvenience the blocks had on him 
- If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions were charged by 
Epayments or their banking partner during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded
Mr G agreed with what our Investigator said. Epayments did not, and in summary have 
made the following key points: 
- Epayments agreed with the FCA in 2020 to suspend its operation of accounts to help 
remediation steps to be taken under its supervision. This process became protracted 
for a myriad of reasons. Because of this it took the decision to enter a solvent 
wind-down. Epayments have not been found to have breached its legal requirements 
and it must comply with the FCAs recommendations. 
So, its inaccurate and a very significant over-simplification to blame all the delays on 
Epayments
- The terms of the account Mr G signed up to allow Epayments to suspend (or 
terminate) the operation of accounts where it believes it is required do so because of 
law or regulation. These provisions also allow the re-opening of the account to be in 
the sole discretion of Epayments. Because of this, Mr G has no entitlement for 
payment related to delays 
- As EMIs do not pay interest on its accounts, Mr G would have had no reasonable 
expectation or right to any. Mr G should provide evidence of what he would have 
done with the money to show awarding interest in this way is fair
- By awarding 8% simple interest, Epayments ability to solvently wind-down will be 
adversely impacted 
As Epayments did not agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr G and Epayments have 
said before reaching my decision. 
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This significantly impacted Mr G, given he had no 
access to his funds from February 2020 up until they were released in August 2023.
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Mr Gs funds during this period. Epayments say it shouldnt 
be held fully liable for any detriment to Mr G whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed. 
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. And I dont think this is an 
over-simplification as Epayments suggest. 
So I think Epayments should put things right by addressing the fact Mr G has been deprived 
of his funds through no fault of his own.
Mr G received his funds in August 2023 after the process was started, albeit intermittently 
ceased, from September 2020.  As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with 
extensive legal and regulatory obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its 
customer relationship  from application to eventually the end of the relationship. This 
includes Know Your Customer (KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
So any refund of funds would have been subject to these checks. Its worth noting these 
checks include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the 
purpose and intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
It's difficult to find if Epayments caused any delay here given it had to intermittently stop the 
refund process and it involved a liquidated business and other banking partners. But Im 
persuaded the award I will be making of 8% simple interest will address the matter of Mr G 
being deprived of his funds for as long as he was.
I note Epayments dont agree with 8% simple interest being added because there isnt any 
way of knowing how Mr G would have used his funds should he have had access to them. I 
also note Epayments wants to see evidence of how he would have utilised these funds. 
Mr G says he has shown Epayments that the funds came from crypto currency exchange(s). 
Such exchanges are normally done for the purpose of creating financial gain. But even if that 
wasnt the case here, awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer has wrongly been 
deprived of their funds is in line with the approach at this service. I havent seen compelling 
enough reasons as to why Mr G shouldnt be awarded compensation in this way, so Im 
satisfied this is fair redress.Im also satisfied £150 compensation is fair award for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused Mr G. In reaching this award, Ive considered Mr G has been 
inconvenienced when chasing Epayments for answers, and how having such a substantive 
sum withheld in this way would cause him stress and anxiety.
If Epayments, or its partners, have charged Mr G any conversion or commission fees when 
releasing the funds, these should be refunded as I dont think its fair or reasonable for them 
to be applied. 
Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not my 
intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of our 
service. My role here is ultimately to decide a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Epayments must:
- Pay 8% simple interest on the funds it released to Mr G from when it first restricted 
his access up until settlement*
- Not apply any fees or charges for releasing funds to Mr G  as detailed above. If it or 
its banking partner has applied such charges, they should be refunded
- Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
*If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman