DRN-4149948
The complaint
Mr K complains APFIN LTD trading as cashasap.co.uk (Apfin) provided him with a loan 
when he already had multiple outstanding payday loans, a number of credit cards at their 
credit limits and defaulted loans to the value of £18,000. 
What happened
Mr K was granted one loan on 9 July 2022 for £150. Mr K was due to make six monthly 
payments  which decreased each month. The first payment was for £61.95 with the final 
payment due to be £31.16. Apfin says an outstanding balance is still due to be paid.  
Apfin considered the complaint, and it didnt uphold it. It said the loan value was a small 
amount compared to Mr Ks declared monthly income and Apfin was entitled to rely on the 
information Mr K had provided which showed the loan to be affordable. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr K referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said Apfin had 
reasonable grounds to believe Mr K could afford the loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr K didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision. In summary he said:
He had defaults recorded against him in 2017 and 2018  and these were still 
outstanding at the time. And as such there ought to have been an expectation that he 
would make repayments towards the defaulted sums of around 5% per month  
meaning payments of around £900 per month were due to the defaulted creditors. 
There were other payday lenders outstanding at the time costing £400 per month and 
he had a large amount still outstanding. 
Mr K was also at his credit limit across a number of credit cards. 
The credit report shows that Mr K was overindebted. 
Mr K had another complaint assessed by the Financial Ombudsman Service which 
was upheld and the loan in the other case was advanced only a few months before 
the Apfin one. And as a previous loan has been upheld due to irresponsible lending, 
then so should this one. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Apfin had to assess the lending to check if Mr K could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Apfins checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ks income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Apfin should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include:
Mr K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr K. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Ks complaint because there was only one loan.  
Apfin was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr K was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Apfin asked Mr K for details of his income, which he declared 
as being £2,102 per month. As this was the first loan, Mr K confirmed this figure to be 
accurate it was reasonable for Apfin to have relied on it.   
Mr K also declared monthly outgoings of £550 for the loan and this was broken down as £50 
for travel and £500 for outstanding credit commitments. Mr K didnt declare any costs for 
rent, utilities, or other household bills. And that, in certain circumstances ought to have been 
a concern for Apfin. 
But it says that Mr K declared he lived at home with his parents, so it would explain why he 
may not have had these costs and it also meant he wouldnt be exposed to having to make 
payment for a priority bill such as a mortgage. For a first loan, I think it was reasonable for 
Apfin to have relied on what Mr K told it about his income and expenditure. 
After carrying out these checks, Mr K had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford 
the largest repayment of around £62 per month. The loan wouldve looked affordable. Before the loan was approved Apfin also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Apfin carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Apfin couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr K was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew 
there were no insolvency markers, defaults recorded within the last three years or delinquent 
accounts within the last year. 
The headline figures were that Apfin knew that Mr K had 12 active credit accounts and had 
opened three accounts within the last six months. The number of active accounts as well as 
the number opened within the last six months, in my view wouldnt have indicated to Apfin 
that Mr K was reliant on this sort of high-cost credit. 
It also knew that Mr K in 2017 must have had significant financial difficulties because he 
defaulted on at least 9 accounts in that year totalling nearly £20,000 worth of debt. But, Apfin 
knew, from the credit results that no further accounts had defaulted since 2019 and Mr K 
hadnt had any repaymnet problems leading to missed payment markers within the last 
12 months before this loan was approved. So it wouldve been apparent that whatever the 
financial difficulties were in 2017 had now ben resolved. 
So, while, the number of defaults in 2017 may have been of a concern, I have also 
considered these defaults were five years or so before this modest loan was advanced, I 
think it was reasonable for Apfin not to have made further enquires and / or declined this 
loan application solely due to the defaults.  
I also dont think Apfin wouldve thought that Mr K was making repayments to the defaulted 
balances at a rate of 5% of the total  when there was no evidence to support that. This 
means I dont think it had to factor in payments to the defaulted account balances at that rate 
when trying to establish Mr Ks monthly living costs. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Apfin to have relied on the 
information Mr K gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that Mr K was having current financial difficulties or that the loan 
would be unsustainable for him. 
Mr K says that as another complaint he raised, about a loan from anther provider which was 
advanced before this Apfin loan has been upheld, it therefore follows this complaint should 
also be upheld. I thank Mr K for drawing this the complaint to my attention and I can quite 
understand given the other complaint, why Mr K feels this complaint should also be upheld.
However, my remit is to consider the circumstances of this complaint and given the relativity 
small loan amount advanced and the checks that Apfin carried out, I do not think this loan 
should be upheld. And just because another complaint has been upheld it doesnt 
automatically follow that all other loans, advanced by other lenders should also be upheld. 
This will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to, the number of loans 
advanced, the amount of funds advanced and the checks the lender may have conducted. 
But importantly, I have to consider the individual circumstances of each complaint, which is 
what I have done here. I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by the decision Ive reached on this case but having 
reviewed all the information I am not upholding it. 
An outstanding balance remains due, and I would remind Apfin of its obligation to treat 
Mr K fairly and with forbearance  if necessary. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman