DRN-1657996
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium policy bought in March 1995 when Mrs H took 
out a store card during a meeting while she was shopping.
The PPI policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 of Mrs Hs statement balance at the point 
of sale. If shed made a successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim the policy 
wouldve paid 15% of her outstanding monthly balance on the store card until the balance 
was cleared, or she returned to work.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. They thought that AXA hadnt properly explained 
that the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. And, as Mrs H suffered from a 
pre-existing medical condition, when she took out the policy, she thought that she wouldnt 
have taken it out if AXA had made this information clear enough.
AXA didnt agree so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case. Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint for the same reasons as set out by 
our adjudicator.
Based on the evidence available to me, it seems that the policy wouldnt have paid out if 
Mrs H had been off work due to a pre-existing medical condition. This is a significant 
limitation and should have been drawn to her attention at the point of sale. 
This matters because Mrs H had a medical condition, the details of which are known to all 
parties. And shes had this condition since childhood. AXA told us that although it believed 
Mrs H has this medical condition, there is nothing to suggest the affect (sic) it had on the 
customers ability to work at the point of sale. But this misses the point entirely; the medical 
condition could lead to other complications, which might result in extended periods of time 
off work. And in these circumstances, Mrs H wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy.
I accept that the policy wouldve still covered Mrs H for time off work due to other conditions, 
as well as providing other benefits. But I dont think that the other benefits offered by the 
policy would have been enough to convince Mrs H to take out the cover despite the terms 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions. So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs H wouldve bought the policy if shed 
been properly informed. So I think Mrs H has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
I think that Mrs H wouldve still taken out the store card, but without the PPI policy. It follows 
that I uphold this complaint and ask AXA to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and AXA should:
 
A. Find out how much Mrs H would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. AXA should 
then refund the difference between what Mrs H owes and what she would have 
owed. If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs H paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs H would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
 
C. AXA should tell Mrs H what it has done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reason above, my final decision is that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. 
AXA France IARD must pay Mrs H compensation as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman