DRN-4355653
The complaint
Mr B and Miss B have complained about the service provided by Astrenska Insurance
Limited (Astrenska) under their landlords home emergency insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Astrenska includes its agents, representatives and
contractors in this decision letter.
What happened
The boiler at Mr B and Miss Bs tenanted property broke down in December 2022 and they
contacted Astrenska as their insurer. Mr B and Miss B were unhappy as Astrenska wasnt
able to arrange urgent assistance. They engaged an engineer themselves to fix the problem.
They said that theyd had to phone Astrenska on numerous occasions to try to get
assistance. 
Astrenska reimbursed one invoice for £60 from the relevant engineers, but not
the invoice of £168 for replacement of a faulty thermostat. It said that this wasnt covered
under the emergency insurance policy. Astrenska accepted certain service failures and
offered compensation of £30, and later £50 to Mr B and Miss B. However, they wanted a
total of £500 for distress and inconvenience, being £250 for the impact on themselves and
£250 for the impact on their tenants. Astrenska didnt agree.
Mr B and Miss B were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Astrenska and they
referred it to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold the complaint and
considered that Astrenska had treated Mr B and Miss B fairly and reasonably regarding their
claim and complaint. He noted that Astrenskas attempts to appoint a heating engineer were
unsuccessful, and that the earliest appointment offered was three days later. However, he
also noted that when it couldnt promptly appoint a heating engineer, it provided a
reasonable alternative. 
The alternative was for Mr B and Miss B to proceed with their own engineer and to reclaim 
eligible costs from Astrenska. The investigator concluded that he was unable to say that 
Astrenska didn't provide the service that it was obliged to provide under the policy, as there 
were no specified timescales . He also thought it had made sufficient efforts to provide an 
engineer promptly, but this hadn't been possible.
Mr B and Miss B remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint, and the matter was 
therefore referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In August 2023, 
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold 
Mr B and Miss Bs complaint as follows; -
The issue for me to determine is whether Astrenska acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
in all respects in relation to Mr B and Miss Bs claim under the relevant home emergency
policy. I dont consider that it did so in all respects, and Ill explain why. In reaching this
provisional decision, Ive considered the submissions of the parties as summarised below.
Firstly, I turn to Mr B and Miss Bs submissions. They considered that Astrenska had been
responsible for service failures. When they reported the boiler breakdown in December
2022, they were told an engineer would be sent the same day. Mr B phoned again and was
told to continue to wait. He said he telephoned again after his call was cancelled seven
times. A representative promised to phone back but didnt. Following a further phone call to
the representative, he was told that hed contacted another engineer, but with no response.
Again, the representative said hed phone back to confirm that someone would definitely
attend that evening. Again, this didnt happen, and Mr B e-mailed Astrenska complaining that
this was meant to be an emergency service and felt that the delay was totally unacceptable.
Hed had to wait in all afternoon and evening.
On the third day, Mr B and Miss B got their own heating engineer to fix the problem as
Astrenska said that they couldnt get an engineer out before new year. They said theyd
made over thirty telephone calls in total and had sent several emails before they finally found
a solution themselves. They said that their tenant was without heating and hot water for
three days. In conclusion, Mr B and Miss B were looking for compensation for the three days
that theyd spent trying to resolve the problem and further compensation for the tenant for
having to live without heating and hot water for three days. Whilst Astrenska upheld Mr B
and Miss Bs complaint, they felt the compensation offered to be derisory and an insult.
In conclusion, Mr B and Miss B said that Astrenska had said the policys purpose was to 
provide swift and effective assistance when a domestic emergency occurs and to provide 
landlords and tenants with a reliable service, fully qualified engineers and a speedy helpful
response. Mr B and Miss B said that Astrenska failed on both counts. They provided a
definition of an emergency as a sudden serious and dangerous event that needs immediate
action to deal with it. They therefore considered that the insurers hadnt provided the service
they paid for and were in breach of contract. They now had no faith in the insurer as it failed
to provide the promised emergency service.
I now turn to Astrenskas submissions. It had said that upon checking the policy cover it
decided that the thermostat replacement wasnt covered by the policy, as it referenced any
costs relating to the repair or replacement of the central heating pump or wall or room
thermostat. However, it said it was able to reimburse Mr B and Miss for the engineer's initial
attendance in the sum of £60. As to the complaint about a lack of contact and updates, and
incorrect information being given, it upheld the complaint and accepted that a call-back and
estimated time of engineer arrival shouldnt have been given. Nevertheless, it said the most
it would offer in addition to the £30 gesture of good will and the payment of Mr B and Miss
Bs private engineers was a further £50 for the contractors confusion and delays.
Astrenska also provided its case notes which evidenced the fact that it had used its
contractor network and tried to deploy several contractors, but struggled to get an engineer
out due to lack of availability over the weekend, (the incident occurred on a Sunday).
Astrenska had tried again at the beginning of the week and agreed that Mr B and Miss B
could get the work done themselves and claim reimbursement. It continued to try to source a
contractor, but its approved contractor didnt have availability until after the Christmas period.
A separate approved contractor confirmed it could attend on the third day after the incident,
by which time Mr B and Miss B had the work carried out privately.
In conclusion, Astrenska stated that there was a delay in attendance due to the availability of
contractors at the relevant time of year, however, it accepted that there was a lack of
communication and misinformation with the customer to advise when an engineer would be
attending, and call back were not made as promised.
The starting point for this provisional decision is the wording of the policy documentation. I
note that it says that the aims of the insurance are as follows What we undertake to do is
provide rapid, expert help if you suffer an emergency in your home arising from an incident
covered under the policy. We will arrange for one of our approved contractors on our nationwide list of authorised tradesmen to attend and take action to stabilise the situation
and remove the emergency. Under the heading How we settle a claim, it states that it will
arrange for an approved contractor to assess the situation and carry out emergency repairs.
It also made it clear that whilst it would make every effort to make sure that it supplied the
full range of services in all emergencies covered by this policy, unforeseeable adverse local
conditions may prevent us from providing the normal standard of service. Under the heading
Promise of Service, it said; We aim to provide a first class service at all times. In the
Schedule to the policy, it then referred to a 24-hours a day, 365 days a year emergency
helpline even on Christmas day, as well as Access to skilled contractors.
I appreciate that Astrenska made efforts to source contractors on a Sunday before
Christmas and on subsequent days, and that this proved to be extremely difficult. I cant 
therefore say that it acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in all respects. I also note
that Astrenska gave no promises as to how quickly it will be able to react to an emergency
and that its policy referred specifically to unforeseeable adverse local conditions.
Nevertheless, the policy does provide assurances that the policyholder will receive first-class
support from Astrenska, whatever the time of the year. This will have raised Mr B and Miss
Bs expectations, possibly of a same day service, due to its access to a network of skilled
contractors. I can understand Mr B and Miss Bs frustration when this wasnt the case. In all
the circumstances, and on a provisional basis, I dont consider that three days to source an
engineer was sufficiently prompt bearing in mind the expectations created and that the
incident left tenants without central heating and hot water for three days during winter.
Significantly, and again on a provisional basis, I accept that certain assurances were given
to Mr B and Miss B by Astrenska that an emergency engineer would attend on the first day
but didnt do so. I also accept that promised call-backs didnt happen. It wasnt unreasonable
in the circumstances that Mr B and Miss B decided to source their own private engineer. In
the meantime, I recognise that Mr B and Miss B (and indeed their tenants) would have
experienced significant frustration and inconvenience. In addition, from Astrenskas case
notes there appears to have been communication issues, not only between Astrenska and
Mr B and Miss B, but also between the insurer and its contractors. One contractor appeared
not to have received an instruction and this administrative failure is likely to have further
confused and delayed matters.
Unfortunately, its inevitable that a boiler breakdown causes some frustration and
inconvenience, and emergency repairs of this nature often take some time to arrange and
resolve. In this case however, due to Astrenska having raised expectations of rapid
resolution and good communication, I can appreciate why the frustration and inconvenience
experienced by Mr B and Miss B was greater than it would otherwise have been. I also note
that Mr B and Miss B took time to make many telephone calls to chase progress, whereas
better communication from Astrenska could have avoided some of this.
In the circumstances, whilst I note that Astrenska has now offered £50 in compensation in
addition to the £30 originally offered, on balance I dont think that this adequately recognises
the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr B and Miss B and indeed their tenants. On a
provisional basis, I consider that compensation in the sum of £250 in total represents a fair
and reasonable figure for Astrenskas acknowledged failures. The services guidance makes
it clear that modest compensation at this level is fair in appropriate circumstances, to
recognise the type of administrative failures and inconvenience experienced by Mr B and
Miss B over a relatively short period, as in this case.In my provisional decision, I asked both Astrenska and Mr B and Miss B if they had any 
further comments or evidence that they would like me to consider before I made a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Astrenska responded to the provisional decision to say that it was happy to settle this 
complaint as suggested. 
Mr B and Miss B responded with further submissions as follows. They said that having re-
read the policy documents, they noted that they should have been provided with up to £250 
towards overnight accommodation, however this wasnt mentioned by Astrenska in any of its 
many phone conversations. Mr B and Miss B also said that there was considerable 
inconvenience caused to their tenant in ensuring that Astrenskas engineer had access to 
the property, particularly in view of her specialist health work. They also referred to the fact 
that she was without heating and hot water for three days during a cold spell in December. In 
the circumstances, Mr B and Miss B considered that £250 compensation for their tenant 
wasnt an unreasonable request.
Ive carefully considered these further submissions. However, Im unable to consider a new 
complaint within the scope of this decision letter. Any failure by Astrenska to highlight 
insurance provisions about alternative accommodation would need to be referred to 
Astrenska in the first instance. As to the impact of this matter upon Mr B and Miss Bs tenant, 
this service cant usually award compensation to a third party, as they wouldnt be regarded 
as an eligible complainant. Nevertheless, Mr B and Miss B are entitled to share the 
compensation awarded to themselves with their tenant if they so wished. They would also be 
entitled to approach Astrenska on an informal basis, as financial businesses are free to 
make additional awards to parties outside the scope of this service.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr B and Mr Bs complaint against Astrenska 
Insurance Limited and require it to pay compensation to them of £250 for the frustration
and inconvenience caused. I require Astrenska to pay this sum within 28 days of Mr B and 
Miss Bs acceptance of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman