DRN-1846883
The complaint
Mrs G complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) handling of her property insurance 
claim.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs Gs basement was flooded after heavy rainfall. She made a claim and UKI 
arranged for its loss adjuster to carry out an inspection. It also arranged for her property to 
be dried out.
UKIs loss adjuster recommended repairs take place, but Mrs G disagreed with their 
proposed repairs. She thought the concrete flooring needed to be removed and dried out, 
and the foundations checked for movement. She was also unhappy with the work carried out 
by the drying company.
UKI later asked Mrs G to arrange her own structural survey, and confirmed it would 
reimburse her for this. It also paid her total compensation of £390 to recognise the upset 
caused by the drying companys work, and because its representatives had visited her 
property unannounced. It also offered to appoint a different drying company. 
Mrs G arranged her own survey, and UKI reimbursed her for this. The surveyor thought the 
movement was historic, and didnt think that substantial movement had taken place. He 
thought that there remained a risk of further flooding. It was suggested that UKI pay a cash 
settlement, rather than carry out the repairs. 
UKI agreed to pay a cash settlement. It offered Mrs G £3,970.83 to resolve the claim. Mrs G 
was unhappy with this amount, as she had obtained quotes for the repairs that were much 
higher. 
Our investigator thought UKI had been entitled to limit the cash settlement to the amount it 
would have paid for the repairs to take place, and said the quotes obtained by Mrs G 
included work that wasnt covered by the policy. The investigator also thought the 
compensation paid to Mrs G by UKI was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers loss or damage caused by storm or flood. It also covers subsidence, but 
excludes settlement. 
The policy explains that where damage takes place, UKI will choose whether to pay to 
repair, or make a cash payment. It also says that if a cash payment is made, it wont pay 
more than the amount it would have cost UKI to repair the damage using its own suppliers. 
After Mrs G notified UKI of the flooding, its loss adjuster carried out an inspection. They 
thought rainwater had penetrated through the brickwork, and come up through the concrete 
floors, possibly because the water table had risen due to the extent of the rainfall. They said 
that once the rooms were dry, some of the floors would need to be repaired. 
UKI then arrange for a building consultant to inspect the property. They said the (flood) water 
had entered the front of the property and flowed through the left-hand side of the basement 
rooms. They thought there was some form of liquid damp proof membrane to the floor slabs 
in the basement. They also noted that the property was of an unusual design to cope with 
localised flooding, as the general living space was on the first floor, with the ground floor set 
to storage and casual use.  
Although Mrs G was concerned about the structural adequacy of her home, UKIs loss 
adjuster didnt identify any issues with this, and didnt think there were any signs of 
subsidence. However, since Mrs G remained concerned about this, UKI agreed that if Mrs G 
arranged for a structural engineer to carry out an inspection, it would reimburse her for this. I 
think that was fair. 
Mrs Gs structural engineer (Mr R) carried out an inspection. He said the precise source of 
the water ingress hadnt been identified, though he noted that a Section 19 Flood 
Investigation had been invoked by the local Flood Risk Manager. He said hed been advised 
by Mrs G that when the original flooding happened, over half of the lower ground floor was 
under water, and the source of the water ingress was the living/bedroom floor/lobby wall 
junction, eventually penetrating via the external walls after prolonged wet weather. 
Mr R concluded that the property had been affected by moderate historic differential 
settlement, mainly to the front right-hand corner, which he said was not of great concern. 
Although later photos showed that some more recent slight cracking had appeared, he didnt 
think that any substantial movement had taken place and concluded the stability of the 
property was not of any concern.
Mr R thought it appeared inconceivable that the flooding was a one-off incident. That was 
because of: - the low-lying nature of the ground; the elevated position of an inadequately 
drained nearby A-road; and because the property was in a flood zone. He reviewed the 
repairs schedule proposed by UKI, but thought the cosmetic repairs proposed would serve 
no purpose in addressing the underlying problem  which was outside Mrs Gs control. 
Mr R said that if the groundwater level and land/surface water drainage issue could be 
addressed by the local authority, then repairs could be progressed. However, he thought that 
without a scheme of major remedial works and improvements, the lower ground floor would 
remain unsuitable for habitable use. Mr R further explained that it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect UKI to fund any building improvements, for example tanking and the formation of a 
new waterproof floor slab, as this would be considered betterment. Instead, he thought UKI 
should contribute towards those costs, by agreeing a cash settlement based on the repairs it 
had proposed.  
Based on Mr Rs report, its apparent that there hasnt been subsidence at Mrs Gs property. 
Im therefore satisfied that it was appropriate for UKI to deal with the matter as a flood claim. Mrs G obtained two quotes. One of those included external prevention work to control future 
flooding, such as adding low lying pumps, sumps and a soakaway. It also included building 
improvement works, including tanking. That total quote was for £61,000. I understand the 
second quote was much higher, but Mrs G no longer has a copy of it.  
On the quote Ive seen, the contractor said the internal floor levels are lower than the 
external ground levels, when it should be the other way around. And that this allows any 
flood water to run into the property as theres nothing to obstruct it. The contractor said that 
tanking and under concrete slab membranes would help prevent future water ingress, but 
wouldnt stop it flooding into the property, and so the problem may reoccur periodically.
I recognise that Mrs G would like UKI to pay for the external prevention work, as well as the 
improvements to her property itself, to minimise the risk of flood damage in the future. 
However, those costs arent covered by the policy. 
This service does sometimes say that an insurer should carry out improvements that arent 
usually covered under the policy (such as tanking for example) where its clear that if it didnt 
do so, any repair would only be temporary. But in such cases, Id need to be satisfied that 
the room/s requiring the improvements were watertight before the initial flooding incident, but 
are no longer watertight and will remain that way unless further work, such as tanking, takes 
place.
I understand Mrs G had only recently moved into the property when the flooding happened. 
However, notably, Mr R thought it was inconceivable that the flooding was a one-off incident, 
given the various external factors. UKIs building consultant also thought the propertys 
unusual design was such so that it could cope with local flooding. And the contractor that 
provided Mrs G with a quote said that improvements to the property wouldnt stop flooding 
into the property, because the internal floor levels were lower than external floor levels. 
Taking all of this into account, I cant reasonably conclude that the property was previously 
watertight before the initial flooding incident, or that any recommended improvements made 
to the property (such as tanking or a waterproof slab membrane) would be effective in 
preventing future flooding incidents, given the various external factors over which Mrs G and 
UKI have no control.  
Consequently, and whilst I recognise Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, I dont 
require UKI to pay for the improvement works to Mrs Gs property. 
Mrs G wanted UKI to pay a cash settlement for the repairs it had proposed. UKI agreed to 
this, though it limited this settlement to the amount it would have paid its own contractor to 
do the repairs, in line with its policy terms. UKI has shown me how it has calculated this 
settlement, and Im satisfied the settlement was fair.
Mrs G also says that some of her personal belongings were damaged in the flooding 
incident. I understand UKI is dealing with this separately under the contents insurance 
aspect of her cover. If Mrs G is unhappy with UKIs claims decision in respect of this, she 
can bring a new complaint to this service. 
After bringing her complaint to this service, Mrs G advised us that she had experienced 
further flooding. Its not clear if there was any damage to her property as a result of those 
floods, but if there was, then Mrs G should tell UKI about the incidents so it can investigate 
this further. Mrs G did tell UKI of one incident where thered been water ingress due to an issue with the 
local pumping station. UKI advised her that this would need to be a new claim, though its 
understood Mrs G didnt proceed with this. If this incident caused damage to Mrs Gs home 
and she wishes UKI to consider the matter, she should also contact UKI directly about this. 
Mrs G also advised this service that her boiler was damaged in the initial flooding event. 
However, again, UKI says it hasnt been notified of this. I see our investigator checked with 
UKI and it confirmed that Mrs G has home emergency cover under her policy. UKI says that 
Mrs G could either make a claim under her home emergency cover, or alternatively, she 
could provide her own engineers report which confirms the boiler has been damaged and 
the cause of that, and it would then consider the matter further. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the flooding incident happened, and that Mrs 
G didnt advise UKI that her boiler at been damaged at the time, I think UKIs suggestions 
seem fair. 
Mrs G raised concerns with UKI about the drying company that it employed. I see that UKI 
had paid the company to sanitise Mrs Gs property, though it later transpired that this didnt 
happen. UKI confirmed it would appoint another company, which I think was reasonable. 
However, its apparent that Mrs G was caused inconvenience by the matter. 
UKI offered Mrs G total compensation of £390 for this, as well as its representatives turning 
up at her property unannounced. I think that amount of compensation was reasonable, and 
reflected the level of upset caused to Mrs G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that UKIs settlement 
offer was fair, and its compensation offer was reasonable for the errors made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman