DRN-2375332
The complaint
Mr M complains that, in 2009, Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
(PBA).
 
What happened
Mr M had had a non-PBA bank account with Bank of Scotland for many years. This meant 
Mr M didnt have to pay fees to maintain the account (although there would have been fees 
and interest on things like overdrafts).  In July 2009, the account was changed into a 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) which was a PBA. This was arranged over the 
phone. 
At the time, the URCA cost £12.50 per month. In return there were several insurance 
benefits, including worldwide family multi-trip travel insurance, RAC breakdown cover, 
mobile phone insurance, and home emergency cover. Also overdrafts up to £300 were 
interest free, and there was 1% extra interest on Instant Saver accounts, and some 
cashback on certain loans and mortgages.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr M didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was given inaccurate information when being sold the URCA. He says a 
member of staff at the bank advised him that having the URCA would give him priority 
rates for loans, should he choose to take out a loan. He also said the travel insurance and 
mobile phone insurance were worthless. He says this because, when he tried to make a 
travel insurance claim, he was turned down. And when he tried to make a mobile phone 
claim, he was told hed have to be without a phone for several weeks and the cost of 
making the claim was higher than the cost of the repair needed. 
I have a difficulty in that I cant be sure exactly what the bank told Mr M in 2009. And it 
also wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the details of a conversation 
that was about 12 years ago  so it might not be fair to rely fully on what they now 
remember. 
Of course, I cant really know what motivated Mr M to take the URCA but, in the absence 
of solid evidence, I do have to think about what is most likely to have happened. And, at 
least at the time, it looks quite likely Mr M would have been attracted to the travel 
insurance and mobile phone insurance. 
I can see from his bank statements that he travelled abroad, and hes confirmed that he 
visited the USA, which is what led to his unsuccessful claim. Hes said he had difficulty 
claiming  although I can see Bank of Scotland paid him £200 in compensation anyway 
when he complained, and I dont know what the insurer eventually said. But, even so, this 
doesnt mean that he was actually ineligible for the insurance or that other claims wouldnt 
have been covered. It looks likely he was covered generally, including for medical costs 
which is often the most valuable aspect of travel insurance potentially. 
Mr Ms said that, later on, he didnt find the travel and mobile phone insurance useful. All 
insurances have limitations and I dont see evidence that the insurances offered under the 
URCA had particularly unusual restrictions or werent of some potential benefit to him. So 
I dont think Bank of Scotland were misleading in what they offered. 
I can also see that there were in fact some benefits, if you took certain loans; these were 
in the form of a cashback. And, even if the bank wasnt as clear as it should have been on 
these points, I cant say that fuller information about the account overall is likely to have 
put Mr M off switching to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman