DRN-3675442
The complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Corville Financial Services Ltd 
(Corville) in June 2016 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP). Corville has since been 
acquired by a different regulated business. That other business has informed this service 
that, as part of the acquisition, responsibility for the advice complained about has been 
transferred to it. To make this final decision easier to follow, Ive referred to Corville 
throughout.
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which was provided to both the Representative and Corville. I dont intend to 
repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Ss former employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it 
would be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from 
the company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes 
regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent.  
As of June 2016, the details of Mr Ss safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had accrued 33 years and 7 months qualifying service between April 1978 and 
March 2011;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2011, his 
annual scheme pension was £17,774.76. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. By June 2016, the annual scheme 
pension had been revalued to £20,086.08;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £262,088.28 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He met one of Corvilles financial advisers in                          
June 2016. A fact-find and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded the 
following information about Mr S:
He was 55, divorced, in good health, unemployed and had two children who were 
financially independent; 
His assets comprised about £56,000 in cash savings which were being used to meet 
his living costs;
He didnt have any liabilities  he lived with family and didnt have any rental or 
mortgage costs; 
His monthly expenditure was £1,300  this was being met by using his cash savings;
He planned to retire at 65. His State pension age was 66 and 9 months;
His risk profile was determined to be 5 on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 was lowest risk 
and 10 highest risk. The rating of 5 was described as Low end of Moderate risk.
In June 2016, Corvilles adviser issued a suitability report to Mr S. This confirmed that he 
had the following objectives and needs regarding his safeguarded benefits:
Have as much flexibility as possible regarding the amount/timing of taking pension 
income early.
Have as much flexibility as possible regarding death benefits pre and post 75.
Leave the scheme tax free before the age of 75 to your children.
Maintain the option to use some or your entire fund to purchase an annuity in the 
future.
Ability to choose the level of pension you require at retirement. Plan to use all your 
tax allowance at that time.
Break ties with your former employer.
Corville advised Mr S to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits of £262,088.28 to a 
PPP to achieve his objectives. It was noted in the suitability report that, following the pension 
transfer, the money would initially be held in cash in the PPP. This was because another 
business (Firm M) would advise Mr S on investing the value of the PPP to align with his 
risk profile  it was noted in the suitability report Firm M had informed Corville that it initially 
intended to invest the value of Mr Ss PPP in a Cautious portfolio.
The costs associated with the advice were set out in the suitability report. These were to be 
deducted from the value of Mr Ss PPP, summarised as follows:
Initial charge
£4,500  initial adviser charge
Ongoing annual charges based on PPP fund value1.00% ongoing adviser charge
0.70% annual management charge
0.50% platform charge
This complaint
The Representative, on behalf of Mr S, contacted this service to register a complaint about 
Corville regarding the suitability of the pension transfer advice it provided to him in                     
June 2016.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that Corvilles recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mr Ss best 
interests and was therefore unsuitable. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that Corville carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the 
basis that Mr S maintained his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and would be a 20% 
income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that Corville pay Mr S £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable pension transfer advice.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr S, provided comments in response to our investigators 
assessment and recommended remedy. In summary, it stated that:
Mr S intended to retire at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65 and so his financial 
loss should be calculated to that age;
In the event redress is paid to Mr S as a lump sum the notional reduction of 15% for 
income tax  as noted in the investigators assessment  shouldnt apply to the part 
of the redress which reflects the compensation for the adviser and product charges; 
and
Corville should provide to it details of its calculations in a clear, simple format.
Corville didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided comments in response. In 
summary, it stated it had disclosed the relevant risks to Mr S and advised him against the 
pension transfer because the critical yield figure of 14.3% indicated that hed be worse off. 
But it agreed to facilitate it in order to meet his objectives for flexibility before and after 
retirement. Corville also said that it thought our investigator had used the benefit of hindsight 
in reaching his conclusion because some of the information regarding changes to the BSPS 
 including the introduction of the successor scheme, the BSPS2  wasnt known at the time 
it advised Mr S in June 2016.
Our investigator considered the additional comments received from Corville but wasnt 
persuaded to change his opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, our investigator 
stated that this complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
Corville and the Representative in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on                     
2 August 2022 regarding new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked the 
Representative to confirm with Mr S that, in the event this complaint is ultimately upheld, 
whether he preferred redress to be calculated on the current methodology or the updated 
guidance expected to be implemented in early 2023. The investigator told the 
Representative that if we didnt receive an answer, wed assume Mr S would prefer redress 
on the current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final decision, 
the Representative didnt confirm which option Mr S preferred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the Representative on behalf of Mr S and Corville. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Corville was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it advised Mr S. This meant 
that when it advised him it was required to consider the suitability rules and guidance in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs Handbook. In assessing the 
suitability of Corvilles recommendation, its necessary for me to have due regard to these 
rules and guidance.
Primarily, Corville was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally 
in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr S. The suitability 
rules and guidance that applied when Corville provided its recommendation to Mr S were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Ss case  these were contained in                    
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance,
businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DB
pension scheme is suitable and only recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests.
Mr Ss situation
I think its fair to say that when Corville advised Mr S in June 2016 there was a great deal of 
uncertainty regarding the future of the BSPS. This is because Mr Ss former employer, Tata 
Steel, had announced in March 2016 that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. At that time, the BSPS was one 
of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 125,000 members. In my 
view, considering what was known at that time, there wasnt any imminent threat of the 
BSPS entering the PPF while Tata Steel was examining the options and consulting with 
members. And so I think its strongly arguable that Corville shouldve delayed its advice to 
Mr S until more detail became available.
But for the purpose of deciding this complaint, and on the basis that Corville advised Mr S 
before the outcome of the consultation was known, Im going to proceed on the basis that Corville essentially had two options  beyond that of waiting to learn the results of the 
consultation  to consider when it advised Mr S, as follows:
1. Advise him to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS in the knowledge that 
there was a possibility they would ultimately be transferred to the PPF once the 
outcome of the consultation was known; or
2. Advise him to transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr S. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr S had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Corville.
Mr S still had the option to retain guaranteed benefits in the BSPS until the outcome of the 
consultation was known. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits, its my fair and 
reasonable opinion that Corville shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS 
was suitable for Mr S and to only recommend a pension transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate it was in his best interests.
Corvilles advice to Mr S
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr S. And that his safeguarded benefits
was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was relying on Corville to 
provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into account all the information
available to it at that time  so that he could then make an informed decision. I understand 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or DB pension scheme but, as the
professional party, Corville was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and
providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
In responding to our investigators assessment, Corville stated it had made Mr S aware of 
the risks associated with the pension transfer and advised against it in its suitability report. 
Ive read the suitability report. I can see that Corville highlighted the risks and made clear 
that, in its view, the critical yield figure of 14.3% was unlikely to be achieved meaning, from 
an economic point of view, hed be worse off and so it advised against a transfer. But it 
nevertheless advised Mr S transfer to achieve his objectives for flexibility before and after 
retirement.
Theres no evidence that the transaction was carried out on an insistent client basis  this is 
where a client wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and 
wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. In this case, despite 
documenting in its suitability report its reservations about the suitability of the pension 
transfer, Corville nevertheless advised Mr S to transfer.
In my view, disclosure of risks isnt the same as suitability. In other words, just because 
Corville told Mr S that hed likely be worse off as a result of the pension transfer doesnt 
absolve it from any responsibility for the suitability of the transaction. In my view, financial 
planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action a client 
wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable for their 
client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to facilitate the transaction.Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time Corville advised Mr S. This required it to carry out a 
transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The 
critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, 
after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension 
scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a 
lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less 
likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the 
pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
In its suitability report, Corville stated that the critical yield figure had been calculated as 
14.3%. But it provided conflicting information regarding to which age that figure had been 
calculated  in one section of the report it stated the figure of 14.3% was based on Mr S 
taking benefits at 60 but in another section, it was at age 65. So its unclear to me what the 
correct critical yield figure was based on Mr S taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement 
age of 65. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, Ive assumed it was to age 65 given 
that it was recorded that he intended to retire at that age.
Corvilles advice to Mr S was provided before the FCA published instructions
in Finalised Guidance FG17/9 regarding how businesses could calculate future 'discount
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being
upheld. Before October 2017, similar rates were published by this service on our website.
While businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension
transfers, I consider that they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Ss case. The closest
discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by this service for the
period before 1 October 2017 and was 4.1% based on Mr S taking benefits at 65, in line with
his recorded intention of retiring at that age. But even if Corville rejects that measure as a 
reasonable comparator, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year 
for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate.
In my view, the discount rate and FCA projection rates clearly show that the financial viability 
of the pension transfer was questionable and wouldve required Mr S to accept a very high-
risk investment approach to provide the potential for the sort of investment returns required 
over the investment timeframe to age 65 to match the benefits provided by the BSPS, let 
alone exceed it. But the evidence shows that investing on a very high-risk basis wouldnt 
have been suitable for Mr S.
I note that he was recorded as having a Low end of Moderate risk profile and that the value 
of his PPP was to be invested in a Cautious portfolio. The evidence indicates that he had 
very limited investment knowledge and experience before this pension transfer. Theres no 
evidence that he had experience of investing significant sums of money. Given the critical 
yield applicable in this case, I think it was clear that Mr S would be financially worse off as a 
result of the pension transfer if he invested in line with his risk profile. Corville accepted as 
much in its suitability report.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.Flexibility of pension benefits
Corville recorded that Mr S wanted the ability to draw benefits flexibly before and after 
retirement. This was the key driver for the pension transfer.
Mr S had accrued 33 years and 7 months qualifying service in the BSPS. So I think its fair 
to say that when the time came to retire that hed be heavily reliant on the value of these 
benefits to fund any capital or income needs in retirement, particularly since he wasnt 
building up any additional provision elsewhere due to his unemployed status at that time.
I think its clear that Mr S was attracted to a flexible arrangement. However, he was 55 at the 
time and so about 10 years away from when he said he intended to retire at age 65. While I 
dont doubt Mr S wouldve liked the flexibility to draw any level of benefit he wanted, plans 
can change over such a long period of time. Mr Ss immediate income needs were being met 
by his cash savings, so I dont think there was any need to transfer his preserved benefits at 
that time, especially given the high critical yield attached to the transaction. In any event, Im 
not convinced Mr S required flexibility. I think its unlikely that he wouldve required the ability 
to draw varying levels of income and capital lump sums. The evidence indicates that when 
he retired that hed likely require a steady, secure income stream for the rest of his life given 
his wider personal and financial situation.
The transaction resulted in all the investment, inflation and longevity risk being transferred 
from the BSPS to Mr S but he didnt envisage retiring until 65. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why flexibility wouldve been a sufficiently compelling 
reason for Mr S to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time. 
In conclusion, while I understand Mr Ss reasons and motivations for flexible benefits, I dont 
think Corville clearly demonstrated why it was in his best interests to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve future flexibility. I simply dont agree the 
perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits 
offered by the BSPS. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred
under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the
transfer to the PPP, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact Mr S didnt envisage retiring until 65 and so it was likely 
that the fund wouldnt be materially depleted in the foreseeable future.
Mr S was aged 55 and recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy 
into his late 70s or early 80s. It doesnt seem that there were any immediate concerns 
regarding his health such that there was a compelling reason to change the format of the 
death benefits to that provided by the BSPS. 
The value of Mr Ss safeguarded benefits represented the backbone of his retirement 
provision built up by that time. He was unemployed and wasnt building up further pension 
provision elsewhere. So it seems to me that when the time came to withdraw money from the PPP to meet Mr Ss income needs, it would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected.
While I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers and that Mr S was at that time 
divorced meaning a spouses pension wasnt required, the priority here was to advise him 
about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. So I dont think death benefits paid in a different format 
justified a pension transfer at that time given that Mr S didnt have any immediate health 
concerns.
Control of pension benefits
Corville recorded that Mr S was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and
the prospect that the value of his safeguarded benefits could be transferred to the PPF. As a 
result, he wanted to break ties with his former employer transfer away from the BSPS to 
remove the risk of reduced benefits and to have control over his benefits.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr S could expect to receive around 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF which were 
different to the BSPS. This contrasted with the recommended PPP where theres no promise 
of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr S was apparently concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the
PPF which would result in him losing around 10% of his scheme pension, then I question 
why he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP to obtain control but in doing so 
expose the backbone of his retirement provision to unlimited downside risk where the loss 
could be significantly greater than 10%. That simply doesnt make sense to me and suggests 
that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks and 
benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Corville to provide 
expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. Its therefore my view that Corville 
failed to adequately allay Mr Ss misapprehensions and that he therefore made the decision 
to transfer from an uninformed position.
If properly informed, would Mr S have transferred anyway?
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded a pension transfer was in Mr Ss
best interests and that Corvilles recommendation could therefore be regarded as suitable
in the circumstances. So I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Corvilles advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr S, if placed
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many
factors which Mr S, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view that he was
heavily reliant on Corville, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those
factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Given Mr Ss reliance on Corville 
to provide expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred against its 
advice had it advised him to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and declined to 
facilitate the pension transfer.
Im satisfied that my findings are based on information that was available to Corville at the 
time it advised Mr S in June 2016.Putting things right
Its my opinion that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Corville to put Mr S, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable pension transfer advice 
he was given. 
My view is aligned with that of our investigator in that Corville shouldve advised Mr S to 
retain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. When the advice was given in June 2016, there 
was insufficient information available about the successor scheme, the BSPS2, to enable 
Corville to carry out a proper analysis of that option. However, its my view that had Mr S 
been given suitable advice in June 2016 to maintain his benefits in the BSPS, he wouldve 
been contacted in October 2017 as part of the BSPSs Time to Choose communication 
exercise and presented with the opportunity to transfer to either the PPF or BSPS2.
Therefore, in the interests of completeness, Ive considered whether the loss assessment
should be carried out on the basis that Mr S transferred to the PPF or BSPS2. I think that 
had he been given the choice of either the PPF or BSPS2 and placed into an informed 
position regarding the features, risks and benefits of both options, Mr S wouldve likely opted 
for the BSPS2. Ill explain why.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Mr S was unmarried at the time. But I think its likely that, properly advised, he wouldve 
envisaged accessing his safeguarded benefits at 65 in line with his recorded intention. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that he intended to take his benefits earlier than 65. This 
means no early retirement reduction would apply. As a result, the benefits payable at 65 
were likely to be higher under the BSPS2 than the PPF. And so its the benefits offered by 
the BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes.
The calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the
basis Mr S takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come intoforce after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked the Representative to confirm with Mr S whether he preferred any 
redress to be calculated now in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance 
and rules to be published. He didnt make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed 
in this case he doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in 
line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for 
Mr S.
Corville must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at
the date of this decision. In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification
of Mr Ss acceptance of this final decision.
Corville may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ss PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should
be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Ive thought about the Representatives point regarding the 15% deduction from any redress 
payable. It believes this is unfair as it doesnt account for the adviser and product charges 
that wouldve been deducted from the fund value over that time. While I understand the 
Representative considers this may unfairly reduce the redress payable, Im mindful that it 
isnt possible to provide exact compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to 
achieve this would be to put Mr S back into the DB pension scheme as if the transfer out 
hadnt happened. So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress proposed here fairly 
compensates Mr S for the impact of the unsuitable pension transfer advice he received.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Corville to carry out a calculation in line with the
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Corville should pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter
has caused him.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date
Corville receives notification of her acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Corville to pay Mr S.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Corville Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would 
additionally require Corville Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would 
only require Corville Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Corville Financial Services Ltd pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S. If Mr S accepts this 
final decision, the money award becomes binding on Corville Financial Services Ltd. My 
recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Corville Financial Services Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr Ss 
Representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman