DRN-1455601
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy bought during a telephone call in 2005 in connection with a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr D complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mr D added that if the costs and benefits had been clearer, he wouldnt have bought the PPI; 
he said there was no opportunity to ask questions or to hear a detailed account of the 
product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result for him. So Ill set out my reasons below.
Mr D says he didnt know PPI was optional and wasnt aware that PPI had been added to his 
credit card account. But I could see that he first applied for the credit card on 13 May 2005. 
Mr D didnt buy the PPI until 26 May during a telephone call he made to Capital One to 
activate the credit card. So I think he probably did realise the policy was optional because he 
was able to get the credit card before he bought the PPI.  
Capital One produced a telephone call script which it says was used around the time of the 
sale. The script instructs its representative to tell the customer that the PPI is optional and to 
obtain the customers consent to add it to the account. I dont know if the script wouldve 
been followed exactly, but its more likely that the Capital One representative would have 
mainly stuck to it. So based on the evidence of the choices available to Mr D, I think Capital 
One made it clear to him that the policy was optional and that he had a chance to refuse his 
consent to the sale.
Capital One says the sale was non-advised. And Mr D says he remembers it was an advised 
sale. But the call script specifically tells the caller not to give any advice. And having decided 
its more likely the script was mainly followed, Ive decided that its more likely the sale was 
non-advised. 
So for non-advised sales, Capital One didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for 
Mr D  he would have had to do that for himself - but it did have to make sure he received 
enough clear information to make an informed choice. Unfortunately, theres no recording of the call, so I will look at the documents and the facts the parties have given to us about the 
sale.
To help me decide whether Mr D had enough clear information, I have looked at his financial 
circumstances to see if he would have thought the PPI was of any financial value to him and 
its affordability. So I looked at the cost of the policy compared to the benefits he would 
receive in return. 
Capital One tells us the cost was 79p per £100 for life cover and for 10% of the outstanding 
balance to be paid each month up to a maximum of 12 months for life, accident, sickness or 
unemployment cover - I dont know exactly how these details were explained to Mr D during 
the telephone call. As its possible he may not have got clear information, I looked at what he 
told us about his finances at the time of the sale.
Mr D told us hed get statutory sick pay from his employer. I think its possible he still could 
have received a useful benefit from the PPI for possibly longer than and on top of his 
employee benefits  particularly as he also told us he had no other sources of income at that 
time. So as I think Mr D chose to take out the cover, I think the PPI was likely to be of some 
value to him and that the policy was affordable. I dont think he would have been put off from 
buying the policy even if the cost and benefits hadnt been fully detailed.
I also looked at whether the main things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions) had been 
explained to Mr D. I dont know how or if he was told about them during the telephone call, 
but I dont think it would have mattered to him. His circumstances were that he was eligible 
for PPI cover, he was in employment and had no medical conditions at the time of the sale. 
So, I think its unlikely he wouldve been affected by the main exclusions. So again, I dont 
think he wouldve been put off from buying the policy even if the main exclusions had been 
listed in full because they were not likely to have any impact on him.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was optional and I dont think that any more 
detailed information wouldve put Mr D off from buying the PPI. So Im not going to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman