DRN-2057607
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1999. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr W disagreed with 
that view. They said Halifax told them they had to have the PPI. They stated that was 
because Mrs W was a student at the time and that she wouldnt have been able to cover the 
repayments if Mr W was out of work. They also said Mr W had good benefits from work and 
so they didnt need the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr W, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what was 
said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mrs and Mr W remember about it. And Ive also considered the paperwork thats 
available from the time. 
I can see from the complaint that Mrs and Mr W said Halifax misled them into thinking the 
PPI was compulsory. I dont doubt that what Mrs and Mr W told us is what they honestly 
remember about the sale. But I also have to bear in mind that its difficult to remember 
precisely what happened over 20 years ago, which is when this policy was sold. 
I think the main thrust of what Mrs and Mr W recall is that the adviser said that they may run 
into difficulties paying their mortgage if Mr W was out of work because Mrs W was a student. 
I dont think thats an unreasonable thing for Halifax to point out. I can also see from the 
available paperwork that Mrs and Mr W refused other products that could have helped them 
protect their mortgage and also other insurance policies. Putting that together, I think its 
most likely Halifax strongly suggested the PPI was wise for their circumstances. But from the 
evidence before me, I cant conclude they were misled in the way they remember. I think its 
most likely they knew they could refuse this cover if they wanted to. 
This was an advised sale, so Halifax had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs and 
Mr Ws needs. So to help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive compared that with what Mrs and Mr W told us about their 
personal circumstances at the time. 
The cover was set up to cover Mr W only. So if he became unwell or if he was made 
redundant, the mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months. I 
appreciate Mr W had some sick pay and both Mrs and Mr W had some savings. But I think 
the policy offered benefits over and above the means they already had in place. I must 
stress that this mortgage was secured on their home and they could have lost their house if 
theyd fallen behind with repayments.  
I can see from the documents completed at the time that Mr W appears to have been in 
good health. So I dont think hed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about 
medical conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual about his employment 
circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he 
needed to.  Putting all of these things together, I think the recommendation Halifax made 
probably was suitable. 
Halifax also had to give Mrs and Mr W enough information about the cover so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible Halifax 
didnt tell Mrs and Mr W everything they should have done. But Ive set out how PPI could 
have been helpful if Mr W was out of work. With that in mind, I dont think theyd have acted 
differently even if Halifax had given them more or better information. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr W, but for the reasons above, I havent 
upheld this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman