DRN-3260448
The complaint
M has complained about what theyve been charged after they cancelled their commercial 
motor insurance policy, which was arranged by Well Dunn Limited trading as Well Dunn 
Insurance Revolution Services.
Mr M has been acting for M on this complaint. But, for ease, Ive only referred to M in this 
decision.
What happened
M took out an annual policy through Well Dunn, which started on 30 September 2020. The 
total cost of the policy was £5011.35. Well Dunn arranged a loan for M to pay the premium. 
This made the total cost, including interest on the loan, £5,874.62. As M missed a monthly 
direct debit payment on the loan, Well Dunn issued a letter giving them seven days-notice 
that the policy would be cancelled on 1 February 2021. The policy was due to be cancelled 
on 8 February. But, this hadnt happened on 9 February when M called Well Dunn and 
advised them they wanted to cancel the policy. So, Well Dunn cancelled the policy on this 
date and  by their calculations  there was an outstanding balance due from M of £983.73. 
The initial cancellation letter issued stated slightly different figures and a different amount 
due, but this was later corrected and M was told the correct amount. 
M wasnt happy with the amount left to pay and expressed their dissatisfaction to Well Dunn, 
who agreed to reduce the amount due by £733.73 to £250. However, M still didnt think this 
was fair and refused to pay it. 
M complained to us and their complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He said 
that what Well Dunn had charged was fair. M doesnt agree and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that the amount Well Dunn wants to charge M, ie £250 is fair. 
This is because Ive seen the calculations for the amount outstanding provided by Well Dunn 
and Im satisfied they are correct. When the policy was set up Well Dunn charged a £950 
broker fee, which was clearly stated in their terms and conditions. These also said this 
wouldnt be refunded if the policy was cancelled. And its this that is the main reason M owed 
so much when they cancelled the policy. The insurer charged a proportionate amount for the 
time M was on cover with them, plus a policy fee of £85 and a cancellation fee of £100. But 
Well Dunn have no control over these fees. These also had an impact on the amount that 
was due. So, bearing in mind Well Dunns terms and conditions say M has to pay the full 
£950 broker fee and theyve reduced this dramatically and only want to charge M £250, I 
think theyve acted very reasonably. So, I see no reason to interfere with what they want to 
charge M. And this means its not appropriate for me to uphold Ms complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms complaint about Well Dunn 
Limited trading as Well Dunn Insurance Revolution Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman