DRN-2671616
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy TSB Bank plc wasted his time during the application process of opening a
new personal current account as they refused his proof of address documents on two
separate occasions.
What happened
Mr L applied for a TSB current account online, following which he went to a TSB branch on 6
April 2020 to provide documentation to confirm his identity and verify his address. The
branch accepted Mr Ls passport as proof of his identification, but Mr Ls proof of address
document was not acceptable as it was a utilitys arrears letter and not a utility bill.
TSBs notes show Mr L spoke with the TSB branch manager. He was given a leaflet setting
out the acceptable identification and verification documents and was told to print his online
bill which would also confirm his usage.
The leaflet, setting out TSBs list of acceptable documents included, Utility bill within the last
3 months (we do not accept water, mobile phone, broadband bills, reminders and arrears
letters and final closing bills).
TSBs notes show that around 12-14 April 2020 Mr L let TSB know he was unable to print off
his utility bill and asked for help.
On 14 April 2020 TSB wrote to Mr L in reply to his first complaint that his initial proof of
address document had not been accepted.
Mr L returned to the branch on 15 April 2020 with a utility bill dated 11 March 2020. This
showed one day of usage from 10 January 2020 until 11 January 2020. TSB didnt accept
this as proof of Mr Ls address.
TSBs records also show that Mr L had managed to create three different account profiles
while attempting to open his current account as he was not completing the full application
online. TSB highlighted to Mr L in their letter to him dated 14 April 2020 that he needed to
complete the full application online.
Our investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. They said the utility bill Mr L
provided on 15 April 2020 met the description of acceptable identity documents listed by
TSB. The investigator also couldnt see that anything specific had been mentioned to Mr L
about the amount of usage the utility bill needed to show. And because Mr L was without any
other banking facility they felt it would be fair that TSB pay Mr L £100 to recognise the
trouble caused to him.
TSB didnt agree. They said TSB had done enough to ensure Mr L provided them with the
correct documentation and explained that it was ultimately their decision whether the
document Mr L had provided was acceptable on that occasion.
I issued my provisional findings to both parties to explain that my conclusions differed to 
those reached by the investigator. A copy of my provisional findings is copied below. 
Provisional Findings
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached the same conclusions as our investigator and I will explain
why.
Its important to recognise here the regulatory obligations upon TSB to ensure they are
satisfying themselves of their customers identity before entering into a contract with them.
So checking who their potential customer is, would be something I would expect TSB to do.
How TSB chooses to do this is up to them. And as already mentioned above, TSB have set
out a list of acceptable documents that would help them satisfy their obligations.
The initial document Mr L brought to the TSB branch on 6 April 2020 was clearly not
acceptable to TSB. Its difficult for me to say TSB did anything wrong in not accepting this
document as part of Mr Ls application. It is clearly not an acceptable document on their list.
Having also checked online, it says that an acceptable document would be a utility bill 
which this was not.
Ive next considered what Mr L was told at the branch during this first visit. As mentioned
already, the notes say the branch manager gave Mr L a leaflet setting out the list of
acceptable identification and address verification documents and told Mr L to print his online
bill which would show his usage. There is nothing to suggest Mr L was told a particular
period of time the usage should cover on the utility bill.
It appears TSBs records from around 12-14 April 2020 show Mr L told them that without a
printer he was finding it difficult to print off his latest utility bill. The response letter dated 14
April 2020 to Mr L, in reply to his complaint, makes no mention of Mr Ls challenge to access
a printer or offer any other suggestions to resolve the issue.
At this point I think it worth noting that it appears Mr Ls account was eventually opened
using electronic verification. I think it would have been good practice, given Mr L was
engaging and letting TSB know his challenges in providing the required document, to have
explored alternative ways of TSB being able to verify Mr Ls address. So I do think TSB
could have done more at this point to help Mr L with his application.
Ive noted what our investigator has said about the utility bill meeting the strict definition set
out in the leaflet. I agree that it does, given there is no mention of the amount of usage an
acceptable utility bill should show. However, a utility bill showing only one day of usage is
unusual, so I think it was reasonable for TSB to query this with Mr L. It seems Mr Ls only
response was to say that the utility bill met the definition in the leaflet.
It is up to TSB to decide who they enter into business with (in the same way that Mr L chose
to apply for an account with TSB) and that they satisfy their regulatory obligations. And
based on what happened here, I cant say it was unreasonable of TSB to query the
document with Mr L and, given his response, request further documentation from him in the
circumstances.
Ive considered the impact this matter has had on Mr L.
Mr L told us he is seeking compensation for the anxiety and inconvenience the mattercaused him as it wasted his time queuing in the branch again. I also note our investigator
confirmed with Mr L this application was for Mr Ls first UK bank account and that he had no
other accounts.
Looking at whats happened its difficult for me to hold TSB responsible for any
inconvenience to Mr L when he first came to the branch with his identification and verification
documents on 6 April 2020. The list of acceptable documents was online, and its difficult to
say Mr L would not have had access to this list given he was applying for the account online.
After all, he had approached the branch to provide identification and address verification
documents as part of the application process. And it seems clear to me the letter Mr L first
brought to the branch would not be acceptable.
Ive also noted that it doesnt appear Mr L raised any concerns about being able to access a
printer with the branch at this time. So Ive no reason to think Mr L potentially highlighted to
TSB any issues with obtaining the required document.
Mr L raised his concerns about being able to print the necessary document around 12-14
April 2020. Even though Mr L later went on to be able to produce a document, at this point I
think TSB could have done more to help Mr L.
The account was eventually opened 29 April 2020  although Im mindful not much detail
has been provided by either party about how the matter went on to be resolved.
In view of the above, I therefore think it fair to say there was a delay in opening Mr Ls
account between 12 April 2020 and 29 April 2020. Im sure not having a bank account during
this time would have been an inconvenience to Mr L. But Im also not clear on how long Mr L
had been managing his affairs without a bank account to understand the real impact of this
for him. I also cant ignore Mr L took around a week to let TSB know he couldnt print off the
required document. So its difficult to know the level of urgency on Mr Ls part. And Mr L has
maintained that the real impact for him was having to queue again in the branch.
Overall, I think £50 is fair to reflect the inconvenience caused in the circumstances of this
case for the reasons Ive given above.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisional findings.
 
TSB also replied to my provisional decision. TSB confirmed they had nothing further for me 
to consider and would await my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything new to consider, I see no reason to alter my 
conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.
 
That is, I think TSB took reasonable steps to ensure they were meeting their regulatory 
obligations when Mr L applied for an account with them. But as described above in my 
provisional findings I think TSB could have stepped in sooner to help Mr L with his 
application.
Putting things rightTSB Bank plc should pay Mr L £50.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr L £50 to 
recognise they could have done more earlier on to help him with his application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman