DRN-3457840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs R booked a UK-based holiday. They were due to travel
between 17 and 24 July 2020. Alongside their accommodation booking, they took out a
travel insurance policy to cover their trip.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On
16 March 2020, the UK government asked everyone in the country to stop non-essential
contact with others and to stop all unnecessary travel. This advice was stated to be
particularly important for those with serious health conditions. On 21 March 2020, GPs were
asked to identify their most vulnerable patients. This was to enable those patients to be sent
NHS letters advising them to shield to protect against the risk of contracting Covid-19. Mr R
was sent an NHS shielding letter, which provided strict stay-at-home guidance.
Whilst this guidance was initially intended to apply for a three-month period, on 22 June
2020, Mr R was sent a further NHS shielding letter. This said that while some shielding
features were to be relaxed from 6 July 2020; all other guidance would remain in place until
August 2020.
On this basis, Mr and Mrs R cancelled their trip. They say their accommodation provider
didnt offer them a refund of their costs and refused to allow them to change their dates of
stay. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
ERGO turned down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. It said the policy didnt cover their circumstances.
And it said that the cancellation section of the policy specifically excluded claims which were
down to government regulations.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She noted that the
cancellation section of the policy covered cancellation due to a policyholders quarantine.
She considered various dictionary definitions of quarantine and she concluded Mr Rs
situation could fairly be treated as a period of enforced self-isolation. So she recommended
that ERGO should reassess Mr and Mrs Rs claim and add annual interest of 8% to the
settlement.
ERGO disagreed. It didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms. It referred to
examples of cases where it considered wed agreed on this point.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think it was fair for ERGO turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I said: 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Rs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether ERGO treated
them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with ERGO. The cancellation section provides cover for a
policyholders unused travel and accommodation expenses if they have to cancel their trip
due to one of a number of listed, specified events. One of these is:
You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being quarantined,
called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
The contract of insurance doesnt define what ERGO means by quarantine. In these
circumstances then, Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word as well as
the context in which the word quarantine is used within the policy wording. Ive also had
regard to the following dictionary definitions of quarantine:
a period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of
disease.
a general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or travel
freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease.
a state of enforced isolation.
Ive looked closely at the shielding letter which was sent to Mr R on 22 June 2020. This
outlined that there were some planned changes to shielding advice which would take effect
on 6 July 2020. These included clinically extremely vulnerable people being able to meet up
to six people outside; an end to social distancing within their own households and being able
to form a support bubble. But the letter stated that all the other current shielding advice
(would) remain unchanged. The letter also stated that further changes to the advice would
take place on 6 August 2020, when people would be able to go outside for shopping or for
exercise etc. Although the letter stated that even after this date, guidance would still be to
stay at home as much as possible. Its clear though that at the point Mr and Mrs R cancelled
their trip, on 1 July 2020, medical advice was to stay at home and only leave home for a very
limited number of reasons. I think that this can fairly be treated as a period of enforced
isolation. And I think the shielding letter, which was specifically addressed to Mr R, is
evidence that he was in such isolation.
In my view, the common meaning and understanding of quarantine is wide enough to
include Mr Rs enforced isolation to avoid the risk of contracting Covid-19. And I think a
reasonable person would therefore consider that Mr R was in quarantine and that that was
the reason he had to cancel his trip.
As I think Mr R was effectively in quarantine, I think his claim falls within the scope of policy
cancellation cover. I appreciate ERGO considers that the shielding advice is tantamount to a
government regulation. I disagree. The shielding letter clearly states that:
the governments guidance to those most at risk of severe illness if they catch Covid-19 has
always been advisory. (Emphasis added).
Government regulations are passed in Parliament; have legal effect and can be enforced.
Advisory guidance is purely advisory and theres no obligation to follow it nor are there any
potential legal consequences if a person chooses not to do so. So I dont think this exclusion
would apply to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs claim.Id add too that I think theres another reason why its fair and reasonable for ERGO to
reassess Mr and Mrs Rs claim. Thats because page 1 of the policy sets out a list of health
conditions, which a policyholder must be able to comply with in order to have full medical
cover. This section asks whether a policyholder is travelling against medical advice. And to
have full medical cover, a policyholder must be able to answer no to this question.
Given Mr Rs circumstances and the NHS letter which had been sent specifically to him,
advising him to shield, I think hed have been travelling against medical advice if hed taken
the trip as planned. This means the answer to this question wouldve been yes. I think its
likely Mr and Mrs R may have understood that ERGO wouldve refused to cover them if they
had travelled and claimed. I think that leaves Mr and Mrs R in the unfair position of not being
covered if they cancelled due to Mr R having to isolate on the advice of the NHS but also not
being covered if they had travelled because of the medical advice to isolate and not travel
because of the shielding advice.
ERGO has referred to other cases where weve reached a different outcome. However, each
case is considered on its own specific facts. And in the individual circumstances of this
complaint, I currently think that the fair and reasonable outcome is for ERGO to reassess
this claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider. However, neither party responded by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither ERGO nor Mr and Mrs R provided me with any additional evidence or comments, 
I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to reassess Mr and Mrs Rs claim in line with
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman