DRN-4274528
The complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estate of Mr M by his executor, who Ill refer to as 
Mrs D. Mrs D complains about poor service and communication by Mortgage Agency 
Services Number Five Limited (MAS).
What happened
Mr M died in late 2020. There were delays obtaining the grant of probate, which was issued 
in January 2022. The mortgage was repaid in September 2022. Mrs D complains that MAS:
didnt communicate clearly or explain timelines.
didnt let her access the mortgage account until mid-2022, despite her returning forms 
and information requests promptly. 
sent a notice of possession to the security property in June 2022, without prior notice. 
She had to apply to court to allow her time to get a mortgage offer in place. 
Mrs D asks that legal costs are refunded and for compensation for the distress caused to her 
at a vulnerable time.
Our investigator said MAS had communicated with Mrs D by phone and letter and put holds 
on the account. At the end of 2021 it started to send correspondence regarding possession 
action. Our investigator said MAS told Mrs D she needed to provide the grant of probate and 
executor notification form to allow her access to the account. It received the grant of probate 
in February 2022 and the executor notification form in June 2022. Our investigator said while 
there were a few days delay in MAS actioning this, the £75 it offered was fair.
Mrs D didnt agree, saying MAS didnt communicate its timelines and processes clearly, or 
take into account that she was vulnerable or the delays caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs D provided more details about the difficulty she had dealing with MAS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This matter has been understandably difficult and stressful for Mrs D, after shed suffered a 
bereavement. I must first explain that I can only award compensation to an eligible 
complainant. Mrs D isnt the eligible complainant here. Mrs D brought the complaint to us on 
behalf of the estate of Mr M in her role as executor. That means I cant require MAS to pay 
compensation to Mrs D, or for her time, trouble and upset. I can require MAS to pay 
compensation to the estate of Mr M if I find it made an error which caused it financial loss.
I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs D contacted MAS after Mr M died in November 2020. MAS allowed a grace period of 
three months, and then agreed interest-bearing holds on recovery action between March 
2021 and the end of November 2021. This was to give Mrs D time to obtain probate and 
start the re-mortgage process. 
MAS says it needs to receive evidence of probate before it discusses an account. Before 
this, it can only discuss processes in general terms. It was unfortunate there were delays in 
the grant of probate being issued. But MAS needed evidence that Mrs D had legal authority 
to represent Mr Ms estate. I dont think I can fairly find that MAS made an error when it 
asked to see evidence of probate before allowing Mrs D access to Mr Ms account. And I 
think it did take into account the delays in obtaining probate when it offered a grace period 
and then holds on action for about 12 months.
No payments were made into the mortgage account and the arrears balance increased. 
MAS says the mortgage had a history of arrears and it already had a possession order. In 
late 2021 and early 2022 MAS sent letters to the security property asking the representative 
to contact it with proposals to repay the mortgage to avoid it instructing solicitors to take 
action for possession. By early 2022 there were arrears equivalent to 12 monthly payments. 
Grant of probate was issued in late January 2022. MAS received a copy in mid-February 
2022, with a letter from Mrs D saying she intended to re-mortgage. MAS wrote to Mrs D at 
her address in March 2022 enclosing an executor notification form and asking her to 
complete and return it so that it could discuss the account with her.
Mrs D had told MAS she intended to re-mortgage once she had the grant of probate. 
However, when MAS decided to start recovery action it hadnt been given a clear timescale 
or strategy for the mortgage to be redeemed. MAS didnt instruct solicitors until mid-March 
2022. It noted there wasnt money in the estate to repay the mortgage, the property wasnt 
being marketed for sale and it hadnt received evidence of a re-mortgage. It wrote to the 
security property saying it was commencing litigation. It sent further letters, including a letter 
with an eviction date of 21 July 2022. I do appreciate this was a difficult time for Mrs D. But, 
overall, I think MAS gave Mrs D reasonable time to put in place, and provide evidence of, a 
credible proposal to repay the mortgage before it started recovery action.
Mrs D says she sent the executor notification form to MAS in March 2022. While it was 
unfortunate that MAS didnt receive it, theres nothing to suggest this was due to an error by 
MAS. When Mrs D called in early June 2022 it sent a new form to her immediately. If Mrs D 
was surprised not to have heard from MAS after sending the form in March 2022, she could 
have called MAS before June 2022  especially if this was holding up her plans to re-
mortgage the property.
MAS received the executor notification form on 10 June 2022. MAS updated the account 
with Mrs D as executor on 28 June 2022. It says it should have updated the account within 
10 working days of receiving the necessary documents, so it caused a delay of about two 
working days. I dont think this delay was significant, given the overall time scales.
Mrs D told MAS she expected a mortgage offer in early July 2022 and completion by the end 
of July 2022. Mrs D said while there were funds in the estate which could be used towards 
the arrears, the intention was to re-mortgage. MAS recorded that Mrs D said family members 
were living at the property. The tenants wrote to MAS asking for two months grace to find 
another place to live.
MAS told Mrs D it would hold recovery action if the estate paid the arrears and a mortgage 
offer was provided. MAS received a copy of a mortgage offer on 7 July 2022. Mrs D says her solicitors had 
difficulty faxing this to MAS. MAS says there were no problems receiving faxes. MASs 
process is for documents to be provided by post or fax rather than email. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for MAS to ask for this here, although I do appreciate that with an eviction date 
two weeks away it would have been stressful if there was difficulty faxing documents. 
On 8 July 2022 Mrs Ds solicitors told MAS theyd applied to court to suspend the eviction, 
with the hearing scheduled for 11 July. As it had received evidence of the mortgage offer, 
MAS didnt contest this. Mrs D says she had to get a court order to stop the eviction. In 
fairness though, MAS only received a copy of the mortgage offer the day before it received 
notice of the court hearing. And, so far as I can tell, it hadnt received a payment towards the 
arrears. I dont think MAS had a fair opportunity to cancel the eviction process after receiving 
the mortgage offer, and the conditions on which it told Mrs D it would hold action hadnt been 
met. 
There were delays in the redemption statement being issued. MAS says this is because 
Mrs Ds solicitors didnt use the correct account name in their request, and it had to check 
outstanding legal costs with its solicitors. But the re-mortgage wouldnt have completed in 
late July 2022 anyway. In August 2022 Mrs D told MAS shed recently discovered there was 
a second charge loan secured on the property and was waiting for the lender to send a 
redemption statement. The re-mortgage completed in September 2022, and the mortgage 
with MAS was repaid. 
I dont think MAS made errors that caused financial loss to the estate of Mr M, and I dont 
think it was unreasonable or unfair in the circumstances to instruct solicitors. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require MAS to refund its legal costs, compensate 
Mrs D for the legal costs she incurred or pay compensation to the estate of Mr M for financial 
loss. 
As I explained, I cant require MAS to pay compensation to Mrs D or for her upset or 
distress. MAS offered £75 to apologise for any inconvenience caused by it taking longer than 
10 days to update the mortgage account and for not calling Mrs D back with an update in 
mid-June 2022. I leave it to Mrs D to contact MAS if she wants to accept this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman