DRN-3093847
The complaint
On his behalf, Mr Os attorneys complain that Santander UK PLC has placed unreasonable 
barriers to accessing his bank account.
What happened
In 2020 Mr O appointed two attorneys to act on his behalf via a Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPA). The LPA form completed during the application process gave options for how the 
attorneys could act once it was in place. 
One option was to appoint the attorneys to act on a joint and several basis which would 
mean they could act on Mr Os behalf both together and independently. 
Another option was for the attorneys to act jointly on some decisions and severally on 
others. The LPA document explains that the donor (Mr O) wouldve needed to leave a list of 
decisions attorneys could make on their own and those that would need to be made together 
on a joint basis. 
Mr Os LPA was set up on the basis that the attorneys only option was to act on a joint basis. 
The LPA document says:
Attorneys must agree unanimously on every decision, however big or small. Remember, 
some simple decisions could be delayed because it takes time to get the attorneys together. 
If your attorneys cant agree a decision, then they can only make that decision by going to 
court. 
The LPA was registered with Santander, Mr Os bank, and the attorneys have explained that 
he now lacks the ability to carry out day to day banking activities. 
Santander has declined the attorneys request for access to the account by cheque book, 
debit card or online banking. Santander says that because the LPA was set up on a joint 
basis, it needs both attorneys to act and instruct payments to be made from the account  it 
cant act on one attorneys instructions alone. 
Mr Os attorneys complained but Santander didnt agree it had made any errors and said it 
had set up Mr Os account in line with the LPA it received. Santander said it could make 
payments if the attorneys submitted invoices but that no cards, cheque book or online 
account access would be made available. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They thought 
Santander had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly and didnt ask Santander to do anything 
else. Mr Os attorneys asked to appeal and said the way Santander was administering the 
account was causing unnecessary problems providing day to day care. As Mr Os attorneys 
asked to appeal, his compliant has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything Mr Os attorneys have sent us explaining why they need to access his 
bank account and the problems theyve faced. I understand that the limits Santander has 
placed on how Mr Os account can be accessed have made carrying out day to day banking 
on his behalf harder. And I dont doubt the arrangements have caused inconvenience to both 
the attorneys. But I have to balance that against the authority granted to act on Mr Os behalf 
as set out in the LPA. 
Ive quoted three different options that were given on the back of the LPA arranged for Mr O. 
Each option gave the attorneys different rights to act on Mr Os behalf. The option selected 
in Mr Os LPA says that the attorneys have to act jointly on every decision taken on his 
behalf in respect of his property and financial affairs. And, as the LPA document Mr Os 
attorneys sent us says, Attorneys must agree unanimously on every decision, however big 
or small. 
Santander produces guidance on Power of Attorney arrangements and specifically sets out 
limits for attorneys acting jointly. It says: 
Joint- attorneys are required to act together and not separately. As a result, they will be 
unable to have any of the services that allow sole access to the account, such as card and 
online access. Joint attorneys must transact together in branch
Santander only allows attorneys account access in line with the limits set out in the LPA. 
Santanders stance is that the LPA requires both attorneys have to act jointly when making 
decisions for Mr O (like how to use his bank account). So providing payment methods (like a 
cheque book, bank card or online banking) that only require one attorney to use isnt an 
option. 
I can see this limit makes looking after Mr Os finances harder for the attorneys, but Im 
satisfied Santander has acted reasonably in this case by limiting account access in line with 
the LPA arrangements in place. 
Mr Os attorneys have asked about the carer account and whether it could be used to help 
with day to day banking. Ive looked at the qualifying criteria for the account, but Santanders 
literature says its designed to be used where the account holder and carer can both keep 
track of the account. Santanders website confirms the Carers Card Account isnt suitable to 
be operated under an LPA arrangement. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr Os attorneys as I understand they need to act on his behalf. 
But Im satisfied Santanders decision to limit account access and services in line with the 
LPA is fair and reasonable. As a result, Im not telling Santander to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman