DRN-3764254
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the standard of service provided by AmTrust Europe Limited 
(AmTrust) after she claimed under her furniture insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W bought a five-year fabric care and protection plan underwritten by AmTrust when she 
bought her sofas. Four years later, she claimed under the policy for accidental scratches to 
the fabric of one of the sofas. AmTrust arranged for the affected parts to be recovered, but 
Mrs W didnt think the colour match was good enough. There was a delay of several months 
before AmTrust attended to recover the damaged areas.
Mrs W complained to AmTrust about the standard of repair. The fabric had gathered around 
the stitching and around the mechanism, and one area hadnt been replaced at all. AmTrust 
accepted that the work was not up to expected standard and arranged for further repairs.
Eventually, AmTrust repaired the sofa to a standard Mrs W was happy with. In light of the 
delays in managing Mrs Ws claim, AmTrust paid a total of £150 compensation. However, 
Mrs W said that since the last repair, the sofa seat cushion had dipped. AmTrust reviewed 
the photos she provided but it said the policy only provided cover for the fabric. It said the 
seat dip was likely the result of wear and tear. AmTrust sent a final response explaining 
there was nothing more it needed to do about Mrs Ws claim, so she brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she agreed that AmTrust hadnt handled 
the claim as well as it couldve done, and Mrs W had experienced avoidable delays, our 
investigator thought AmTrust had paid a fair amount in compensation. She also thought 
AmTrust had declined to cover the dipped seat fairly and in line with the fabric care policy.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the only part of the sofa that was dipping was the part 
recovered by AmTrusts engineers. Therefore, it followed that the damage was due to 
something the engineer did. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Delays
The repairs to Mrs Ws sofa were completed a year after she raised her claim. AmTrust 
agreed that thered been avoidable delays and paid a total of £150 compensation.
Ive looked at why the delays happened. I see Mrs W rejected the first attempt to repair 
because she didnt think the fabric was a reasonable colour match. AmTrust thought the 
fabric was within reasonable tolerance. When AmTrust attempted further repairs a piece of 
fabric was missing, and then the fabric wasn't fitted properly. On the final appointment to 
recover the sofa, Mrs W confirmed she was happy with the standard of repair.
So, theres no dispute that there were delays in repairing Mrs Ws sofa. But theres no 
evidence that the delays caused Mrs W any financial loss, or that she was prevented from 
using the sofa while waiting for repairs. Therefore, having considered the compensation 
already paid, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable sum. I wont be asking AmTrust to pay 
any more.
Repairs
Theres no dispute that, to begin with, AmTrusts engineer didnt repair the sofa to a 
reasonable standard. In these circumstances Id expect it to make good the repair, which it 
did. Mrs W confirmed she was satisfied with the repair, so theres nothing further Id expect 
of AmTrust. By recovering the sofa to an acceptable standard, it has put Mrs W back in the 
position she was in before the damage occurred.
Dipping seat
Mrs W complained to AmTrust that the seat it recovered now dips. She said its engineer 
mustve been responsible for the damage because none of the other seats dip. AmTrust 
explained to Mrs W that recovering the seat wouldnt have caused any damage to the 
internal mechanism, and the policy doesnt provide cover for any damage to the structure of 
the sofa.
Having considered the evidence, I havent seen anything to persuade me that AmTrust is 
responsible for the seat dipping. Mrs W confirmed shes been using the sofa for five years, 
so its reasonable to expect some wear in that time. I can understand that she would 
attribute the seat damage to AmTrust given her experience, but the evidence doesnt show 
that replacing the fabric wouldve caused the seat to dip. The photos provided dont show a 
marked difference from the photos of the sofa before it was recovered. However, I accept 
that the photos may not fully reflect the condition of the sofa.
Nevertheless, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the seat damage is due to 
wear and tear, and I cant reasonably hold AmTrust responsible for it without clear evidence 
of fault.
Overall, I agree that AmTrust didnt handle Mrs Ws claim as well as she mightve expected it 
to. However, Im satisfied that it put matters right by correcting the faulty repair and paying £150 compensation. I see no reason to ask AmTrust to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman