DRN-3981218
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lendable Ltd is holding her liable for a loan which she says she did not 
consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mrs D disputes three loans which were taken out in her name in May 2022.  This complaint 
is about one of these loans: a Lendable loan in the sum of £14,000.  Mrs D says that a third 
party took out this loan without her consent and then coerced her into transferring the loan 
funds to them.
Mrs D raised this matter with Lendable asking it not to hold her liable for the loan.  As 
Lendable declined to do this, Mrs D raised a complaint which she referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and partially upheld it.  He was satisfied 
that Mrs D did not take out the loan but had use of the principal sum.  So, he directed that 
Mrs D should not be held liable under the terms of the loan; all interest and charges should 
be removed; and Mrs Ds credit file amended accordingly.  However, the investigator also 
directed that it would be fair for Lendable to pursue Mrs D for the principal sum of the loan.
As neither Mrs D nor Lendable accepted the investigators findings, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
On 16 February 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  
For completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not agree with the investigators findings.  In my judgment, this 
complaint should not be upheld in part or in full for the reasons I set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The first issue I need to decide in this case is whether Mrs D consented to the £14,000 
Lendable loan being taken out in her name. 
In Mrs Ds submissions to Lendable, she says, amongst other things, 21st May I contacted 
[the third party] via [a social media platform] to arrange a loan of 3k as he was advertising on 
his story if you have a clearscore over 400 then he can get loans which are scrapped off the 
credit file.  I sent my clear score log ins.  Over the next few days he had taken 3 loans 
through you, [and two other loan providers] totaling 38 thousand pound. I was in very bad 
panic and asked him to cancel these  .
Based on the above, according to Mrs D, she provided the third party with consent to take 
out a loan in her name for £3,000.  However, she did not consent to three loans for the 
amounts she has described, which includes the Lendable loan for £14,000.
Lendable says that part of its loan application process involves a verification email being 
sent to the applicant.  This means, the applicant would need to click the link within the email 
to verify their address and complete the loan application process.  Lendable says if this step 
is not completed, the loan funds will not be credited to the applicants account.  
Lendable has provided evidence to show that a verification email was sent to Mrs Ds email 
address on 21 May 2022; and that the verification link within the email was clicked on the 
same day.
Mrs D says she did not approve the loan.  She argues that the third party had access to her 
email and approved the loan.  Having considered this carefully, I am persuaded, on balance, 
that Mrs D received a verification email from Lendable and clicked the corresponding link to 
verify her email address.  And by doing so: Mrs D effectively consented and approved the 
£14,000 Lendable loan.  I will set out my reasons for reaching this conclusion below.
Our investigator asked Mrs D to expand on how she says the third party accessed her email 
to approve the loan.  In Mrs Ds response, she suggests the third party gained access to her 
email after the loan was approved and the funds of which were credited to her account on 
23 May 2022.  This would mean the third party could not have approved the Lendable loan 
(by way of verification) on 21 May 2022, as they did not have access to Mrs Ds email at that 
time.  Further, if the third party did have access to Mrs Ds email to be able to approve the 
loan on 21 May 2022  I find it difficult to see why they would then demand access to her 
email again after the funds had been credited.  I have also considered the fact that I can see 
evidence which shows Lendable sent Mrs D emails on 21 May 2022 setting out that the loan 
was for £14,000.
For the above reasons, I am persuaded Mrs D consented to the Lendable loan by way of 
verifying her email address and thereby completing the application process.
Mrs D has also expressed concerns about her eligibility for the loan.  Having thought about 
this, even if I held that Lendable should not have lent to Mrs D  it does not follow that the 
loan should be written off.  I say this because regardless of whether Lendable should have 
lent to Mrs D, this does not negate the fact that she approved the loan and transferred out 
the funds from her bank account.
I acknowledge the police involvement in this matter.  However, whilst Mrs D may have been 
a victim of a scam  this does not take away the fact that she approved the loan (see above) 
and therefore should be held liable under the associated credit agreement.
I do have empathy for Mrs Ds personal circumstances which she has described.  However, 
taking all the above factors together  I am persuaded, on balance, that Mrs D consented to 
the Lendable loan being taken out in her name.  It follows that Lendable can hold her liable 
for it.
Responses to my provisional decisionLendable responded stating it accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to 
add.  However, Mrs D did not accept them for the following reasons (in summary):
She was coerced/deceived into approving the Lendable loan.
Lendable should not have lent to her as the loan was unaffordable.
The lenders of the other two loans in dispute have or are considering writing off the 
loans.  Further, the police investigation in this matter held that the loan funds were 
taken from her under threats of violence.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mrs Ds response to my provisional findings, my position remains the 
same.  I will explain why below.
Verification of Mrs Ds email address to approve the loan
When our investigator initially asked Mrs D how the third party accessed her emails to 
authorise the loan, she responded stating, amongst other things: This was from him entering 
my house with another person who has been arrested due to the scam and threatening me 
as I have previously explained.  [The third party] came to my home on two occasions he took 
my phone to transfer the money and accessed my emails as I had to give him [my] password 
due to threats he made to me and my home and child.
In response to my provisional findings, Mrs D has said, amongst other things: I DID NOT 
say that the third party had accessed my email after the loan funds were agreed at all.  [The 
third party]  had access to my emails since 21st May as he told me I had to give him the 
password.
The chat log between the third party and Mrs D suggests that the first time the third party 
went to Mrs Ds house was on 23 May 2022 (after the loan had been approved).  Therefore, 
Mrs Ds first proposition that the third party approved the loan by accessing her emails when 
he attended her house: cannot be right, as the loan was approved on 21 May 2022, but the 
third party, as has been suggested, first accessed Mrs Ds emails on 23 May 2022 when 
they attended her house.
Turning to Mrs Ds second proposition, that the third party had access to her emails since 21 
May 2022.  In addition to this being a change in testimony, the chat log between the third 
party and Mrs D suggests that she only provided the third party with her ClearScore login 
details.  I havent seen anything in the chat log which suggests she provided the third party 
with her email login details to be able to verify her email address with Lendable on 21 May 
2022.
Therefore, taking into account the evidence before me and the inconsistencies in Mrs Ds 
testimony  I can only conclude, on balance, that Mrs D effectively consented to the loan by 
way of clicking the verification link Lendable sent her to verify her email address; and thus 
completed the loan application process.
Loan affordability
I have seen evidence from Lendable that Mrs Ds identity was checked, her bank account 
details were confirmed and a credit check was completed.  Therefore, I am satisfied that sufficient checks were completed to verify Mrs Ds identity and that it was fair and 
reasonable of Lendable to deem the loan affordable  given the information they had 
received from ClearScore.
Police involvement and decisions by other lenders
As I stated in my provisional findings, I do acknowledge the police are involved in this matter.  
However, whilst Mrs D may have been a victim of a scam  this does not take away the fact 
that I am persuaded she approved the loan (see above) and therefore should be held liable 
under the associated credit agreement.  Further, the decision of other lenders has no 
bearing on the conclusions I have reached in the particular circumstances of this case.
I am sincerely sorry to hear the impact this matter has had on Mrs D.  I note she says she 
will be consulting a solicitor  which is her right.  Mrs D is entitled to reject my decision and 
pursue this matter through the courts if she wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman