DRN-3780787
The complaint
Mr B complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA Underwriting) failed to 
provide him with the use of a courtesy car after he made a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
There are several parties and representatives of AA Underwriting involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AA Underwriting.
What happened
Mr B had an accident in his car. The car was brought back to his home address by his 
roadside recovery provider. 
Mr B made a claim on his motor insurance policy with AA Underwriting on 6 February 2022.
AA Underwriting organised for its approved engineers to look at the car to determine if it 
would be repairable. Or if it was to be written off as a total loss. 
Mr B requested a courtesy car to be provided. AA Underwriting declined this and said as per 
the terms and conditions of his policy a courtesy car was only provided during repairs, and it 
was still considering if the car would be repaired or written off as a total loss.
The car was seen by AA Underwritings approved engineers and deemed a total loss on 
15 February 2022. AA Underwriting informed Mr B of its decision and made a settlement 
offer on 15 March 2022. It apologised for the delay in the settlement and paid him £50 for the 
poor service received.
As Mr B was not happy with AA Underwriting, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said although Mr B 
would never have been entitled to a courtesy car, the £50 compensation paid to him did not 
reflect the inconvenience caused by the delays. They suggested a further £200 
compensation should be offered.
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Courtesy car
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. On page 5 it says;
"Additional benefit  Courtesy car
An AAUICL Comprehensive Car Insurance policy means that following an accident. You will 
be provided with use of a standard courtesy car while Your Insured Car is undergoing repair, 
subject to the repair being carried out by Your Insurer's approved repairer.
A courtesy car is not available in respect of total loss claims or where the vehicle is stolen 
and unrecovered, or for accidents occurring outside the UK."
As Mr Bs car was classed as a total loss claim I agree that a courtesy car was not due to be 
provided in this case. Therefore I do not uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Delays
Mr B made the claim to AA Underwriting on 6 February 2022 and did not receive the 
outcome decision that the car had been classed as a total loss and given the settlement offer 
until 15 March 2022.
I have looked into what happened during this period of time.
The car was seen by AA Underwritings engineers to determine if it was repairable and they 
confirmed it was not possible. The information from the approved engineers was returned to 
AA Underwriting on 15 February 2022. 
AA Underwriting said Mr B should have received an outcome and settlement offer from its 
settlement team within a time scale of three to five working days after it had received the 
report from its engineers on 15 February 2022. But it did not confirm to him that his car was 
a total loss until 15 March 2022. 
I saw that Mr B made a number of attempts to progress his claim with  AA Underwriting via 
emails and phone calls. 
AA Underwriting said there had been a delay which it considered excessive. It said there had 
been a surge in claims. And it also acknowledged a lack of proactivity and communication 
with its supplier. This had caused the delays to informing Mr B of its decision that the car 
was a total loss and settling his claim.  
I have considered if the £50 compensation paid is fair. The decision and settlement offer 
took AA Underwriting approximately three weeks longer than it said it should take. And until 
it informed Mr B of its decision he was without a car and did not know if it would be repaired 
or not. I do not think the £50 paid is reflective of the inconvenience caused to him by the 
delay.
Therefore, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require AA Underwriting to pay a further £200 in 
compensation to him for the delays caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B a further £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Sally-Ann HardingOmbudsman