DRN-2519763
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his buildings 
insurance claim  and that a cash offer was made, but retracted days later.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M discovered a leak at his property coming from behind the dishwasher. 
He claimed on his policy in respect of damage caused to his kitchen. UKI initially said it 
would look to provide a cash settlement in respect of the damage because of the difficulty of 
arranging contractors due to Covid-19. But Mr M was then contacted by a loss adjuster 
appointed by UKI who requested that he obtain three quotes to repair the damage. After 
doing so, a cash settlement offer was made to Mr M. But UKI retracted this offer days later 
and said it had been offered in error. Instead, he was told UKIs contractor would need to 
attend to attempt a repair of the damage.
Mr M is unhappy with the way this claim has been handled and says he suffered upset and 
frustration with the way it progressed. Hes also voiced his concern at the number of different 
people who had to attend his property unnecessarily during the lockdown, which he feels 
placed him at risk, especially as some werent equipped with PPE.
UKI partially upheld the complaint. It accepted Mr M hadnt received the level of service it 
expected, and acknowledged the way it handled the claim had caused frustration and 
uncertainty to Mr M. Whilst it felt it was correct to retract the cash settlement offer which had 
been made in error, UKI offered Mr M £200 compensation to reflect its handling of the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought UKI could have handled the claim 
better and accepted the frustration it would have caused Mr M. But she said UKI had a right 
to decide how the claim was settled and thought £200 was fair compensation to reflect the 
problems Mr M had encountered.
Mr M didnt agree. He says UKI appointed loss adjusters who carried out a full investigation 
and recommended a certain course of action and, having done this, UKI should stick to what 
was agreed. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M holds a Home Insurance Plus policy with UKI which provides cover in respect of a 
number of insured causes. The policy wording explains how UKI will settle claims:
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will either:
repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
make a cash payment
[]
If we cannot repair or rebuild the damaged part, we will pay the full cost of rebuild or repair.
So in the event of a claim, I think Mr M could expect that UKI would use any of these options 
to settle the claim, either by using their own contractors, his contractors, or by making a cash 
payment to him.
There are also Claims conditions which say:
For any claim you must:
 Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership
or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You will have to do this 
at your own expense.
 Allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property.
Ive kept this in mind when deciding whether I consider UKI needs to take any further action 
in respect of Mr Ms complaint. Ive also taken into account that an insurer is required to deal 
with claims promptly and fairly, and to settle claims promptly once settlement terms are 
agreed.
The claim was registered and Mr M was under the impression from his initial 
correspondence with UKI that he was to receive a cash settlement following the initial visit. I 
can appreciate it would have been frustrating when he was asked to obtain quotes. UKI 
accepts that its loss adjuster incorrectly told Mr M it would authorise a cash settlement offer 
comparable to one of the quotes hed provided. This was down to an error. The loss adjuster 
incorrectly thought UKI couldnt repair the damage and as per the terms of the policy, if UKI 
cant repair the damage, it will pay the full cost of repair or rebuild.
However, UKI was able to repair the damage. So it retracted this offer and informed Mr M 
that it would need to ask its contractor to attend. It said it could repair the damaged cabinet 
doors by manufacturing matching replacements, rather than needing to replace the kitchen. 
Mr M says when these contractors attended, they werent wearing appropriate PPE  and he 
was concerned this put him at further unnecessary risk of Covid-19.
UKI has apologised to Mr M for the way it handled the claim and offered a £200 payment of 
compensation by cheque, which I understand Mr M has not cashed. Having considered this, 
I dont think UKI needs to take any further action in respect of resolving this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Whilst I agree the claim didnt progress without issue, Im mindful that the policy wording 
gives UKI the choice of how to settle a claim. Once it discovered the error with the cash 
settlement, I it was reasonable for UKI to correct this and settle the claim a different way. 
And it did this quite quickly, so Mr M was aware that things had changed. 
Any compensation I award is not intended to punish the business; it is to reflect the impact 
its actions had on Mr M. Its clear UKI caused some delay to the claim and Mr M had to 
obtain three quotes unnecessarily. I accept this would have caused some trouble and it 
would be upsetting to go to the trouble of getting quotes only to find these werent needed. 
But I think the sum of £200 offered by UKI is reasonable to reflect the disappointment and 
inconvenience Mr M would have suffered, taking into account the timescales involved.
I dont know if Mr M can still cash the cheque that was sent to him. If not, UKI can send 
another cheque. But other than this, I dont think UKI needs to take any further action. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman