DRN-2955735
The complaint
Mr S complains to Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax about problems faced when trying 
to withdraw money from his share dealing account. 
What happened
Mr S has a share dealing account with Halifax. On 4 May 2020, he received a dividend 
payment of £99.17 on one of his holdings. Mr S wanted to withdraw the money hed 
received, but there was an error on the platform  the fund and withdraw page showed he 
had a balance available to withdraw but a system message explained that Halifax were 
unable to process the request. Mr S says the message suggested he check whether his 
debit card details were correct, whether his account had available funds or whether he 
needed to inform his bank of a large transaction. It also suggested he contact them if 
problems continued. Mr S tried to withdraw the money five times, at 10:01pm, 10:03pm, 
11:13pm, 11:15pm and 11:20pm, but kept getting the error message. 
Mr S told us his card details were correct, there were available funds and that it wasnt a 
large amount. So he couldnt see why hed got the error message. Mr S says he tried to use 
the web chat function but couldnt get through to anyone. He says he didnt try calling as he 
expected the phone lines to be limited as a result of the pandemic. 
The next day, Mr S attempted the withdrawal again and it was successful. But he decided to 
make a complaint as the error message didnt seem to have applied to him and it had led 
him to question the integrity and status of his current account. 
Halifax looked into Mr Ss concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They did 
say theyd experienced some technical issues with withdrawals that day, but that Mr S would 
have been notified about this as hed seen the standardised error message. And it was then 
for him to contact them to clarify the issue. They referred to their terms and conditions 
around placing orders whereby telephone trading is the alternative to online trading.  
Mr S said he couldnt have called as it was after hours, and reiterated that he wasnt 
connected to anyone on web chat. He also felt the terms and conditions cited werent 
relevant as he wasnt looking to make a trade, only to withdraw some money. And if there 
was a known issue, he thought Halifax ought to have put a warning on their website. So he 
asked for our help and asked for £50 compensation to recognise time spent on the issue as 
well as a loss of interest. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened, but he didnt agree Halifax 
needed to compensate Mr S. He didnt think thered been any loss of interest as Mr S was 
able to withdraw his money the day after the problem had arisen. He also didnt think Halifax 
needed to pay compensation on this occasion as he recognised that technical issues do 
occur from time to time.
Mr S remained unhappy. He said that his concerns stemmed further than solely the failed 
withdrawal  he was also concerned with how the transaction process worked as he felt hed 
been given a misleading error message. He was also unhappy that Halifaxs final response 
didnt address his specific concerns, and instead focussed on trading. He thought there was 
loss of interest, even if it was just a day, and still wanted compensation for having to bring 
the complaint  particularly as Halifax knew there was a problem that day but didnt inform 
him. 
As an agreement wasnt reached, Mr Ss complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. He asked for the following points to be taken into account:
That Halifax had confirmed there were known issues with withdrawals that day but 
had failed to tell their customers about this
The system issue led to the error message he received  but it was misleading as it 
referred to funding an account, not withdrawing from one
Halifax have a duty of care to make sure system messages are accurate and not 
misleading
He didnt try to phone Halifax as their website said the call centre was only for 
vulnerable customers, password resets and trading
He asks for compensation to address the inconvenience, bad experience and loss of 
interest
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S tried to withdraw his money five times after 10pm on 4 May 2020 and I 
appreciate this will have been frustrating for him. At the time, he didnt know there was a 
technical issue with Halifaxs system. And though he was shown an error message, he found 
it confusing as it didnt seem to relate to the instruction he was trying to give. 
When our service makes an award of compensation, it isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business as were not their regulator. Instead, we can award fair compensation that's a 
proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inactions) have had on a 
customer. 
For me to award Mr S compensation, Id need to be sure that what Halifax did has led to 
more than just a minor inconvenience or upset  certainly something more than the 
inconvenience and upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our 
dealings with other people, businesses and organisations. We're unlikely to tell a business to 
pay compensation in these circumstances unless what the business did or failed to do had a 
significant impact on a particular customer.
From everything Ive seen here, I dont think the impact to Mr S warrants compensation. He 
tried to withdraw some money late in the evening but was shown an error message. So he 
tried the next morning and it worked. While inconvenient, I dont think this led to a 
considerable impact on Mr S and things were sorted out within a very reasonable amount of 
time. 
I also dont think theres much else Halifax could have done to put things right. Even if Mr S 
had attempted the withdrawals before 9pm when Halifaxs customer support was still open, 
as they explained in an online chat conversation they would have just arranged to transfer 
the funds the next day  so Mr S would have been in the same position. 
I also dont agree Halifaxs error message was misleading or should have been concerning 
as the page Mr S was using was the fund and withdraw page  so it covered both the actions of adding money and removing money from the account. Its therefore 
understandable that a standardised error message would look to address possible issues 
with both funding and withdrawing. And I wouldnt ask Halifax to pay compensation for not 
notifying Mr S of the issue as we cant be sure when it began or was discovered. Also, our 
service isnt Halifaxs regulator so were not able to ask them to change how they or their 
website works.
I take Mr Ss point that Halifaxs final response letter did refer to terms and conditions which 
referenced placing orders, and here he wasnt trying to place an order. But I think Halifax 
were trying to explain that when there is an issue with the online system you need to contact 
them  so its also not something I agree he ought to be compensated for. 
Though I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, from everything Ive seen 
while his withdrawal wasnt completed on the evening of 4 May 2020, it was completed the 
next day. And considering Halifaxs actions, I dont agree they ought to compensate him as I 
think the apology theyve provided is sufficient in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman