DRN-4448825
The complaint
Mr A complains that Marshmallow Insurance Limited wants to use a non-manufacturers part 
to replace his windscreen following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it 
to use a manufacturers part. 
What happened
Mr A made a windscreen claim but he was unhappy that Marshmallow wanted to replace it 
with a non-manufacturers part. Mr A said hed had previous experience where such a part 
had been unsafe. Marshmallow said it was entitled to use non-manufacturers parts by the 
policys terms and conditions. It said that if Mr A wanted a manufacturers windscreen, then 
he would have to pay the difference in costs. But it offered Mr A £100 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Marshmallow was acting in keeping with the policys terms and conditions which Mr A had 
accepted. She didnt see any evidence that the replacement offered was unsafe. And she 
thought Marshmallows offer for its service failing was fair and reasonable.
Mr A replied providing a report from a previous warranty claim for a replacement windscreen. 
As Mr A didnt agree with the Investigators view, the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A wants to keep his family safe. He says that he will use non-
manufacturers glass if Marshmallow tells him what it will do if there is glare. In the 
meantime, he has a cracked windscreen. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
I can see that the policy booklet states on page 39 under Glass Damage:
We may at our discretion use parts that have not been supplied by the original 
manufacturer. If you insist that we use parts supplied by the original manufacturer even 
though alternative non- original manufacturer parts are available you will be required to pay 
us any difference in the cost of such parts.
Mr A accepted the policys terms and conditions when he bought it. And so I would usually 
say that it was fair and reasonable for Marshmallow to rely on this policy condition. But Mr A 
said that non-manufacturers replacement windscreens in the past had been unsafe. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how repairs to a vehicle would be done as 
this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
Mr A provided a report from Marshmallows agent in 2019 stating: 
"Warranty job for the heating element is being too obvious and shiny"
Mr A said this caused unsafe glare when the sun was out as the glare travelled across the 
screen and was blinding when turning. I dont doubt what Mr A says. But the report doesnt 
state this. And I cant see that the report shows that the windscreen was replaced with a 
manufacturers product.
I cant see that Marshmallow has any other expert evidence to consider. And so I cant see 
that Marshmallow has any evidence to show that the intended replacement windscreen is 
unsafe. And so I cant say that it should use a manufacturers replacement.
So, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, Mr A has the option of having the non-
manufacturers replacement fitted or paying the difference to have an original replacement. 
Marshmallow has also offered him the option of paying for an anti-glare film if he so wishes.
If Mr A were to go ahead with a non-manufacturers replacement, then he could rely on the 
policys terms and conditions on page 25 which guarantee repairs made by an approved 
repairer, as I think he has previously done with other insurers. 
I can see that Marshmallows long delay in responding to Mr As complaint has caused him 
trouble and upset whilst he has awaited its decision about replacing his windscreen. I think 
that as Mr A was awaiting a solution to his initial concern with Marshmallows service, then I 
can consider this here as its part and parcel of his complaint. Marshmallow offered Mr A 
£100 compensation for this delay after the complaint came to us. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the trouble and upset caused.
Putting things right
I require Marshmallow Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as it has offered to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Marshmallow Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman