DRN-2411600
The complaint
Mr H complains about a cheque that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided not to pay.
What happened
Mr H is unhappy that a cheque he wrote for £7,350 was returned to him unpaid.
Barclays said this happened as they thought there was a mis-match between the signature 
on the cheque and the one they held on the mandate for the account. Mr H disagreed saying 
it was his signature, and that what happened caused him a loss of reputation and damage. 
Remaining unhappy Mr H brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. Whilst acknowledging that what happened caused 
inconvenience, distress and embarrassment, they thought that considering the amount of the 
cheque, and the concerns about the signature, Barclays acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr H didnt agree as he had expert handwriting reports to show that it was his signature on 
the cheque. He remained of the opinion that Barclays made a mistake, so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a lot of information about his complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
read and carefully considered everything hes provided. Ive summarised the complaint and 
condensed what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. If I dont 
mention a particular point raised by Mr H it isnt because I havent considered it; I have, its 
because I feel I dont need to comment on every point to reach an outcome which I think is 
fair and reasonable. Im confident I understand the crux of the complaint; Mr H feels that 
Barclays made a mistake when returning the cheque unpaid. 
This complaint centres around Mr Hs signature on the cheque and he has provided 
evidence from handwriting experts about this. Im not a handwriting expert and I dont need 
to be in order to come to a decision on this complaint. Thats because the matter for me to 
consider is whether I think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably when returning the cheque 
unpaid. The matter is not whether I think the signature is genuine. This is an important 
distinction. 
For the record, I think the signature is genuine, but that doesnt mean that Barclays did 
anything wrong. 
Barclays, like all financial businesses, have security policies in place to prevent fraud and 
theyre free to set how those policies work. Detecting fraud can be difficult and sometimes 
these policies have the inadvertent effect of inconveniencing a customer. But that doesnt 
mean that the policy is wrong, or that the business has made a mistake, nor that the policy 
didnt work how it is supposed to.
Part of Barclays fraud policy is to conduct signature checks on cheques randomly selected 
according to their security policy. Mr Hs cheque was one of those selected for checking. 
Once selected the cheque is looked at by Barclays and then a decision is made about 
whether to pay or return the cheque.
Mr H is worried the decision not to pay the cheque was made by machine and not a person. 
After reviewing all of the evidence Im satisfied this isnt the case, and that the decision was 
made manually by a person. 
The person had concerns about the signature so made the decision to return it unpaid. Its 
right for Barclays to do this if there are concerns as its a measure to prevent fraud. As I said 
above, unfortunately sometimes this means that inadvertently, and in good faith with no 
intention of harm, this inconveniences some customers; this is what has happened to Mr H. 
Mr H has provided two reports from handwriting experts both of which say they feel the 
signature is genuine. I agree, and I too think the signature is genuine. But, importantly and 
crucially for this complaint, Barclays didnt know that at the time, and thats what I must take 
into consideration. At the time of looking at the cheque Barclays had concerns about the 
signature, so they followed their security procedures and the cheque was returned unpaid. 
Having looked at what happened, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably when 
doing so. 
When investigating his complaint Barclays issued Mr H with a final response letter. This 
explains what happened and says that Mr H can show the letter to any third party as 
confirmation that the cheque was returned for a technical reason and not due to the lack of 
funds. It also confirms that there is no effect on Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H is unhappy with this and would like a more detailed letter from Barclays apologising for 
making a mistake. Im satisfied that Barclays didnt make a mistake in returning the cheque, 
so wont be asking them to issue another letter. Im happy the letter has sufficient detail 
about what happened.  
When deciding to return the cheque unpaid Barclays didnt contact Mr H at the time. 
Barclays says that its not their policy to contact consumers about these kinds of decisions. I 
can see why contacting Mr H mightve avoided the situation, however its not for me to tell 
Barclays how to set their policies.
Mr H has provided a lot of background information about why what happened caused him a 
great deal of upset and damage to his reputation. I can clearly see how Mr H has been 
affected, and how strongly he feels about the matter. Ive read and considered all of this 
information, however because Im satisfied with how Barclays acted, I wont be awarding any 
compensation. 
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably 
when deciding not to pay the cheque. Thats to say that Mr H hasnt been affected by what 
happened; he clearly has, but I think Barclays acted fairly when they had concerns about the 
signature and that no mistakes were made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman