DRN-2816460
The complaint
Mr C complains that OVO (S) Home Services Limited (OVO) cancelled his home emergency 
policy in error and then said it couldnt reinstate it without going through the full application 
process. Mr C wants the plan reinstating.
What happened
Mr C had a home emergency policy with OVO covering his boiler. The policy renewed in 
January 2020. The documents issued by OVO said monthly premiums would be collected 
through the existing direct debit. In February 2020 OVO wrote saying it hadnt been able to 
collect the premium as the bank details were incorrect. Mr C called OVO to advise there was 
no change to his bank details. It was agreed that two payments would be collected in March.
On 5 March 2020 OVO wrote again saying it hadnt been able to take any payment as the 
bank details were incorrect. It sent a further letter the next day cancelling the policy and 
demanded payment of a £120.87 cancellation charge within 14 days to avoid further follow 
up action. Mr C called OVO. It said the policy had been cancelled automatically because the 
premium hadnt been paid. Mr C said the bank details were correct.
OVO said it would waive the cancellation charge and the February premium but said the 
January premium still needed to be paid as Mr C had been covered. It said the policy 
couldnt be reinstated but a new policy could be taken out. This would need Mr C to go 
through the telephone sales process due to various regulatory requirements including the 
setting up of a new direct debit. Mr C wasnt happy about this and complained, saying he just 
wanted the policy reinstated. 
OVO rejected his complaint. It said there was no instruction in respect of the direct debit 
which is why the policy had been cancelled and there was no other way of setting up a new 
policy.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it and upheld it. 
He said OVO now accepted it had made an administration error with the direct debit 
instruction to Mr Cs bank. He said Mr C had been without cover on his boiler for eight 
months as a result of the problem which had been stressful for him. Our investigator said 
OVO should pay £150 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience Mr C was having to 
go through to get the policy set back up. He said OVO should treat any new policy as being 
continuous to the old one to avoid any limitation in cover.
OVO said it would treat a new policy as being continuous. It said the award of £150 was 
disproportionate to the inconvenience Mr C had suffered. As hed only be needed for twenty-
minutes for the telephone call, which would be arranged at a time to suit him. Our 
investigator said the £150 wasnt just for Mr Cs time for the sales call but for the overall 
inconvenience and distress caused by the problem. OVO disagreed saying the award 
appeared to be for the telephone call only. 
As OVO doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 10 February 2021, I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint, but have come to a different conclusion on how things should be put 
right. Ill explain why.
When we think a business hasnt treated a customer fairly, where possible, we try to put the 
customer back in the position they should have been in. We can also award compensation 
for any trouble and upset suffered. Mr C wants the policy reinstated. OVO insist this cant be 
done. Mr C wasnt at fault for the cancellation and it did take some time for the administration 
error responsible to be acknowledged by OVO. 
Mr C recently contacted our investigator saying he was concerned about not having cover. 
Our investigator asked OVO to call Mr C and it has been in touch with him about this and 
hopefully this can now be arranged to Mr Cs satisfaction. 
I think the problem has caused Mr C some trouble and upset. He had to make calls to try 
and resolve matters. He received correspondence demanding payment of a cancellation 
charge, which whilst waived would still be distressing. And arranging a replacement policy, 
whether with OVO or another provider, will take up some more of Mr Cs time. 
However, Mr C did have the option to arrange replacement cover if hed wanted to do so. 
And I think its likely that if Mr C had been worried about not having cover in place he would 
gone ahead and arranged something sooner. And without any cover in place, he hasnt 
incurred the expense of the premiums. So, I think the primary issue here is the 
inconvenience and time rather than distress at being without the cover.
OVO has made some attempt to resolve matters. It says it will treat any new policy as being 
continuous. It has now said that it will offer any promotional price available to reduce Mr Cs 
premium. It has already waived premiums of £22.67 on the old policy. Taking everything into 
account I think OVO should pay some further compensation to Mr C. 
I think a reasonable amount of compensation for the trouble and upset here would be £75. 
This is lower than was suggested by our investigator and I know Mr C will be disappointed 
by this. But I think this is fair to both Mr C and to OVO in the circumstances here and is in 
line with awards made by our service.
Response to provisional decision
Mr C said he didnt agree with the compensation amount of £75 and that OVO hadnt waived 
the premium of £22.67, as hed paid this on 30 March 2020.
OVO accepted the decision and said it had made the payment of £75 compensation. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
In respect of the premium that Mr C says wasnt waived, when the policy was cancelled two 
premiums  for January and February 2020  hadnt been collected due to OVOs error. 
OVO said it would waive the January premium. But that Februarys was due as Mr C had 
been covered by the policy. This was the premium Mr C paid on 30th March 2020. As hed 
had the benefit of the cover in January and February 2020, I wouldnt expect OVO to waive 
all the premiums.
After the policy was cancelled Mr C was free to arrange a new policy with OVO or 
elsewhere. OVO says it will treat any new policy as being continuous, ensuring no reduction 
in cover as well as making any promotional price available to Mr C. I think this is a 
reasonable offer to help resolve the problem. But I do think Mr C was inconvenienced by 
OVOs error, which caused confusion and wasted his time. 
Mr C disagreed that £75 was reasonable compensation but I do think this amount reflects 
the inconvenience suffered here. And it is in line with awards our service would make in 
similar circumstances. Overall, with OVOs offer and the waiving of the premium of £22.67, I 
think this provides a fair resolution to Mr Cs complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against OVO (S) Home Services Limited. 
I direct OVO (S) Home Services Limited to resolve Mr Cs complaint as set out above by 
paying him £75 in compensation for his trouble and upset if it hasnt already done so. If Mr C 
decides to take out a new policy with it this should be treated as a continuation of his 
previous policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman