DRN-4354097
The complaint
The representatives of Mrs Rs estate complain that CoFunds Limited, trading as Aegon, 
have been unable to trace investments they believe Mrs R held with them prior to her death.
The representatives are unhappy with the length of time Aegon have taken to provide them 
with answers. They want the estate to be recompensed for the additional legal fees which 
they believe have resulted because of Aegons delays so the beneficiaries arent 
disadvantaged.
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs R passed away. Her Will left her estate to her two children. At the time, the 
representatives understood that Mrs R may have held an investment with Legal and 
General. After contacting Legal and General, the representatives were advised in January 
2022 that whilst she did initially hold an account with them, her investment was subsequently 
passed to Aegon in or around December 2016. With this insight, the representatives then 
contacted Aegon.
In February 2022, Aegon wrote to the representatives explaining Mrs Rs investments were 
held with ReAssure rather than themselves. Aegon provided ReAssures contact details and 
suggested all queries should be directed to them. However, after approaching ReAssure, the 
representatives were advised no such investment existed with them. So, on 7 April 2022, 
Mrs Rs representatives went back to Aegon to try and understand how they determined her 
investment was with ReAssure. 
Aegons telephone helpline were only able to provide limited information to Mrs Rs 
representatives. They explained that Mrs R previously held an account with them, but it now 
had a zero balance. During the call, Aegon werent able to explain whether the zero balance 
was a consequence of them having paid out the benefits to Mrs R, or as a result of them 
transferring the monies away to another provider.
The representatives decided to complain to Aegon that same day, saying in summary that 
they werent satisfied that theyd been provided with adequate information to be able to 
determine what had happened with Mrs Rs monies. After not receiving a response to that 
complaint, Mrs Rs representatives chased Aegon for an update at the end of April 2022. A 
further complaint was then submitted on 4 May 2022 and again, the representatives say they 
received no response to this. So, on 18 May 2022, the representatives telephoned Aegons 
Helpline again. Aegon repeated the information theyd provided earlier  that was to say, Mrs 
R had at some point had a plan with them, but they were unable to say what had happened 
to those funds. So, on 18 May 2022, Mrs Rs representatives complained for a third time to 
Aegon.
Aegon didnt provide a response to the representatives complaint within eight weeks, so 
referral rights were issued to this service on 11 July 2022. In October 2022, Mrs Rs 
representatives raised their concerns with us.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Aegon 
hadnt treated Mrs Rs representatives unfairly. He went on to explain that as the information 
Aegon held was limited, they werent able to shed any further light on the issue beyond what 
theyd already provided.
Mrs Rs representatives disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said 
that the estate had incurred costs because of Aegons failure to respond to them in a timely 
manner and provide full answers to their questions.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view because he felt that the estate 
wouldve incurred costs in administering the estate anyway, and he didnt feel the actions of 
Aegon had impacted that need. Unhappy with the Investigators response, Mrs Rs 
representatives then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review 
that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on the case 
because I reached a different outcome to that of the Investigator. For completeness, a copy 
of my provisional decision is below.
What I said in my provisional decision:
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs Rs representatives and Aegon and to reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of this case. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulations and best industry 
practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information I've been given, 
what's more likely than not to have happened. Having done so, Im upholding the complaint 
thats been raised by Mrs Rs representatives and Ill explain why below.
From what Ive seen, the information that Aegon appears to hold about Mrs R is limited. 
Theyve been able to confirm she held an investment with them at some point, but beyond 
that, theyve been able to explain little else. As such, I dont think theyre able to provide the 
level of detail Mrs Rs representatives are looking for.
I can well understand the representatives frustration in trying to get to the bottom of what 
monies Mrs R held with Aegon and when. Winding up an estate can be an incredibly 
stressful time for family members, particularly when trying to source answers to incomplete 
information whilst at the same time having to pay for professional help. Having looked 
closely at the timeline of events, it does appear Mrs Rs representatives have struggled to 
get a clear answer to what appears to be relatively straight forward questions. Their role in 
administering the estate requires them to conduct appropriate enquiries to satisfy 
themselves that all of Mrs Rs assets have been identified and properly accounted for.
As Ive already explained, Mrs Rs representatives have had numerous interactions with 
Aegon as early as the beginning of last year. They subsequently submitted several 
complaints to Aegon on the same issue dated 7 April, 4 May and on 18 May 2022, and made 
numerous telephone calls to them as well. Theyve also provided Aegon copies of Mrs Rs 
Will and her death certificate to assist in those enquiries on a number of occasions. Whats 
clear is at some point, Mrs R did have an investment with Aegon. The balance is now zero 
but, as a consequence of their legacy systems, Aegon are uncertain what then happened to 
those monies. So, I cant force Aegon to provide information to Mrs Rs representatives that 
they say they dont have.Whilst Aegon may argue their telephone helpline shared what little information they had with 
Mrs Rs representatives when they called, I dont think Aegon were clear enough that they 
had no further information beyond what was shared.
When I reflect on the service Aegon have provided, I think they could have reached that 
conclusion sooner. Whilst I dont doubt that they referred Mrs Rs representatives to 
ReAssure in good faith, they must have held information within their systems to point them in 
that direction. I think, had Aegon responded to Mrs Rs representatives in full with all the 
information that they held when they were originally asked at the beginning of 2022, the 
subsequent interactions such as telephone calls and emails along with the three complaints 
could more likely than not have been avoided. So, its on that basis that Im upholding the 
complaint.
As our Investigator has already highlighted, this service doesnt have access to a searchable 
database that would allow us to help identify where, if anywhere, Mrs R may have 
transferred her monies to. However, the Pension Tracing Service, which is a free searchable 
online tool, may provide a useful starting point.
Responses to my provisional decision
After receiving my provisional decision, Aegon responded explaining that they didnt agree 
with the outcome. Thats because they say, they made Mrs Rs representatives aware in 
February 2022 that they no longer held the assets, and they should contact ReAssure. 
Aegon went on to say it was unfair to hold them accountable given theyd provided 
information to Mrs Rs representatives at the earliest opportunity.
Mrs Rs representatives didnt provide any comment to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Aegon were prompt to respond to Mrs Rs representatives original query in 
February 2022. However, because it subsequently transpired that ReAssure werent holding 
any of Mrs Rs assets, her representatives found themselves having to recontact Aegon for 
further information. And, its Aegons subsequent interactions with them following that first 
communication that I think couldve been handled more efficiently and effectively. 
As Ive already explained above, I think having submitted three complaints, made various 
telephone calls and sent in a number of emails failed to allow Mrs Rs representatives to get 
to the bottom of what had happened with her monies at Aegon. I think the delays Aegon took 
in providing answers, some of those being incomplete only prolonged what should have 
been a relatively straightforward case. So, given Ive not been presented with any new 
evidence that changes my mind, Im upholding the complaint and require Aegon to put things 
right in the manner Ive set out below.
Putting things right
At the point that the complaint was raised to this service, Mrs Rs representatives explained 
that the estate had incurred legal costs of around £660 + VAT in dealing with this issue. 
Theyd like those costs refunding.Whilst I agree that Aegon should be held accountable for the additional interactions Mrs Rs 
representatives have had to undertake, Im not going to instruct Aegon to refund all those 
charges. Thats because, in dealing with the administration of the estate, its expected that 
some time and expense will be incurred. In addition, we wouldnt ordinarily make an award 
purely because an individual had to make a complaint. However, as Ive already said, I think 
Aegon missed an opportunity in dealing with the original query in one touch. So, taking 
account of the various telephone calls, emails and complaints that Mrs Rs representatives 
have had to submit, Im making an award of £500 for the trouble theyve caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require CoFunds Limited trading as Aegon to pay the redress that 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman