DRN-3582647
The complaint
Ms S complains that Santander UK Plc has not credited her account with funds she 
deposited at a machine in branch in September 2021. 
What happened
Ms S explains that she went into a branch of Santander and used a machine to deposit 
some money. She thinks it was either £700 or £800. She recalls that she didnt get a receipt 
at the time, but assumed the machine was out of paper. Ms S noticed the money hadnt 
been credited around two weeks later and contacted Santander to follow it up. 
Santander said it had no record of Ms S trying to pay in this money. In its final response 
letters, it said it had checked all of the machines and there was no overage of either £700 or 
£800. It had no digital footprint of Ms S using the branch on that day. It said there was no 
reported issues with any of the machines in branch, which have all balanced correctly. 
Initially Santander did not view any CCTV because Ms S could not remember the time she 
was in the branch or the exact amount she tried to pay in. Then Santander said the footage 
did not show any attempt to deposit cash in the machine on this date. Ms S was concerned 
that Santander had viewed the footage without knowing what she looked like or what she 
was wearing on the day in question. 
As Ms S remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service. She felt Santander 
had dismissed the case without any investigation. Right from the outset, she said Santander 
needed to provide the CCTV evidence to us as it was the core basis of her claim. Ms S was 
clear that the footage would show her entering into the branch on that day. Although we 
acted quickly to try and obtain it, Santander had deleted it before Ms S brought her 
complaint to us.
One of our Investigators considered Ms Ss complaint but wasnt persuaded that there was 
enough evidence to say that Ms S made the deposit. She thought there would have been an 
electronic record to show Ms Ss card was used at the machine. There was also no evidence 
to suggest the machine malfunctioned around the time Ms S recalls using it. She suggested 
that Ms S was possibly mistaken in her recollection of the day and highlighted some of the 
difficulties Ms S had told us she was facing in her personal life around this time. She didnt 
think she could ask Santander to credit her with the money, but she thought the bank had 
caused Ms S distress and inconvenience as its communication with her was inadequate 
during its investigation. She recommended that the bank should pay £150 compensation for 
this. 
Santander accepted the outcome as it wanted to keep a good relationship with Ms S.
Ms S did not agree. She thought we should be holding Santander accountable for destroying 
crucial evidence. She pointed out that she had been very consistent in what shed said, and 
Santander had been misleading. She said the fact that the digital footprint did not show her 
at the branch did not mean that she was not there.  Ms S felt something had gone wrong and 
that the CCTV would have proved it. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what 
I think is the right outcome. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, as there is in this case, I have to base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the evidence that is available. 
The question I have to decide in this case is whether, on balance, Ms S tried to pay cash into 
her account at a specific Santander branch. I have read the letter Ms S wrote addressed to 
the deciding Ombudsman and I can see how strongly she feels about this matter. 
Unfortunately, that alone doesnt mean it would be fair to ask Santander to pay her money 
she may not have paid over to them.
Ms S believes there was a problem with Santanders systems and that Santander has 
dishonestly taken customer money. I acknowledge that bank staff and systems are not 
infallible. But I am not persuaded this is the most likely explanation in the circumstances of 
this complaint. It is likely that an error with the machine or branch systems at the time Ms S 
recalls being there would have impacted more customers, especially given the branch is 
located in a busy London suburb. Santander has said there were no technical issues with 
the machines in the branch on this day. This means that the machines were functioning 
correctly and there would be an entry on the journal roll on a machine if Ms Ss card had 
been used to make a transaction.
Santander has also explained that no surplus cash was found in the branch machines as 
they all balanced correctly. This means there were no uncompleted transactions at this time. 
In addition, branch procedures typically require interactions with machines to involve at least 
two staff members. This means that at least two staff members would need to be complicit in 
exploiting a random opportunity to steal any cash that was unaccounted for, which although 
is possible, does not seem most likely to me given the level of risk and repercussion involved 
for what would be a modest financial gain. 
Ms S is adamant that the CCTV would have shown her entering the branch on that day. She 
is concerned as to how Santander was allowed to destroy the evidence that was crucial to 
her case. Santander says it thought the dispute had been concluded so the footage was no 
longer required. Its not unusual for businesses to delete CCTV on a short rolling cycle and 
Im unable to fairly say that Santander should have kept the footage for longer than its typical 
retention period in case Ms S went on to refer a dispute to this service at a later date. 
As Santander deleted the relevant footage before Ms S contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, it has never been available for us to examine. I cant fairly assume what that CCTV 
might have shown if it had been available to view. I understand how strongly Ms S feels 
about the CCTV. But as I have explained above, there are other factors I have to take into 
account. On balance, having thought very carefully about all of the evidence that is available in this 
case, I cant be as sure as I would need to be that Ms S made a cash deposit at a machine 
in branch that was not then credited to her account. This means it would not be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask Santander to pay Ms S the money.  
Santander has agreed to pay Ms S the £150 compensation that our Investigator 
recommended. I think this is fair and Santander should now make this payment if it remains 
outstanding.    
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms S £150 in order to resolve her 
complaint. I make no other order or award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman