DRN-3934769
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to refund over £150,000 he says 
he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known, so I will not repeat everything again here in 
detail.
In brief summary, Mr R fell victim to an investment scam. He made several payments in 
branch from his Santander account between October 2020 and March 2021, totalling over 
£150,000, which was made to different scam investment companies (Redrock Ltd, FT 
Holding Company, NT Trading LLC). 
Santander said it had multiple discussions with Mr R on both the telephone and in branch 
about the purpose of the payments and the risk that he was being scammed. Mr R told 
Santander the money was for farming equipment for a company that had been 
recommended by a close friend, so the payments were allowed to be released. 
When Mr R came to make another payment on 21 April 2021, Santander discovered that he 
was actually paying the money towards an investment, so it invoked the Banking Protocol 
and contacted the police. Both the bank and the police told Mr R that he was being 
scammed, but he refused to believe them and was adamant that it was a genuine 
investment opportunity. When he eventually discovered he had been scammed, Santander 
refused to provide him with a refund as it said it had given him several warnings. The 
payments were also not covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code 
that Santander is signed up to as the payments were made to international accounts.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Santander ought to have 
intervened sooner but didnt think it would have prevented the loss in any event given the 
police were not even able to persuade Mr R that he was being scammed. Mr R disagreed, 
so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr R authorised the disputed payments he made to the scammers 
from his Santander account. The payments were requested by him in branch, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr R 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that the payments Mr R made were considered unusual by Santander 
given they did warn him that he might be falling for a scam and even invoked the 
Banking Protocol. And I think Santander ought to have intervened and questioned Mr R 
about the purpose of the payments sooner, and from the very first transaction he made 
to Redrock Ltd on 1 October 2020, as the FCA had published a warning about this 
company in July 2020. However, even if the bank had intervened sooner, Im not 
persuaded it would have ultimately prevented Mr Rs loss. Ill explain why.  
All the payments were made in branch, and Santander said it had multiple discussions 
with Mr R about the purpose of the payments and the risk that he was being scammed. 
However, Mr R wasnt honest about the purpose of the payments and told Santander the 
money was for farming equipment for a company that had been recommended by a 
close friend. He said he had used their services in the past and had not been coerced 
into making the payment in any way. He also said he had received an invoice and was 
constantly in touch with the company. I can see that Santander eventually became 
sceptical of this and asked Mr R to be completely honest, where it eventually discovered 
he was investing the money. Santander told him it thought he was being scammed and 
invoked the Banking Protocol on 21 April 2021, where the police attended the branch. 
However, despite the police warning Mr R that he was being scammed, I can see from 
Santanders notes that he remained adamant it was genuine and that he wasnt being 
scammed. He even said that if Santander refused to send the funds, that he would 
transfer it to another bank account and simply make the payment from there. 
So, given the police were not able to break the spell Mr R was under, Im not persuaded 
there is anything more that Santander could have reasonably done to make him realise 
he was being scammed either. Its clear that he was determined to make the payments 
despite being told by both the bank and the police that he was being scammed. 
Therefore, I dont think any earlier intervention or invoking of the Banking Protocol 
wouldve made any difference in this scenario, because I think its more likely than not 
that Mr R wouldve either not been upfront about the purpose of the payment (as he had 
been initially) or wouldve continued to dismiss the fraud warnings he was given by the 
bank. And given that the police were not able to make him realise he was being 
scammed  and seeing as he was determined to make the payment whether it be from 
his Santander account or one with a different bank  I do not think that any intervention 
from Santander at any earlier point would have stopped the scam. So, Im not persuaded 
it would have been able to prevent Mr Rs loss, meaning it cannot fairly or reasonably be 
held liable in these circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether Santander did enough to try and recover the funds. Mr R 
reported the fraud in June 2021, and I can see that Santander sent electronic messages 
to the beneficiary banks, and also chased these up when no response was received. It 
eventually received a response from one of the banks stating that the funds could not be 
returned as the beneficiary account had since been closed. So, I dont think Santander 
could have reasonably done anything more to try and recover the funds in these 
circumstances. And even if I thought Santander could have sent the indemnity requests 
sooner, the fraud was reported around three months after the last scam payment Mr R 
made from his account in March 2021, meaning it wouldve been highly unlikely that any 
funds would have remained in any event (as funds are typically moved out of the 
receiving account very quickly by such scammers). 
Santander are also under no obligation to refund the money under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, as it only applies to transfers made between GBP 
denominated UK domiciled accounts (whereas the payments Mr R made were 
international transfers). 
Santander also offered Mr R £100 compensation for its handling of his fraud claim, as it 
failed to call him after it said it would. I understand this would have been frustrating for 
Mr R, but I dont consider it would have caused anything more than moderate upset and 
inconvenience, so Im satisfied the compensation offered by the bank for its poor service 
is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded Santander could have 
reasonably prevented his loss in these circumstances, so I wont be asking it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman