DRN-4182092
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) failed to action 
instructions to close her ISA account in December 2021. 
She feels this led to her losing out on being able to benefit from better performing funds 
elsewhere and to put things right Mrs P wants financial compensation.
Im grateful to Mrs Ps representative for all the assistance provided throughout this 
complaint. However, to help keep things simpler, Ill refer in my decision to Mrs P since this 
is a complaint about what happened to her account. 
What happened
Fidelity did not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said that after a thorough search for any phone 
calls or communication from Mrs P around the time Mrs P says she told Fidelity to close her 
ISA account, it was unable to locate any instruction from her telling Fidelity to close her ISA 
account and release the proceeds.
Our investigator was unable to find enough evidence to suggest that Mrs P provided clear 
instructions to close her ISA account when shed said this had happened. So our investigator 
didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view. Ive summarised her main observations, as 
follows: 
on 30 December 2021, Mrs P is certain that she asked Fidelity by phone to close the 
ISA account and send her the funds
Mrs P feels that Fidelity seems not to have realised it made an error 
when Fidelity didnt respond to the closure request, Mrs P says she had to chase this 
up on 7 March 2022
Fidelity blamed Mrs P for failing security questions which was not the case
since 30 December 2021 Mrs P gave many instructions to close the account, all 
ignored by Fidelity, which meant Mrs P was denied the right to switch to a better 
performing fund or manager. 
As the complaint has not been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mrs Ps ISA account was migrated to Fidelity in September 2021 she complained to 
Fidelity and to us about a number of issues which have been dealt with elsewhere. To be 
clear, I am only dealing here with the complaint that Fidelity didnt action Mrs Ps ISA closure 
instructions. 
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Mrs P feels about this complaint. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached her complaint. 
I wont necessarily mention everything that Mrs P has brought to my attention and Ive 
expressed some of her concerns in my own words. But I will comment on everything that 
makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited or contradictory information. Theres more information on our website which explains 
the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
I've carefully listened to all the call recordings Fidelity has sent us. Ive no reason to think 
that the call recordings provided by Fidelity are incomplete  it has provided me with 
information showing that it carried out detailed searches for all relevant dates and phone 
numbers. Mrs P hasnt provided me with any information from her own phone records that 
shows there were any other calls made to Fidelity. So its fair for me to base my decision 
mainly on what was said during the calls I've listened to. 
I can hear that on a number of occasions Mrs P did not pass security when she was unable 
to answer specific questions Fidelity was required to ask as part of its verification process. 
During a call on 30 December 2021 (which was mostly about a different matter concerning a 
cheque) there was brief mention of Mrs P wishing to stop the account with you. But this 
comment was made when Mrs P and her representative were having difficulty completing 
security questions and becoming increasingly frustrated that Fidelity couldnt accept the 
cheque they wanted to pay into Mrs Ps ISA. 
Closing her ISA certainly doesnt seem to have been the purpose of the call (which I think 
would be likely if this had been Mrs Ps express intention at the time). And I dont find that 
any clear and specific request to close the account was made nor were any instructions 
provided by Mrs P about this during the phone call  or indeed subsequently. I think its worth pointing out that Fidelity could not have accepted any such instructions 
during the call on 30 December because even though Mrs P was able to provide some 
information, it wasnt enough to meet Fidelitys security requirements. All financial 
businesses must have measures in place to help combat fraud and keep customers money 
safe. Fidelity made it clear throughout the call that without first completing its security 
checks, the call handler couldnt gain access to Mrs Ps account. So even if I were to say 
that Fidelity should have understood that Mrs P had communicated a firm intention to close 
her ISA, this makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint since that request could 
not have been actioned unless Mrs P completed identification checks and that didnt happen 
during this call. 
Mrs P said that having provided all the identity documents to the previous provider, these 
must have been transferred to Fidelity on migration of the ISA. But financial businesses are 
required to complete their own identity checks and verification and Fidelity needed to request 
up to date information from Mrs P  it couldnt rely on the verification done by the previous 
provider. Fidelity says it had asked Mrs P for the required ID verification documents when 
Mrs Ps investments were migrated to it and its records show that ID documents were 
received for Mrs P in September 2022. 
Fidelity received a letter from Mrs P in March 2022, but this didnt say anything about her 
having asked for the account to be closed. I think it's fair to say that if this was something 
Mrs P had expected to happen in or around December 2021/January 2022, and shed been 
waiting for her money since then, its more likely that she would have chased this up sooner. 
And it would be surprising if she hadnt mentioned it when communicating with Fidelity in 
March 2022 if shed already been waiting a couple of months for news of her money.
I have no reason at all to doubt that Mrs P is certain about what shes told us about having 
given instructions over the phone in December 2021 to close her ISA. But what she says 
isnt enough for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
I must be impartial and fair to both parties. 
On balance, the available information suggests that Mrs P did not give clear instructions to 
Fidelity to close her ISA in December 2021 - and for this to happen, she wouldve needed to 
provide required ID documents, which she hadnt done at that stage. Fidelity subsequently 
transferred Mrs Ps investments to a new platform manager in line with transfer instructions 
she provided in July 2022 once she was able to meet its verification requirements. 
To sum up, I havent seen enough to show that Fidelity did anything wrong or that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably with regard to Mrs Ps ISA account. 
So I cant fairly uphold her complaint that Fidelity didnt take action to close her ISA account 
after a phone call in December 2021.I hope that setting things out as I've done helps Mrs P to understand how I've reached my 
conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome she hoped for, Mrs P will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman