DRN-3905385
The complaint
Mr G complains HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted his account for two weeks during which time 
his business wasnt able to pay suppliers, people or bills. He complains that this had a huge 
impact on him, his business and his family.
What happened
Mr G has a business  one that he says hes spent his life building up  and a business 
account with HSBC.
Mr G says HSBC froze his business account without any warning or explanation. He says he 
contacted HSBC using its online chat to find out why and was told he needed to call. He 
says he called  and did so repeatedly over the following two weeks  but no-one could tell 
him what was going on. He says his account returned to normal two weeks later  but huge 
damage had been done in the meantime. He complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated Mr Gs complaint and said that it had restricted his business account as it 
was complying with its UK statutory requirements. HSBC said it had removed the restriction 
after two weeks and that it had done nothing wrong so was unable to compensate him.
Mr G was unhappy with HSBCs response and so complained to us. He said hed like HSBC 
to acknowledge the absolute stress that it had put him and his family under and to contact 
the relevant credit agencies and suppliers who didnt get paid to explain that it wasnt his 
fault. In addition, he said hed like HSBC to compensate him for all of the financial loss that it 
had caused him and for the emotional turmoil placed on him and his family.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and said that HSBC hadnt made an 
error so his complaint couldnt be upheld. Mr G was unhappy with our investigators 
response saying that whilst he understood terms and conditions allowed HSBC to restrict his 
account it couldnt be right that he should have had to go through what he did. He asked for 
an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from Mr Gs evidence that the two weeks during which his business account was 
frozen were unbelievably difficult, for all the reasons hes given. I can also understand why 
he thought all of the things hes told us about  including fearing that he might lose his 
business, home and family through no fault of his own. I can understand too how having no 
idea what he is meant to have done wrong  to use his own words  must make it even 
harder for Mr G to reconcile what has happened. In this case, however, I agree with our 
investigator that HSBC had reason to restrict Mr Gs business account and, just as 
importantly, that HSBC removed that restriction within a reasonable period of time. Had 
HSBC kept the restriction in place longer than it should have done, or applied it unfairly, then 
it would be right to uphold this complaint. But it didnt.
Given what Ive just said, I agree that HSBC not only acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Gs business account, but also that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably. I 
appreciate that this had a significant impact on Mr G, his business and his family. But as 
HSBC hasnt acted unreasonably or unfairly, it wouldnt be fair to tell HSBC to pay Mr G 
compensation for whats happened. Im sorry I cant add more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint as I cannot say HSBC UK Bank Plc 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably notwithstanding the obvious impact on Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman