DRN-3626879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Aspen Insurance UK Limited didnt confirm whether it would 
cover a cancellation claim they made on their wedding insurance. As a result they incurred 
costs in pursuing the matter in court.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have wedding insurance with Aspen taken out in March 2020. They were due 
to get married in April 2021. Covid-19 restrictions in their part of the UK meant only five 
people would have been able to attend the ceremony. The venue offered alternative dates 
but these werent suitable for Mr and Mrs B. As it wouldnt offer a refund they decided to 
pursue a court claim against the venue. They say they didnt claim on their policy because 
guidance on Aspens website said they should take court action if their wedding was affected 
by Government restrictions. 
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs B contacted Aspen to make a claim as the website guidance had 
changed. Aspen asked for further information later that month and said it couldnt guarantee 
the success of the claim until that had been received. Mr and Mrs B say they responded in a 
timely manner. At the start of August, Aspen asked for further information on their court case 
and whether this had been cancelled or closed. Mrs B said to cancel the claim shed need 
confirmation Aspen was prepared to pay the claim in full. She asked for a prompt response 
as there was a discussion with court representatives and the other side scheduled for 12 
August. 
Aspen didnt respond to that email and the case progressed. Settlement was agreed on 13 
September with the venue agreeing to pay £3000 to Mr and Mrs B in full and final 
settlement. Mrs B contacted Aspen and asked it to pay the court fee shed incurred, an £80 
shortfall in the claim amount and £2280 in recognition of the time shed put into pursuing the 
case. Aspen agreed to cover the court fee and the shortfall. It also agreed a payment of 
£300 for distress and inconvenience. But it didnt agree to cover Mrs Bs time in pursuing the 
claim. 
Our investigator agreed Aspen didnt need to cover that part of Mrs Bs claim. But she 
thought the distress and inconvenience payment should be increased to £500. Aspen 
agreed to do that. Mrs B remained unhappy. She said Aspen hadnt responded to the 
queries she raised and so she didnt know how pursuing the court case would impact the 
insurance claim. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I dont think Aspen was responsible for Mr and Mrs Bs initial decision to pursue court 
action rather than making a claim on their policy. The website guidance didnt say theyd 
need to take court action if their wedding was cancelled as a result of government act or 
regulation. It did say this may mean the claim is excluded from cover. But the guidance 
also said each claim would be reviewed on its individual circumstances and merits. So it 
remained open to Mr and Mrs B to have made a claim on their policy. And if that had been 
declined by Aspen they could have complained and brought the matter to our service for an 
independent review. 
After they did make a claim in June 2021 Aspen initially responded promptly and requested 
relevant further information from Mr and Mrs B in support of this. I think it was reasonable of 
it to then query the position in relation to the ongoing court action at the start of August as 
the outcome of that process could impact any payment Mr and Mrs B might receive from 
their insurance policy (which only covers irrecoverable costs). 
However, I do think there was then a failing by Aspen. It didnt respond to the query Mrs B 
raised about whether her claim would be paid if she decided not to pursue the court action. 
And I appreciate that in the absence of a response from Aspen Mrs B might have felt she 
had little option but to pursue the court process given she had an upcoming discussion with 
court representatives and the other side a week later. 
But even if Aspen had provided a response at that time I dont think it would have made a 
difference to the position Mrs B was in. It had previously told Mrs B it was unable to 
guarantee the outcome of her claim. Thats in line with the revised guidance on its website 
which says although the government act exclusion would no longer be applied claims would 
nevertheless be assessed against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And it 
doesnt appear Aspen was in a position at the start of August to confirm to Mr and Mrs B 
what the outcome of their claim would be. 
That means even if had responded Mrs B would still have been faced with the same difficult 
choice as to whether to pursue court action or wait for the outcome of the claim process (and 
risk finding herself with nothing if that was unsuccessful). Her email in early August 
expressed concern about exactly that issue. I think it likely shed only have decided against 
pursuing court action if Aspen had given an assurance the claim would be paid. And I dont 
think thats something it would reasonably have been in a position to do at that time. So I 
think shed still have pursued the court route meaning the costs shes now claiming for would 
have been incurred even if Aspen had responded to her. 
However, I do agree Aspens failure to respond to Mrs B will have caused her distress and 
inconvenience. Following her early August email she doesnt appear to have had a response 
from Aspen until 21 October and that email in itself didnt fully address the points she was 
raising. I think that will all have caused her unnecessary uncertainty at what was a difficult 
time given the ongoing legal action she needed to prepare for.  But having taken all of that 
into account I think the £500 our investigator recommended (and which Aspen has now 
agreed to pay) is a reasonable way of recognising the impact on Mr and Mrs B of what 
happened as a result of what it got wrong.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Aspen Insurance UK Limited will need to put things 
right by paying Mr and Mrs B £500. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 
2022. 
James Park
Ombudsman