DRN-3836155
The complaint
Mr Y has a series of complaints linked to Nationwide Building Societys decision to close his 
accounts.
What happened
Nationwide wrote to Mr Y in August 2020, telling him theyd decided to close his current, 
savings and credit card accounts. They said he had until October to withdraw his money, 
repay his overdraft and repay his credit card. 
Mr Y was surprised by this. He didnt feel hed done anything to justify this sort of action. He 
complained. Nationwide responded in November. They didnt really explain why theyd 
closed Mr Ys accounts. But they noted the terms said they could if they gave him notice. 
Mr Y argued against this, feeling that the agreement for his credit card didnt allow 
Nationwide to end it unless hed done something to breach its terms. This appears to have 
led to an agreement Mr Y would repay the credit through the cards usual minimum 
payments. But he couldnt make new purchases, and the account would close when paid off. 
Some complaints then followed about issues with payments and direct debits. Some were 
upheld by Nationwide, and some werent. In May 2022, Nationwide wrote to Mr Y and told 
him that  because of the complaints  they were going to end the credit card agreement. 
They felt the relationship between them and Mr Y had irretrievably broken down. 
Mr Y was very upset by this, and complained. In response, Nationwide noted theyd not 
taken the existing agreement about repaying the credit card into account when they wrote to 
him in May 2022. They said theyd stick with the old agreement for Mr Y to continue making 
at least the minimum payment towards the card. They also offered Mr Y £68.75 
compensation for the upset caused and some phone call costs. 
Unsatisfied with this, Mr Y brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint, noting that Nationwide had agreed thered been a service failing in May 2022. He 
felt more needed to be done to acknowledge the emotional impact this had on Mr Y. So he 
said the compensation should be increased by £100. 
This was accepted by Mr Y and Nationwide, and a payment was arranged. Unfortunately, 
Mr Y made a mistake in the account number the payment was to go to. Nationwide made the 
payment, but it wasnt received by Mr Y. Nationwide have tried to recover the payment. But 
Mr Y felt this wasnt reasonable, and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
The complaint has therefore come to me for a formal decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree Nationwide havent acted reasonably, and should do more to 
acknowledge the impact thats had on Mr Y. 
I can see Mr Y complained in 2020 about his accounts being closed without a suitable 
reason. I note Nationwide responded at the time, and in January 2021 explained to Mr Y that 
he had six months to bring his complaint to us. Mr Y came to us in July 2022. As he didnt 
bring that original complaint to us within the six-month time limit, Im not going to consider 
the actions in 2020 in my decision here. 
But the complaint about what happened in May 2022 did come to us in time. On that matter, 
I find it unreasonable Nationwide tried to close Mr Ys credit card account at that point. 
I appreciate Nationwides view about their relationship with Mr Y following his complaints. 
But the credit card terms  specifically those in section 10(b)  dont list that as one of the 
reasons they might then use for closing his account and demanding early repayment. 
Had Nationwide acted in line with the terms of the credit agreement, they wouldnt have tried 
to close the credit card account for the reason they used in May 2022. That would have 
meant Mr Y wouldnt have had to contact them  and ultimately complain  before the 
agreement could continue to run fairly. That added upset and inconvenience should be 
recognised, even if it cant now be undone. 
Putting things right
Ive read Mr Ys correspondence with Nationwide and us. Hes clearly upset by the way 
Nationwide have treated him. I can understand why he feels that way. Their treatment of him 
hasnt been fair, and their responses to date dont seem to fully appreciate that. 
I agree with our investigator that the way to recognise this is to have Nationwide pay a 
higher amount of compensation to Mr Y. Putting a financial amount on an emotional impact 
isnt an exact science. But Ive factored in that Mr Y didnt actually have to pay his credit card 
back at short notice. Nor did the suggestion that he should continue for a long period. 
Ive decided the extra £100 our investigator suggested is right, given the factors above. So  
for this complaint  the compensation paid to Mr Y should total £168.75. 
But itd be unfair not to acknowledge that Nationwide have already made this payment to the 
account number Mr Y gave them. I find it reasonable that Nationwide are trying to recover 
this payment before making a new one to Mr Ys correct bank account details. Until 
Nationwide recover that money, I find it fair they dont have to pay it a second time, to Mr Y. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ys complaint about Nationwide Building Society. I direct 
Nationwide to pay Mr Y whatever they recover from the £168.75 payment already made to 
the account number Mr Y previously gave them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman