DRN-2654300
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) wrongly settled a third
party claim and pursued the excess, wrongly referred the resulting excess to a debt
collection agency, cancelled his motor insurance policy and also deprived him of a no claims
discount.
What happened
Mr S took out a car insurance policy in November 2017 through an agent, underwritten by
Calpe but branded as XS Direct. Mr Ss original complaint referred to his insurance agent
as well as XS Direct, however the essence of the complaint was to do with the actions of XS
Direct (Calpe). For ease of reference therefore, I will refer to Calpe throughout this
decision.
Mr S was involved in an accident in a supermarket car-park in January 2018. Shortly after
the accident, Calpe reminded Mr S that the policy carried an excess of £3,000 and that Mr S
was potentially liable for any costs incurred in settling any third-party claim. A third-party
claim was then made against Mr S which was paid out in full by Calpe. Calpe then asked Mr
S to pay the excess.
In a further letter, Calpe referred to previous communications and confirmed to Mr S that it
had settled the third-party claim and it made the point that it had to do so regardless of
whether the other driver had a driving licence; as we insured your car at the time. Mr S did
not pay the excess and Calpe chased the payment.
Calpe sent a letter in June 2018 advising Mr S that an excess of £2,592.23 was due within
14 days and that the accident had been recorded as a fault claim.
Mr S refused to pay the excess amount and the policy was cancelled. Mr S disagreed with
Calpes decisions and did not think that Calpe should have accepted liability, should not
have asked him to pay the excess, should not have cancelled his policy, should not have
chased the sum of £2,592.23 as a debt and should have awarded him a no claims bonus for
the policy period.
In its final response letter, Calpe stated; Your solicitor called us in July 2018 and did not
pursue the matter further as you admitted hitting a Third Party. Even though the Third Party
did not have a licence we had to settle the claim. Mr S was dissatisfied with this response
and he wrote to the Financial Ombudsman Service as a result.
There had initially been some confusion in relation to the January 2018 accident in question
and a subsequent accident involving Mr S, however once the misunderstanding had been
resolved, the Services Investigator thought that Calpe had acted within its policy terms and
did not think that it had acted unfairly or unreasonably, although he fully understood that
£2,592.23 was a large amount of money for Mr S to find.
The Investigator said; it would be extremely difficult for your insurer to dispute liability as
you said you reversed into the third partys vehicle and that your insurer would have to settle
this claim if you were deemed to be at fault under the terms and conditions of your policy.
He also said that; as your insurers made a payment to the third partys insurersI cant ask
them to re-instate your no claims discount either.
Mr S did not accept this view. Mr S felt that no-one had listened to his concerns and that his
insurers had demonstrated a lack of integrity and fairness and felt that he should not have
received debt collection letters. He also felt that full comprehensive car insurance policy
should have covered his vehicle regardless of the circumstances and that his insurers
should have paid out immediately and then attempted to recover this amount from the
uninsured driver.
As Mr S remained unhappy, this matter was passed to me for decision and I therefore
looked at the case again in my role as Ombudsman.
My findings differed in certain respects from our Investigators and so I issued a provisional 
decision and gave both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out 
below; -
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ss accident and the financial difficulties that he says this has
caused for him.
There are five key elements for me to consider. Firstly, the question of liability, secondly
Calpes request for Mr S to pay the excess amount, thirdly Calpe chasing £2,592.23 as a
debt, fourthly the cancellation of the policy by Calpe and the implications of that and lastly
the question of no award of a no claims bonus. Ive carefully looked at the terms of the policy
which Mr S took out with Calpe in each case.
Looking firstly at the question of liability, we dont decide which party is to blame for causing
an accident. Thats something which it is more appropriate for a court to look at. We do
however consider whether an insurer acted in line with its policy terms and whether it acted
fairly and reasonably in coming to its decisions.
Like most motor policies, Mr Ss policy allows Calpe to settle claims as it sees fit; The
Underwriters will also exchange information with other parties involved with the incident or
claim and to [sic] settle any claim or part of the claim without reference to the Policyholder.
That means the insurer doesnt require Mr Ss consent to decide how to settle a claim and it
can make a decision he disagrees with. I can still consider if that decision is fair and
reasonable however.
Ive noted that, following the accident, Calpe wrote to Mr S and asked the question; Can you
please confirm if you were involved in an accident and what happened?, Mr Ss handwritten
response in his otherwise typed letter was; I was parking my car reversing in a gap
and accidentally scratched the other drivers car  it was a small scratch. Calpe paid the
third party claim on the basis of this admission. Mr S says he did not think that they should
have done so, as he understood that the third party had no licence or insurance cover.
Calpe accepted liability in the light of Mr Ss response to its early enquiries and in its final
response, informed Mr S that his solicitor had called Calpe in July 2018 and that he did not
pursue the matter further due to the admission. Calpes records show that Mr Ss solicitor
agreed that a lack of licence was irrelevant to the insurance matter. The records also show
that Calpe were corresponding with an insurer acting on behalf of the third party.Ive carefully considered what Mr S says. As hed confirmed that he was responsible for
reversing into the third partys vehicle, I can understand why Calpe accepted that Mr S was
at fault and accepted liability. I therefore consider that this was a fair and reasonable
response by Calpe. I also accept that Calpe had to consider and deal with the claim,
regardless of the licence issue and I cant say that its decision to do so was unfair or
unreasonable in the circumstances.
With regard to the second matter, Ive considered whether the excess amount of £3,000 was
unreasonable and Ive looked at the terms of the policy. The insurance policy had an all
sections excess of £3,000 for all drivers, which applied whether there was a liability to a
third party or accidental damage. The insurance policy document stated: We hope to
provide you with all the cover you need at a price you will be happy to pay. We do this by
asking you to pay a larger excess of the first part of the claim which is shown on your
schedule of insurance. By you agreeing to pay this amount in the event of any claim even
where there is no damage or claim to your own vehicle, we can provide you with a cheaper
premium for your motor insurance.
The policy also makes it clear; When the Underwriters make payments to settle such claims
on your Policy, we will send a letter informing you of the points made and request payment
up to the Excess amount within 14 days of the date of the letter is issued. The excess figure
of £2,592.23 is clearly a significant amount and Mr S did not consider that he should have to
pay this sum demanded by Calpe.
The excess amount of £3,000 appears clearly at the bottom of the insurance policy however.
When Mr S purchased his policy, Im afraid that he accepted the terms which included the
condition that he was financially responsible for all costs up to £3,000. In this case, the costs
amounted to £2,592.23.
In my view, Calpe havent made a mistake, as theyve followed the terms and conditions of
the insurance policy. The policy made it clear when the excess would be payable, when a
policy would be cancelled and when any outstanding amount would be referred to debt
collectors.
The amount of £2,592.23 was made up of the repair costs of the third-party vehicle and the
cost of a hire vehicle which the third party needed to use whilst repairs were taking place
and these two amounts have been clearly itemised and were a direct result of the accident. I
cant say that Calpe has acted unreasonably in settling these costs and requesting Mr S to
pay the excess in these circumstances.
In relation to the third issue, Mr S considered that it was unreasonable for his insurers to
have instructed a debt collection agency to pursue the excess amount. The policy booklet
makes it clear that non-payment will result in this action; We will pass this matter over to
Our debt collection agent with instructions to recover the amount due. Calpe issued
reminders before the matter was ultimately forwarded to a debt collection company.
Once a debt arises, unfortunately debt collection letters inevitably follow. I cant say that
Calpe has acted unreasonably in requesting Mr S to pay the excess in the light of the
position regarding fault. I therefore conclude that Calpe acted within the policy terms and did
so fairly and reasonably.
On the fourth issue, the policy states under a clear heading as to consequences of failure to
pay or re-pay an excess amount; In the event payment is not received within that 14 day
period, we or the Underwriters reserve the right to immediately invoke the cancellation
clause on your Policy and your Policy will be cancelled after a further 7 days. The policy
was cancelled in July 2018.Although Calpe was following the terms and conditions of the policy, its not necessarily the
case that an insurer acts fairly and reasonably in doing so and Ive therefore looked at the
surrounding circumstances of this case. As long as the policy holder continues to pay the
insurance premiums, wed usually expect the policy to continue despite refusal to pay the
excess. Mr S says that he had to pay £148.56 extra for his new policy as a result of the
cancellation. This is not surprising as most insurers treat a previous cancellation as
unfavourable and is likely to have impacted on the price of his new premium.
Its my view that it was unfair for Calpe to cancel the policy for a debt in relation to the
excess. The policy premium was up to date and Calpe had other ways of recovering the
excess debt rather than using the extreme measure of cancelling Mr Ss insurance policy.
In the circumstances, I consider that Calpe should refund Mr Ss premium on a pro-rata
basis for the short period of time between the date of cancellation and the date on which the
policy was due to end. I also think that its fair for all references to cancellation of the policy
to be removed from Mr Ss record and Calpe should now provide Mr S with a letter to say
that his policy was cancelled in error. Mr S can then present this letter to his new or future
insurer so that they may arrange any appropriate adjustment to on-going or future premiums.
I cannot therefore say that Calpe acted fairly or reasonably in cancelling the policy.
Finally, I have looked at Mr Ss complaint that he was not awarded a no claims bonus by
Calpe. The policy does not specifically refer to the impact of cancellation on any no claims
bonus. Mr S says that as he did not consider that Calpe should have paid out on the policy,
charged the excess, cancelled his policy and that this went on to affect his no claims
discount and that it should not have done.
Calpe says that if insurers receive a claim from a third party or they pay out on a policy and
cant recover their costs from the third party it will inevitably impact on the bonus. They also
say that; ..there was a fault claim made on your policy, so even had your policy ran for a full
year you would not have earned any No Claims Bonus.
Ive looked at the chain of events carefully and the statement of facts which formed the basis
of Mr Ss insurance agreement with Calpe. It shows that in November 2017 that a nil no
claims bonus applied at that point. In view of the conclusions which I have reached on the
first four matters and, regardless of the fact that the policy was cancelled in error, I consider
that its inevitable that a no claims bonus would have been unavailable for the year of the
accident. I cant agree that Calpe have acted unfairly or unreasonably therefore in this
respect.
I know that Mr S may be somewhat disappointed with my preliminary decision on many
elements of his complaint and that his heartfelt dissatisfaction has meant that he has spent a
considerable amount of his time and energy in trying to obtain a different outcome. Ive
considered his views and his evidence very carefully however in coming to this conclusion. I
do hope however that this provisional decision will enable Mr S to move forward and to place
this episode behind him.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint, and this is in respect of
the fourth aspect of the matter which relates to cancellation of his insurance policy for non-
payment of the excess debt.
I therefore intend to require Calpe to; -- Refund Mr Ss premium on a pro-rata basis from the date of cancellation, within 28
days of his acceptance of the Final Decision*.
- Issue a letter to Mr S which he may share with his current and future insurers to
confirm that his policy with Calpe was cancelled in error.
- To pay compensation to Mr S in the sum of £250 for the extra cost, distress and
inconvenience caused to Mr S in relation to the fourth element of his complaint, again
within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision*.
*If Calpe pays later than this date, it must also pay interest on the compensation to the date
of payment at 8% a year simple interest.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Calpe did not agree with my partial up-hold decision, believing that their policy 
terms and conditions were clear in stating that failure to pay an excess debt would lead to 
policy cancellation.
Mr S responded with a detailed submission, re-emphasising several elements from his 
original complaint. In particular, Mr S has raised concerns regarding the following matters; 
Mr S was of the view that there is a police marker against his name and that this has 
influenced this Service, Mr S remains of the view that he is entitled to a no claims bonus. He 
believes that the third-party was not insured and that he should not have lost out as a result. 
Mr S also believes that in conversation with and correspondence from Calpe, he has 
received contradictory messages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and additional submissions and documents 
supplied by Calpe and Mr S to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Turning first to the points raised by Mr S in his response to my provisional decision, I have 
no knowledge or evidence of any police marker against Mr S in relation to this matter and 
Mr Ss reference to this has formed no part in my deliberations and decision-making.
The preliminary decision has dealt with the question of no claims bonus. When Mr S took out 
insurance with Calpe, his application indicated that his previous no claims bonus was nil. In 
the year of his accident, there was clearly a claim on Mr Ss policy, although I appreciate that 
Mr S does not feel that Calpe should have paid out on that policy. In the circumstances, a 
bonus would not have been available for that year either. Im satisfied that Calpe has not 
acted unfairly in the circumstances and was reflecting the factual position as to no claims 
bonus.
Mr S also felt that the third party was not insured and that he should not therefore have lost 
out as a result. He felt that Calpe should have liaised with the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB) 
and that this would have produced a different result. As explained in my preliminary decision 
however, as Mr S had provided an honest account to Calpe that he had reversed into the 
third party vehicle and Calpe were then obliged to settle the third party claim. It is 
unfortunately the case that MIB would not be able to assist in such circumstances. Finally, in relation to the telephone conversation with and correspondence from Calpe, I 
consider that there had been a degree of confusion in relation to two accidents in which Mr S 
was involved in 2018. The first accident which is the subject of this complaint took place in 
January 2018 and for which Mr S accepted fault. The second took place in February 2018, 
was treated as a non-fault event and involved an un-insured third party. I believe this is the 
reason why Mr S considers that he received contradictory messages at the time. I am 
satisfied that the position is now clear however and that the preliminary decision to partially 
uphold Mr Ss complaint is the correct one.
As to Calpes on-going concern about my decision to partially up-hold Mr Ss complaint, they 
say that their terms and conditions were sufficiently clear that non-payment of a debt in 
relation to the excess will lead to cancellation. I have acknowledged that the terms and 
conditions are clear. Our Services approach to this however, is that we dont think its fair, 
regardless of the clarity of policy terms, to cancel a policy for a debt that isnt related to the 
policy premiums.
In conclusion, I do sympathise with the financial and emotional difficulties which Mr S has 
suffered during the course of the past two years as a result of his accident. I also recognise 
that Calpe consider that their terms and conditions as to the circumstances in which they will 
cancel a policy are very clear.
In conclusion however, neither response has altered my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision, apart from adding the 
requirement for Calpe to amend its systems in relation to the cancellation error. I know that 
neither Mr S nor Calpe will be entirely satisfied by this decision. I am nevertheless of the 
view that this represents a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint, and this is in respect of
the fourth aspect of the matter which relates to cancellation of his insurance policy for non-
payment of the excess debt.
I therefore intend to require Calpe to; -
- Refund Mr Ss premium on a pro-rata basis from the date of cancellation, within 28
days of his acceptance of the Final Decision*.
- Amend its systems and issue a letter to Mr S which he may share with his current and 
future insurers to confirm that his policy with Calpe was cancelled in error.
- To pay compensation to Mr S in the sum of £250 for the extra cost, distress and
inconvenience caused to Mr S in relation to the fourth element of his complaint, again
within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision*.
*If Calpe pays later than this date, it must also pay interest on the compensation to the date
of payment at 8% a year simple interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Services Ombudsman, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9th April 2021.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman