The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that her insurers, Royal Sun Alliance (RSA) have declined her claim for 
lost jewellery, covered under her policy of home contents insurance.  Mrs P is also unhappy 
by the way that the claim was investigated and how she was treated by the investigator who 
attended her home.  
What happened
Mrs P and her husband visited their daughter in 2018.  They stayed in a hotel.  One morning, 
a fire alarm was sounded and Mrs P and her husband had to leave their room.  Before she 
left, she took with her a small bag containing jewellery, important papers, a larger bag and 
her glasses.  She put those items into the larger bag and went to the fire meeting point.  She 
lost the small bag containing the jewellery, which she believed dropped when she removed 
her glasses from the large bag.  She reported the matter to the police and the hotel but no 
jewellery at that time was found. She made a claim under her policy, for some lost pieces of 
jewellery.  After the claim had been lodged, she increased the number of items of jewellery 
lost, which increased the value of the claim. 
RSA appointed independent loss adjusters, who returned the claim to RSA due to the high 
value.  RSA then appointed their internal loss adjuster and investigator who separately 
visited Mrs P at her home.  
The investigator asked Mrs P a number of questions and took a statement from her during 
the meeting.  Mrs P signed this statement as a truthful account. Mrs P confirmed that she 
had not made any claims in the previous 10 years that have either been successful, 
withdrawn or unsuccessful.  Mrs P also confirmed that she had not lost any jewellery in the 
past 5  10 years and that she had put a lot of thought and consideration when she selected 
DRN-1065215the jewellery to take with her on her trip.  She also stated that the items that she then lost 
had never been lost at any point in the past.  
RSA continued with their investigations and found that there had been a claim made in 2014 
for lost jewellery, in similar circumstances as the current claim.  The previous insurers had 
declined the claim due to Mrs P failing to provide further information.  RSA were also 
concerned that Mrs P had increased the number of items of jewellery that she said had been 
lost and had requested a cash pay out rather than replacement of the lost items.  RSA 
identified inconsistencies with the answers Mrs P gave and as a result, RSA refused to pay 
out her claim.  
Mrs P appealed to RSAs complaint specialist.  She stated that she believed that the 2014 
claim had not been recorded as she found the items.  She had been given permission from 
the investigator, to add to the list of missing items and so she did.  She felt that the 
investigator was rude and discriminated against her, especially as she suffers from ill health, 
which she felt, affected her during the fire alarm incident. She commented that 4 pieces of 
jewellery had been returned, as she had left a return address label and stamps in the bag 
and so this was proof that they had gone missing.  Also, the value of the claim had been 
reduced. 
Mrs P brought her complaint here and one of our investigators looked into it.  She found that 
there were a number of inconsistencies that would have raised concerns for RSA and they 
were of a sufficient nature for RSA to decline her claim.  Our investigator did not uphold the 
complaint..  Mrs P did not agree with our investigator and the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, I had to assess what evidence RSA were provided with and obtained 
before arriving at their decision to decline Mrs Ps claim.  I have also considered all the 
evidence from Mrs P. 
Having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, when a claim is made it is for the 
claimant to evidence their loss.  It is then up to the insurer to decide whether the evidence is 
sufficient to settle the claim.  RSA raised their concerns regarding the circumstances of the 
claim and the failure to disclose a claim made in 2014.  Although I accept that the reason Mrs P brought the large quantity of jewellery with her was 
to show/gift her daughter or wear it, none of this was done.  Mrs P in her signed witness 
statement said that she put a lot of thought and consideration into the items of jewellery she 
took with her.   RSA highlighted this to be an inconsistency as they felt that it would be 
reasonable to anticipate that Mrs P would know what items she had taken rather than adding 
additional items after the claim had been made .  
 
Mrs P stated that during the fire alarm, she removed her glasses from the larger bag when 
the smaller bag containing the jewellery became lost.  It would be reasonable to assume that 
had the jewellery bag fallen, someone would have heard or felt it.  I understand that Mrs P is 
losing hearing in her left ear and this may have affected her ability to respond.  But, given 
the sentimental value of the items and their worth and that it was Mrs Ps intention to show 
them to her daughter, following the evacuation, at no time during the rest of the stay, did Mrs 
P feel it necessary to check their whereabouts.  So I can see how RSA would have seen his 
as an issue.  
 
I have found that at the point of taking out the policy in 2017, Mrs P was asked how many 
previous claims or incidents had been made within the past 5 years, to which she  answered 
0.  The RSA investigator further asked Mrs P whether there had been any other claims for 
loss of jewellery that had either been successful, withdrawn or unsuccessful within the past 
10 years.  Again Mrs P answered no. She was also asked if she had lost any jewellery in the 
past 5  10 years.  Again she answered no. She also confirmed that none of the jewellery on 
the list had been lost at any point in the past.  Mrs P had now been asked on a number of 
occasions whether she had made claims in the past.  On each occasion she said no. Given 
the number of times that she was asked questions regarding previous claims, it would not be 
unreasonable to assume that this would have jogged her memory.  I can see why RSA found 
this to be inconsistent, especially as RSA found that she had made a claim of a similar 
nature in 2014 and that jewellery that was on that claim was also listed as lost in this claim.  
Given these inconsistencies, it is not unreasonable for RSA to have seen this as an issue as 
well. 
 
I have been given a copy of Mrs Ps policy that contains a clause relating to information 
gathering. If RSA finds that any relevant information is withheld in order for them to accept a 
claim they can refuse to pay the whole of the claim, which is what they have done.  Our 
investigator asked whether RSA would have provided cover had they been made aware of 
the previous claim in 2014 and why they continued to cover Mrs P until renewal.  I have seen 
correspondence in which RSA  have indicated that they would not have offered cover had 
they known about the previous claim and although they allowed cover to continue, this would 
only be until renewal on the basis of Mrs Ps co-operation. On this basis, I can see how RSA 
acted reasonably and fairly towards Mrs P.   This leads to the final point regarding Mrs Ps 
treatment.   
 
I understand that Mrs P felt that she was treated unfairly by RSAs investigator.  I have had 
an opportunity to read through the evidence provided by both sides.  I can see no evidence 
to suggest that the investigator treated Mrs P unfairly or was prejudiced towards her.  I can 
appreciate that some questions may be quite stressful, especially given the health issues.  
But RSA investigators role is to reasonably and fairly gather as much information as possible in order to support a decision.  I can understand that Mrs P felt upset when she had 
provided everything that was asked and her claim was rejected. But I am not satisfied that 
her treatment was harsh and I am afraid that there are no reasonable grounds that I can ask 
RSA to do any more here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  I find that there were a number of 
inconsistencies that would have raised issues with RSA to decline your claim.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my 
decision before 1 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman