DRN-1483967
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are upset by their insurers UK Insurance Ltd (UKI) handling of their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs P had a leak in their home. They paid for the repair of the 
leak, as this wasnt covered by their policy. They also contacted UKI to make a claim. UKI 
told them that they were covered for the escape of water. But it didnt offer alternative 
accommodation. 
Apart from the claim being registered, nothing further happened until Mr and Mrs Ps 
daughter (Mrs F) contacted UKI around 10 days later. She enquired if there was alternative 
accommodation cover and it was at this stage that UKI confirmed they should have been 
offered alternative accommodation. This meant that they had been without heating or water 
for at least 10 days before alternative accommodation was provided. 
Mr and Mrs P were in poor health and elderly. They stayed in alternative accommodation for 
a number of weeks whilst the repairs were taking place. 
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs Ps daughter complained to UKI for the poor level of service Mr 
and Mrs P had received. UKI admitted that there had been shortcomings in the service it 
provided and offered £400 compensation for this. It further offered £100 compensation for 
the incorrect information it gave to Mr P and their daughter was offered £25 compensation 
for the phone calls she had to make. 
Mrs P and her daughter were unhappy with this offer and didnt think this was enough to 
reflect the shortcomings in UKIs service. Sadly, Mr P had since passed away. Mrs Ps 
daughter felt UKIs handling of the claim had had a significant impact on her parents health. 
So Mrs P brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that UKI had acted fairly. He said that 
UKI provided alternative accommodation which was suitable. He said that there had been a 
number of errors made by UKI, which it accepted. But the level of compensation offered was 
in line with the compensation this service would generally offer and so there was no more 
that he could ask them to do. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint.  I can understand this is likely to come 
as a disappointment to Mrs P but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Like our investigator I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether UKI acted 
unfairly in its treatment of Mr and Mrs P. I have had sight of their policy document and I have 
taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps health issues and the effect Mrs P has told us UKIs 
handling of the claim had on them.
UKI has accepted that its customer service and care fell well below the standards it has set. 
It admitted that:
Poor advice was given to Mr and Mrs P.
Alternative accommodation shouldve been offered sooner.
There was poor communication.
Mrs F had to call a number of times to progress the claim.
 For this, UKI paid a total compensation of £525. 
UKI admitted that it was aware that Mr and Mrs Ps home was uninhabitable but failed to 
spot that they needed alternative accommodation at the outset. Based on the evidence that I 
have seen, I agree. It was because of the intervention by Mr and Mrs Ps daughter and not 
UKI that led to the move into alternative accommodation.  So I think that UKI shouldve acted 
more quickly, given the health issues that Mr and Mrs P faced.
What I have seen is that once Mr and Mrs P had moved into the alternative accommodation, 
UKI ensured that extra allowances such as the payment for car parking and meals were 
provided. Also, Mr and Mrs Ps daughter said that both her parents were feeling much better 
and were comfortable. So all in all, I think that the alternative accommodation provided was 
suitable. 
I have next considered whether the length of time taken for the repairs was too long. Based 
on the evidence, the repairs took time for a number of reasons. First, the lack of 
staff/contractors available over the Christmas and New Year period. Second, the presence 
of asbestos that was found in the property, slowed things down a bit. I think that the reasons 
given were reasonable and the length of time that the repairs took were appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
All in all UKI accepted the service provided wasnt up to scratch and thats why it offered 
compensation. The compensation was for the handling of the claim and the delay of around 
10 days when Mr and Mrs P were without heating or water. 
I understand that Mrs P would like an increase in the compensation that UKI offered due to 
the affect on their health. Unfortunately, there simply isnt the medical evidence to make a 
finding that UKI played any role in a deterioration in Mr and Mrs Ps health. 
Our awards arent designed to punish or fine financial businesses. £525 is in line with 
awards made in similar circumstances. So I think that the level of compensation offered was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman