DRN-2866548
The complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about an offer of compensation for a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Ms F says the offer made by AXA France IARD (AXA) doesnt 
properly compensate her.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint. So Ive referred to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Ms F applied for a store card in November 1995. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
Ms F complained to AXA about the sale of the policy. In October 2019 AXA wrote to Ms F. 
AXA agreed to uphold Ms Fs complaint. AXA offered Ms F £100 compensation for the     
mis-sale of the policy.
Unhappy with AXAs offer Ms F asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought the offer was fair. Ms F disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store card, wed normally 
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed then 
expect the business to compensate the consumer for the extra they paid because of the PPI.
But in order to do this a business needs to know the actual amounts the consumer spent on 
the store card as the PPI premiums are linked to the outstanding monthly balance.
In this case AXA isnt able to follow this approach as it has not got many detailed records of 
Ms Fs account. For example it only holds statement data from around 2006 onwards. I dont 
find this unusual or surprising as I wouldnt expect a business to retain detailed records 
indefinitely.
Where there is limited information about an account, and the premiums a consumer has 
been charged, wed expect a business to make reasonable assumptions based on 
information it does have. In Ms Fs case there is very little known data from the early years 
the account was open.
So AXA looked at other accounts where it does have a full set of information. And its looked 
at the levels of compensation it has paid to consumers where its been able to work out the 
amount it owes them accurately.
So AXA based Ms Fs offer of £100 on the average compensation it has paid consumers 
who held their PPI for a similar time. Wed usually consider this a fair approach in the 
absence of any other information.
AXA has shown us a screenshot of its internal records which show the account was opened 
with PPI in November 1995. The screenshot also shows that PPI policy was cancelled in 
March 1996. Which means the maximum number of premiums Ms F could have paid is three 
or four.
Bearing in mind the short length of time the PPI was active I think £100 is likely to be fair 
compensation.
I note that in AXAs letter to Ms F it mentioned that it knew the last premium amount that    
Ms F had paid. From experience I am aware that quite often, but not always, AXAs internal 
system retains a record of total premiums paid and the final premium. 
Our adjudicator asked AXA for details of the last premium. However AXA then told us that 
following a review of the case it had found that Ms F didnt actually pay any premiums at all. 
Ive seen a screen shot of the internal record showing that no premiums were paid. And I 
think this is likely to be accurate.
Understandably Ms F hasnt been able to provide us with any statements from 1995 or 1996.
Taking everything into account I think it is most likely the PPI was only present on Ms Fs 
account from  November 1995 to March 1996. And even if Ms F was charged PPI premiums 
between these dates I think £100 compensation is likely to reflect fair compensation for the 
premiums she would have paid plus interest for the time she would have been out of pocket.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think AXA France IARDs offer is fair 
and therefore I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman