DRN-4185702
The complaint
Mr C complains about the affordability of a hire purchase agreement provided by Advantage 
Finance Limited (Advantage). 
What happened
In April 2017 Mr C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Advantage. 
The agreement ran for 42 months, Mr C was required to make 41 monthly repayments of 
£270.56 and a final payment of £445.56. 
Mr C complained to Advantage. In summary he said the finance shouldve been deemed 
unaffordable as he had a rock bottom credit rating and around 15 payday loans and other 
loan accounts. He also said he had issues with gambling which negatively impacted his 
finances. 
Advantage looked into Mr Cs concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said 
appropriate checks had been made as to whether Mr C could afford the agreement and said 
the loan was affordable. 
Mr C remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because she didnt think there was 
enough evidence or information to suggest the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree and said Advantage should have done more to establish his financial 
situation at the time. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C has drawn parallels with other cases hes referred to this service, but Id 
like to point out that we consider each case on its own merits.  
Ill explain below why Ive decided Advantage dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Advantage to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
C would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
a. If it did, was the decision to then lend to Mr C fair?
b. If it didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr C about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check in order to understand how Mr C had managed his existing and previous finance 
arrangements. It also verified Mr Cs income via a payslip, confirmed his accommodation 
type, his employment and that he had no dependents. It used statistical data specific to Mr 
Cs location and household to estimate his likely expenditure on rent, utilities and council tax. 
Advantage also considered what would have been left over to cover other expenditure and 
made an allowance of around £1,700. It noted that even after the estimated expenses had 
been taken into account, Mr C would have had enough disposable income to afford monthly 
repayments up to £270.56.
I think Advantage made a reasonable assessment of Mr Cs likely expenditure and, whilst I 
accept Advantage didnt consider every individual expense Mr C was likely to incur, it had 
allowed around £1,700 for those expenses. I think this was a considerable amount of 
headroom after the main expenses of rent, utilities and council tax had been taken into 
consideration as well as his credit commitments. 
I dont think there was anything in Mr Cs credit file that would have given reason for concern 
and merited further checks. The credit file showed three active accounts with a total 
outstanding balance of approximately £1000  including one payday loan and one home 
credit loan. The credit file also showed some historical defaults, but Advantage has said it 
provides finance to customers who may have had historic financial problems and so this 
didnt impact its decision to lend. I dont find this to be unreasonable given the amount Mr C 
owed on the three accounts at the time was fairly low. And as highlighted above, the 
disposable income available to Mr C wouldve appeared to have allowed him to comfortably 
repay the outstanding balances on his three active accounts.  
Overall, Im satisfied that Advantage gathered a reasonable and proportionate amount of 
evidence and information to be able to adequately assess whether the agreement was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr C. And because of this I dont think Advantage acted 
unfairly when approving the finance application. 
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr C has said Advantage should have requested to review his bank statements when 
deciding whether or not to lend to him. He says if it did, it would have seen that he spent a 
lot of his disposable monthly income on gambling and he had several payday loans. 
I appreciate Advantage could have requested to review Mr Cs bank statements, but it isnt required to do so as part of its affordability checks. 
Ive reviewed Mr Cs bank statements and they do show Mr C spent some of his disposable 
income with gambling companies, as well as having multiple payday loans. I appreciate Mr C 
has indicated to us that this was a problem for him. But the question for me is whether 
Advantage would have been able to find that out if they requested further information from 
him at the time of lending.  
Im of the view the checks here were completed to a reasonable level without Mr C needing 
to show Advantage his bank statements. He used a payslip to demonstrate his income and 
Advantage relied on statistical data as well as a credit check to assess his affordability. Not 
all payday lenders supply credit reference agencies with lending information so I cant say 
Advantage has done anything wrong. I cant see anything in the results of these checks that 
wouldve given Advantage cause for concern and required it to carry out further checks so I 
think it acted fairly on the information it had.  
Without those bank statements, it would have been hard for Advantage to see the scale of 
Mr Cs spending on gambling or his other payday loans, but I cant see Mr C brought this to 
Advantages attention at any point or at the point he was applying for the finance.  
I can appreciate Mr C feels his spending on gambling was a factor in finding this agreement 
unaffordable. And as noted above, hes made reference to other similar cases hes brought 
to this service. But as Ive said, each case is looked at on its own merits and whilst Ive taken 
a similar approach in considering the circumstances of this complaint it doesnt necessarily 
mean the outcome will be the same. 
For reasons Ive explained I dont see that Advantage was required to carry out further 
checks than it did, so I find that Advantage didnt act unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman