DRN-4221478
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scrutton Bland Financial Services Limited (Scrutton Bland) didnt 
provide the ongoing advice service Mr C was paying for. Mr C says if his annual review had 
taken place when it shouldve done hed have been advised to mitigate his exposure to fixed 
interest investments. He also says that substantive advice about his pension asset weighting 
wasnt provided, despite written requests. 
What happened
The (second) investigator has issued a very detailed view, setting out the background to the 
complaint and his findings. Im not going to set everything out again here. But, in summary, 
Mr Cs service agreement with Scrutton Bland included an annual review, minimum twice 
yearly valuations and additional meetings by agreement. Annual reviews were held in May 
2019, March 2020 and April 2021. There was also a meeting in November 2021. 
Mr Cs concerns centre on what happened in 2022 following Scrutton Blands acquisition and 
merger which Mr C had been told about at the November 2021 meeting. Mr Cs existing 
adviser left Scrutton Bland in February 2022 and a new adviser was assigned to Mr C in 
March 2022. Mr C requested a meeting with the new adviser which was arranged for 28 April 
2022. Mr C subsequently cancelled the meeting  he was going to be travelling and he 
wanted to limit the possibility of contracting Covid which wouldve meant cancelling his travel 
plans. When Mr C returned an annual review pack had been issued (on 19 May 2022). It 
included a fact find which Mr C completed and returned to Scrutton Bland. There was an 
email exchange between Mr C and Scrutton Bland on 26 May 2022 to clarify Mr Cs income.
There was no further contact between Mr C and Scrutton Bland until Mr C complained to 
Scrutton Bland on 1 September 2022. Mr C said, other than an introductory conversation 
and a follow up letter on 22 March 2022, thered been no material contact and no service or 
advice had been given. He said it was nearly ten months since his half year review had been 
undertaken by the previous adviser and his full year review was now four months overdue 
which was unsatisfactory, particularly as the markets remained difficult and volatile, and his 
pension fund had fallen in value and charges continued to be deducted from services which 
hadnt been provided. 
There were some exchanges about Mr C having cancelled the meeting on 28 April 2022 and 
if things had been followed up after Mr C had returned the fact find in May 2022. Mr C met 
with his new adviser on 26 September 2022. Switching to a Discretionary Fund Management 
(DFM) arrangement was discussed. New risk profiling was undertaken. Mr C was currently 
assessed as risk level 3 but risk level 4 would have less bonds/gilts reliance. There was also 
some discussion about switching to cash but the adviser said he couldnt recommend that. 
The adviser said the risk profiles supported a move to risk level 4 or 5. Mr C wasnt 
comfortable with that, given the higher equities element.  
Scrutton Bland issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint on 4 October 2022, not 
upholding the complaint. It said a review meeting had been arranged for 28 April 2022 which 
Mr C had cancelled. Scrutton Bland had tried to contact Mr C but the review wouldve taken 
place if Mr C hadnt cancelled it. Mr C didnt accept what Scrutton Bland had said and 
responded the following day. There were further exchanges. Mr C also met further with the 
adviser on 10 October 2022. The next day, Mr C emailed his adviser instructing that his 
entire portfolio be switched to cash. Mr C told the adviser on 17 October 2022 that he was 
terminating his relationship with Scrutton Bland. 
Ive referred to events after the final response letter was issued largely for the sake of 
completeness because, as the investigator has explained, anything after that  such as what 
was said about switching to cash  is outside the scope of the current complaint. 
The investigators main findings were:
Prior to 2022 and the merger there was a set format for the annual review  a fact 
fine would be issued which Mr C would check and amend if necessary and return to 
Scrutton Bland. The annual review meeting would then be arranged. 
After Mr C received the new advisers introductory letter Mr C got in touch and 
requested a meeting. Mr C intended that to be an introductory meeting and to 
discuss his concerns about the departure of a number of senior personnel. Mr Cs 
new adviser was planning to carry out Mr Cs annual review at the meeting. It wasnt 
fair for Scrutton Bland to say that was the annual review meeting if Mr C hadnt been 
told that beforehand. 
Mr C accepted hed cancelled the meeting. Scrutton Bland had prepared 
documentation on the basis the meeting was an annual review meeting but that didnt 
seem to have been agreed between Mr C and Scrutton Bland and the format that 
had previously been adopted wasnt followed. A fact find was later issued and 
returned by Mr C. It was reasonable for him to have expected the same service as 
before  that an annual review would then be arranged. 
Scrutton Bland had emailed Mr C to confirm his income. Scrutton Bland shouldve 
asked Mr C then if he was ready to have the annual review. And, if Scrutton Bland 
had referred to rearranging it, Mr C wouldve confirmed he was unaware it had been 
arranged in the first place but a review wouldve been arranged anyway. But it was 
unfair for Scrutton Bland to say Mr C cancelled his annual review and shouldve got 
back in touch to rearrange. It seemed there were issues with the merger that were 
being ironed out and Mr Cs service was affected. Mr C had paid for a service he 
didnt receive. Scrutton Bland should refund all ongoing adviser charges from 
February 2022 to when Mr Cs relationship with Scrutton Bland ceased. 
Scrutton Bland didnt have a discretionary mandate. So changes in asset class and 
holdings had to be advised. But Scrutton Bland did undertake portfolio rebalancing. 
Scrutton Bland had said Mr Cs annual review was due on or around 12 February 
2022. If the annual review had taken place then, and allowing ten working days, it 
was fair to conclude that rebalancing wouldve taken place around 25 February 2022. 
Scrutton Bland should calculate if Mr C had suffered any financial loss by the 
portfolio not having been rebalanced then. A distress and inconvenience payment 
should also be made. 
As to whether any changes to Mr Cs holdings wouldve been recommended had the 
annual review been undertaken earlier, the April 2021 annual review meeting didnt 
recommend any changes. Mr Cs notes referred to the need to watch inflationary 
pressures and a possible switch out of bonds/fixed returns. They were reasonable 
matters for consideration but no formal recommendation was made and Mr Cs 
attitude to risk (ATR) remained as 3 out of 10. Mr Cs notes of the call in November 
2021 said no further action but with a watchful eye on inflation. 
There didnt appear to be any change to Mr Cs ATR, objectives or needs until 
September 2022 when Mr Cs ATR was assessed as 5 out of 10. There was no 
reason to recommend changes prior to then. A DFM arrangement had been 
mentioned but Mr C wasnt comfortable with the increased costs.  Scrutton Bland didnt advise moving to cash. Mr C couldve proceeded against 
advice. It seems thats what had happened. Scrutton Bland had facilitated Mr Cs 
instruction. Not proceeding with the same asset allocation was against Scrutton 
Blands advice  Scrutton Bland needed to conclude changes were in line with Mr Cs 
ATR, needs and objectives. There was no evidence any of that had altered 
considerably from the April 2021 review until the September 2022 meeting. 
Mr C accepted the investigators finding that Scrutton Bland had failed to provide the 
ongoing service he was paying for and the recommendation that all adviser fees should be 
reimbursed, plus a payment of £200 for the trouble and upset caused. But Mr C didnt think 
the rebalancing exercise would put him back in the position he ought to have been in. 
Essentially Mr Cs point was that changes to his portfolio wouldve been recommended to 
mitigate his exposure to bonds and gilts which advice Mr C wouldve accepted. Mr C referred 
to the meetings in April and November 2021 which highlighted the need to monitor future 
inflationary pressure giving rise to a possible need to switch out of bonds/fixed returns. By 
Q1 in 2022 it was evident that inflationary pressure was set to increase further.
The investigator had said Mr Cs annual review shouldve been undertaken in February 
2022. And that a significant move away from the original asset allocation wouldve required a 
recommendation based on Mr Cs needs, objectives and ATR. In September 2022 the new 
adviser, under an obligation to Know Your Client, undertook an ATR assessment and 
based on that recommended a change in risk profile to 5 (from 3). If the annual review had 
been done earlier, the same exercise wouldve been undertaken and the same 
recommendation made. So redress should be based on a move away from the original asset 
allocation having been recommended in February 2022. But Mr C didnt think it would be fair 
to adopt risk profile 5 and suggested 4 should be used  and that was the result of the risk 
profiling undertaken by his new advisers and adopted for his investments. 
We shared Mr Cs comments with Scrutton Bland. It accepted that communication appeared 
to be at the root of the issue regarding the meeting booked for 28 April 2022 which Mr C had 
cancelled. If that meeting had gone ahead, thered have been one of two outcomes: either 
an introductory meeting with a subsequent annual review meeting booked; or the annual 
review wouldve been completed. If the portfolio had been rebalanced in April 2022 in line 
with Mr Cs ATR (level 3), thered unlikely have been any significant change as the portfolio 
was already underweight in cash, gilts and bonds. 
Scrutton Bland had issued the annual review pack in May 2022 which historically had 
instigated the annual review. Scrutton Bland couldve contacted Mr C to rearrange the 
annual review but, as Mr C had said hed get in contact when he was ready to reschedule, it 
was left up to Mr C. Scrutton Bland added that it was aware of Mrs Cs recent diagnosis and 
so was respecting Mr Cs wishes in not contacting him. Mr C had previously got in contact if 
hed wanted to amend his portfolio asset allocation, such as switching significant sums to 
cash. Prior to the meeting in September 2022 he didnt raise any concerns about his 
portfolio. During that meeting Mr C completed a new ATR questionnaire resulting in a 
change in ATR from 3 to 5 and the adviser made recommendations accordingly. 
The investigator considered the further submissions before writing to Mr C and Scrutton 
Bland to say that his view hadnt changed and addressing some of the points made. The 
investigator said, as neither party had accepted his view, the matter would be referred to an 
ombudsman and asked for any further final comments. He shared Scrutton Blands 
comments with Mr C.
Mr C was very unhappy when he saw what Scrutton Bland had said about not wanting to 
contact Mr C given his wifes diagnosis. Mr C said Scrutton Bland had tried to use that as an 
excuse for not contacting Mr C between May and September 2022 which was upsetting and objectionable. Mr C said his wife wasnt diagnosed until mid/late June 2022. There was no 
contact between Mr C and Scrutton Bland between 26 May 2022 until Mr C complained on 1 
September 2022. So Scrutton Bland was unaware of Mrs Cs illness. Mr C wanted a full and 
genuine written apology to be made personally to his wife. 
Mr C made some other comments which, although Im not setting them out here, Ive taken 
into account in reaching my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings reached by the investigator and the reasons he 
gave why he was upholding the complaint. I dont have much to add to what the investigator 
has already said and which Ive summarised above.
The complaint centres on the fact that Mr Cs 2022 annual review didnt take place until late 
September 2022. The investigator carefully examined what happened after Mr Cs adviser 
had left and what Mr C would reasonably have understood to be the purpose of the meeting 
scheduled for 28 April 2022. I agree there was no reason why Mr C would or ought to have 
known that the new adviser intended to undertake Mr Cs annual review at that meeting. So 
Mr C wouldnt have known that, in cancelling the meeting  which had been arranged at his 
request  he was also cancelling his annual review. 
Particularly as, after Mr C had cancelled the meeting, he later received an annual review 
pack including a fact find which would normally signal that the annual review was to be 
scheduled. So when he returned the fact find Mr C wouldve thought the annual review 
would be arranged. And, as Mr C didnt know hed cancelled what was to be the annual 
review meeting, I dont see the onus was on Mr C to rearrange it. I also agree, if Scrutton 
Bland had asked Mr C if he was ready to rearrange when clarification of his income position 
was sought, Mr C wouldve confirmed he was and so the annual review wouldve been 
arranged. As the investigator said, both Mr C and Scrutton Bland wouldve been happy with 
that and things wouldnt have developed as they did. 
But that didnt happen and, as the situation didnt remedy itself, I need to consider what 
shouldve happened. Scrutton Bland has confirmed that Mr Cs annual review falls on or 
around 12 February each year. Scrutton Bland has argued that in previous years it was later 
and it seems that was Mr Cs expectation too  hes said he was expecting the annual 
review to take place in May 2022, six months after the November 2021 meeting. 
But, as Scrutton Bland has confirmed that Mr Cs annual review was due in mid February, I 
think its correct to take that as the starting point in looking at what Mr Cs position wouldve 
been if Scrutton Bland had acted as it shouldve done. It seems that the original advisers 
departure (whether brought about in conjunction with the merger or otherwise) coincided 
with when Mr Cs annual review shouldve taken place and so impacted on the service Mr C 
received. If that service had been seamless, Mr Cs annual review wouldve taken place in 
mid February 2022. 
I agree with the investigator that Scrutton Bland should reimburse Mr C for all ongoing 
adviser charges from February 2022 to when Scrutton Bland ceased to be Mr Cs advisers  
on the basis that Mr C was paying for a service he wasnt receiving. And I agree that Mr Cs 
portfolio shouldve been rebalanced following the annual review and that the ten day window 
the investigator suggested for that to have been done is reasonable. I also agree the 
calculation should be up until the point when Mr Cs portfolio was disinvested. Mr C accepts the investigators findings on those issues. But Mr Cs position is, if his annual 
review had taken place earlier, he shouldve been advised, following through on the 
discussions in April and November 2021, to limit his exposure to bonds/gilts given the 
continuing inflationary pressures. Mr C refers to the annual review and the new assessment 
of his ATR taking place around April/May 2022 or, at the latest, August 2022. But, as Ive 
said, my starting point is that the annual review shouldve happened in February 2022. So 
thats the date Im looking at in deciding if changes wouldve resulted had the annual review 
been done then.  
In a situation such as this, where what wouldve have happened if things had been done 
correctly isnt agreed, we reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  that is what we 
consider is likely to have happened, taking into account the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
It can be very difficult deciding, after the event and without relying on the benefit of hindsight, 
whether different investment decisions wouldve been made. But, from what Ive seen, I dont 
think it necessarily follows that Mr Cs position in February 2022 wouldve been the same as 
it was some seven months later. I agree with the investigator that, if the annual review had 
taken place in February 2022, which I note was only some three months after the meeting in 
November 2021, the advice wouldve likely remained the same  that Mr C should continue 
with his existing, long term, investment strategy. 
I note what Mr C says about his new adviser needing to Know Your Client and what 
Scrutton Bland has said about the responsibility of an adviser to reassess a clients 
circumstances and requirements, attitude to risk and capacity for loss on a regular basis. 
And that, given the change in adviser, it was appropriate for the new adviser to ask Mr C to 
complete a new ATR questionnaire. But the issue is whether theres sufficient evidence to 
say Mr Cs position in September 2022 was broadly the same as it wouldve been some 
seven months earlier and, in particular, that a change to his ATR wouldve been recorded in 
February 2022, leading to new recommendations. 
Like the investigator, I think that, by September 2022, Mr Cs position had changed. From 
the portfolio values hes quoted, it seems that by then his fund value had fallen. Although 
there had been some fluctuations, between April and August 2022, the value had remained 
relatively stable at somewhere above £1,600,000. But by September 2022 the value was just 
over £1,500,000. I think that may have led Mr C to think further about his investment strategy 
going forwards and prompted a move towards trying to generate more growth. I note that 
even then there was some further debate about exactly what risk level Mr C should adopt 
and whether he should switch to cash, a move which he later made, against Scrutton 
Blands advice. That may be the subject of another complaint so Im not going to comment 
here other than to say that, even once the annual review had taken place in September 
2022, Mr Cs position appears to have been somewhat undecided. 
All in all I think theres insufficient evidence for me to say changes to Mr Cs portfolio 
shouldve been recommended in February 2022 had the annual review taken place then. Id 
perhaps add that, despite my finding that the onus was on Scrutton Bland to arrange Mr Cs 
annual review and Scrutton Bland failed to do so, it was open to Mr C to get in contact with 
Scrutton Bland if he considered that anything needed to be discussed urgently. In saying 
that Im very mindful of Mrs Cs diagnosis in mid/late June 2022 but Mr C couldve got in 
contact before then if there was anything of particular concern.  
That brings me to Mr Cs point about his wifes illness. I can understand this is a very 
sensitive issue. And that Mr C and his wife would rightly feel very aggrieved if there was any 
suggestion that Scrutton Bland is now saying it didnt get in touch because it was aware that Mrs C was unwell if Scrutton Bland didnt or couldnt have known that at the time. Mr C has 
explained that his wife wasnt diagnosed until mid/late June 2022. I think hell have been 
acutely aware of the timing and so it would then follow, as there seems to have been no 
contact between 26 May and 1 September 2022, that Scrutton Bland couldnt have known, 
during that period, that Mrs C was unwell. But I recognise that Scrutton Blands comment 
was made sometime after the event. It can sometimes be difficult to pinpoint exactly when, 
what is by then known, the particular knowledge was first acquired. So there may have been 
some confusion on Scrutton Blands part. 
In theory, I can direct a business to take steps such as apologising. But Im often reluctant to 
do that, particularly where, as here, a genuine apology is sought. In my view, unless an 
apology is freely given, it may simply be a forced token gesture and in effect meaningless. 
I think Scrutton Bland should re examine its records carefully and if it now accepts that it was 
unaware until a later date that Mrs C was unwell, write to Mrs C confirming that and 
apologising for any suggestion that any failure to contact Mr C between 26 May 2022 and 1 
September 2022 had anything to do with Mrs Cs health.  
All in all I agree with the investigators findings and the redress he suggested and which Ive 
adopted below. Ive add some directions to clarify how the redress should actually be paid. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr C fairly Scrutton Bland Financial Services Limited should:
Reimburse adviser fees from February 2022 to when Scrutton Bland Financial 
Services Limited ceased to be Mr Cs advisers. 
Calculate the notional value of Mr Cs portfolio if it was rebalanced on 25 February 
2022 and continued to the date of disinvestment. Thats the fair value which should 
then be compared with the actual value of Mr Cs portfolio at the date of 
disinvestment. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. 
Any loss should be paid into Mr Cs pension plan to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If compensation cant be paid into Mr Cs pension plan, it should be paid direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr C wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs current marginal rate of 
tax. For example, if Mr C is a basic rate tax payer, the reduction would equal 20%. 
However if hed have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. 
Pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Scrutton Bland Financial Services Limited must redress Mr C as Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman