DRN-1535802
 
Complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Services Limited collected a premium from his bank account 
in error. 
Background
Mr S held a Home Care plan with British Gas. Shortly before the plan was due to renew, Mr 
S called British Gas and let it know he wanted to cancel it. 
Unfortunately, British Gas was unable to action Mr Ss request that day, and so the renewal 
premium of £578.87 was collected from Mr Ss bank account in error. Mr S complained 
about this. 
British Gas apologised for its error. It refunded Mr S the premium it had collected, and also 
paid him £50 compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. He 
said that because British Gas had collected the renewal premium from him, this meant he 
couldnt book a holiday as hed intended, and he had to borrow money from friends in order 
to buy food. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the compensation 
paid by British Gas was fair, as Mr S hadnt provided any evidence to support that hed 
experienced a financial loss as a result of the error. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute that British Gas made an error here. In such cases, wed expect a financial 
business to place a consumer back in the position they would have been in (as far as 
possible) if the error hadnt occurred. 
In Mr Ss case, British Gas had collected £578.87 from Mr Ss bank account when it 
shouldnt have. Once it learnt of its error, it returned this money to Mr S. Im therefore 
satisfied that British Gas has placed Mr S back in the position he would have been, if the 
error hadnt been made. 
I therefore need to consider whether the compensation British Gas has paid is reasonable. 
Mr S noticed the premium had been collected on 8 August, and let British Gas know about 
this the same day. I see that the following day, British Gas advised Mr S that he could claim 
back the money from his bank under the Direct Debit Guarantee. Mr S chose not to do this, 
and so British Gas refunded the money to him. However, as an active direct debit was no longer in place, the money had to be refunded by cheque instead of being paid directly into 
Mr Ss bank account.
Although British Gas did make Mr S aware of his right to claim the money back immediately 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee, he opted for British Gas to provide the refund. However, I 
understand British Gas had led Mr S to think that the money would be returned directly to his 
bank account. I would therefore assume Mr S didnt claim the money back through the Direct 
Debit Guarantee as he thought hed receive the money from British Gas within a few days. 
Unfortunately, that wasnt the case and the refund was delayed as it was sent to Mr S by 
cheque. 
As Mr S was without use of the money for a few weeks, I think it was reasonable for British 
Gas to pay him £50 compensation.
Mr S thinks further compensation should be paid. He says that because of British Gass 
actions, he didnt have the funds available to book a holiday as hed intended. He also says 
he had to borrow money from friends to pay for food. 
If Mr S were able to evidence that the collection of the premium from his bank account left 
him with no money to buy food, then I may have required British Gas to increase its 
compensation. However, I havent seen any evidence of this, so I cant reasonably require 
British Gas to increase the compensation. 
Mr S also says his family were booking a holiday, and hed intended to book the same trip. 
He says he wasnt able to do so because British Gas took the money from his account. Then 
by the time British Gas had returned the money, the holiday was sold out. 
Again, Mr S hasnt provided any evidence of this. I therefore cant reasonably find that he 
missed out on a family holiday as a result of British Gass actions. 
I therefore dont require British Gas to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman