DRN-4228420
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company (AXA) unfairly found him 
at-fault for an accident he was involved in when driving, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in a car accident in December 2022. He collided with the car in front 
when approaching a roundabout. Mr H says the other driver admitted fault. There was 
minimal damage to his car. He didnt make a claim but says he did see a doctor about minor 
whiplash. 
Mr H says AXA contacted him when the third party made a claim against his policy. He says 
he didnt receive the letters it sent regarding liability. Mr H is concerned these letters werent 
actually sent because of another complaint hed made. In addition, he says a mandate he 
completed to obtain a copy of his paper driving licence was returned to him. He says the 
business didnt investigate the claim properly and failed to obtain CCTV footage. As a result 
of the at-fault decision Mr H says his premium has increased.
In its complaint response AXA says that the circumstances of Mr Hs accident are that he 
collided with the rear of another vehicle. It says it doesnt believe it can contest liability and 
the terms of its policy allow it to decide how best to deal with the claim. It confirms that it 
holds Mr H at fault and has dealt with the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She says AXA had shown it investigated the claim reasonably and 
confirmed there was no CCTV footage available. She thought it couldve made enquiries 
about the CCTV sooner, but this didnt alter the fact that none existed. She says it was fair 
that AXA settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. This meant Mr H could still take legal 
action against the other party if he wished. 
Our investigator didnt think it was possible to identify why the mandate was returned to Mr 
H. But she did acknowledge that AXAs letters were shown to be addressed correctly. She 
thought it was clear from the email and other contacts Mr H had with AXA that he was aware 
AXA intended settling the claim in the third-partys favour. And she didnt think it was able to 
deal with his claim for whiplash injury, given he was deemed to be at fault for the accident. 
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The terms and conditions for Mr Hs policy under the section headed, General Conditions 
say:
3. Handling claims against you
We may take over and deal with the defence or settlement of any claim in the name of you 
and/or the driver.
This essentially means that AXA can decide how it should deal with a claim. It doesnt need 
Mr Hs permission to do this. This is a common term used throughout the insurance industry, 
which is known as subrogation. This doesnt mean that AXA can do anything it wants. We 
still expect it to treat its customers fairly, and in line with its policy terms and conditions. 
The records show that AXA was contacted in December 2022 by the third-partys solicitor to 
confirm it was holding Mr H liable for an accident on 12 December. AXA says it wrote to Mr 
H to let him know, although he says he received none of the letters it sent. Ive checked the 
address on the letters AXA included with its submissions. This is the same address Mr H 
confirmed to us. Based on this evidence letters were sent, but for reasons unknown didnt 
reach Mr H. 
Mr H is concerned that the letters AXA says it provided, werent actually sent. He suggests 
this may be linked to another complaint he made against AXA. However, I havent seen 
evidence that supports this. Its clear from the records that Mr H was made aware of the 
claim. He was then actively involved in disputing it. I dont think there is evidence to show 
letters werent sent or that the lack of receipt of these letters had an impact here. 
I note Mr H raised concerns that the date AXA had for the incident wasnt correct. However, 
this was the date confirmed by the solicitor acting for the third-party. I havent seen evidence 
that shows this was inaccurate.
AXA appointed an investigator to look into the third-partys claim. A detailed report was 
produced, which included the responses Mr H provided when questioned. Ive read this 
report. I note Mr H confirms that he drove into the back of the other car. There were no 
independent witnesses, no dashcam footage was taken, and the investigator noted that 
there was no obvious CCTV in place at the scene of the accident. The investigator noted 
that Mr H had called his GP and was prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs in relation to a soft 
tissue injury. 
In his report the investigator recorded Mr Hs explanation that the car in front had stopped 
suddenly having first driven forward onto the roundabout both cars were approaching. The 
investigator suggested Mr H may have focussed on the approaching traffic and then collided 
with the car in front. But he thought it was clear that Mr H was liable for the accident as he 
had collided with the car in front. 
I can see that Mr H disputed the lack of CCTV. He confirmed there were cameras in place 
that would have captured the incident. It was subsequently found that this was correct. AXA 
made enquiries to establish who was responsible for the cameras and whether video of the 
accident had been recorded. It was subsequently confirmed that although cameras were 
present, this allowed live streaming only. This meant there was no video footage recorded. 
Based on this I think AXA carried out a fair investigation into the claim against Mr H. I think 
the issue with the availability of CCTV couldve been resolved sooner. But as discussed 
there was no recorded footage of the incident, so this didnt impact on the outcome. In the 
circumstances I think AXA behaved reasonably when settling the claim as it did, on a without 
prejudice basis. If Mr H wishes to take the matter further he can do so by taking legal action against the third-party. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments that he signed a mandate in December 2022 to allow the 
DVLA to release a paper copy of his driving licence. He says this was returned to him by the 
post office sometime later. Ive looked at the information Mr H has supplied and the 
discussions that took place between him and AXA. I dont think its clear why the mandate 
was returned by the postal service. But I cant reasonably conclude that this was AXAs fault. 
This didnt affect its decision on liability for the accident. 
I note Mr Hs comments that AXA didnt deal with his injury claim. I can see from the email 
correspondence in March 2023 that its claim handler told Mr H that the evidence strongly 
suggests he would be held at fault for the accident should this matter go to court. He says 
the claims handler for the third party wouldnt accept any claim for injuries in light of this. 
AXA advised that any claim Mr H wanted to pursue for his whiplash injury would need to be 
done through his own solicitor. In these circumstances I dont think AXA treated Mr H unfairly 
given the explanation it provided. 
Having considered all of this, although Im sorry Mr Hs insurance premiums have increased, 
I dont think AXA treated him unfairly in how it settled his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it 
to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman