DRN-1579420
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out with a mortgage in November 1993. Mr and Mrs W say that Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold the policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy when they took out a mortgage in November 1993. The 
policy covered both Mr W and Mrs W  and it wouldve provided them with a benefit in the 
event either of them wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy 
cost £16.50 each month and in the event of a successful claim wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should succeed. She said Nationwide shouldnt 
have sold the policy to Mr and Mrs W without highlighting the significant policy exclusions 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions  Mrs W had told this Service shed suffered with 
a medical condition from birth.
Nationwide disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. It asked for evidence of 
Mrs Ws medical condition because, it says, she didnt declare it when she first brought her 
mis-selling complaint to it. With Mrs Ws agreement, our adjudicator provided Nationwide 
with copies of letters and correspondence from Mrs Ws doctor that confirmed the existence 
of the medical condition.
In spite of the medical evidence, Nationwide continues to reject our adjudicators view. It 
says:
 
it is clear that Mrs W does suffer from the condition, but Im not persuaded the 
evidence, which postdates the sale by 23 years, is enough to show she suffered from 
the condition at the time of the sale.
 
it is clear that Mr and Mrs W both wanted to protect their mortgage repayments 
There is nothing to suggest that neither would have wanted the cover had the 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions been made clearer
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W and Nationwide say and Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mrs W suffered from a pre-existing medical condition and the medical 
evidence weve seen confirms her testimony; this was something shes had since she was 
born.
Nationwide disagrees and questions the plausibility of what Mrs W says. It says she 
didn't mention this condition when she first raised her complaint with it. And it says her 
doctors medical notes from 2006 and from 2007 do not show she suffered from the 
condition at the time of the sale.
Ive considered this carefully, but I disagree. Mrs Ws doctor describes her condition as being 
congenital; and a cursory check by Nationwides representative would have confirmed that 
a congenital disorder is defined as a medical condition that is present at or before birth.
This Service holds copies of the relevant policy wording that shouldve been given to Mr and 
Mrs W at the time of the sale. In the section on exclusions it says, You are not covered for 
any period of disablement arising directly from any existing defect or chronic or recurring 
disease, disorder or other condition of which you were aware on the date of signing the 
application or have suffered in the 12 months immediately preceding the commencement 
date of the insurance. So, Mrs Ws condition wouldn't have been covered.
Its unclear where the mortgage sale and the sale of the MPPI took place, but I think its 
more likely that it took place in a Nationwide branch. I cant know what was discussed during 
any meeting, but there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude that this very significant 
exclusion was highlighted or discussed. Because of this, I dont think it wouldve been clear 
to them that Mrs W wouldve been affected by specific policy exclusions regarding her pre-
existing medical condition.
Ive considered that it was Mr and Mrs Ws responsibility to consider suitability; however, it 
was still Nationwides responsibility to ensure that the information was sufficiently clear and 
that any limitations or exclusions that might be significant to Mr and Mrs W were pointed out 
so that they could make an informed choice.
I dont think this information was sufficiently drawn to Mr and Mrs Ws attention and if it had 
been, they would, more likely than not, have refused the policy. I say this because Mrs W 
had a medical condition. She had suffered from this condition for many, many years before 
the policy was sold. And it was a recurring condition. I think Mrs W wouldve felt this to be 
the most likely cause of her having time off work at that time and yet the policy would not 
have covered her for this. I believe this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs W and that if better 
information had been provided, they wouldn't have thought the policy was good value as the 
benefits would have been severely limited for Mrs W.
In summary, I dont think that Mr and Mrs W wouldve purchased the MPPI policy, if they had 
been given sufficiently clear and fair information about its exclusions.
Nationwide says Mr W would still have bought the policy even if it had been made clear that 
it may not have been appropriate for Mrs W  but, again, I dont agree. I think Mr and Mrs W 
were looking for a policy that covered both of them and provided cover in the event that 
either of them wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. If Nationwide had given them enough information about its policy, I think its more likely that they wouldve 
bought a joint policy from someone else.
I have noted all of Nationwides submissions, but these do not alter my conclusions. It 
follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, 
and Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Nationwide Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building Society must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I determine this complaint in favour of Mr and Mrs W. I 
require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs W fair compensation in accordance 
with the calculation of redress I have set out above. I make no further award against 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman