DRN-3016988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit, overcharged 
them on their mortgage.
This complaint was made after an audit was carried out by a third party on Mr and Mrs Ks 
behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had an interest only mortgage which was administered by Engage from 2015. 
The mortgage was redeemed in 2018. 
In 2018 a solicitor made a complaint about the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf. The 
complaint was initially made to the previous owner of the mortgage, but this was later 
referred to Engage to respond to as the most recent owners of the debt. 
The complaint explained that following an audit of the account, they believed Mr and Mrs K 
had been overcharged interest and fees on the mortgage. They said the reason for this was 
because the business had failed to calculate the correct amount of interest charges and 
payments, and that the business had levied other charges and fees to the account which 
were unwarranted. They also complained that Mr and Mrs K had paid more interest as a 
result of being sold an interest only mortgage as opposed to a repayment mortgage.
Mr and Mrs K referred the complaint to our service, and Engage gave us their consent to 
consider it. They also explained the mortgage had been sold by a broker, and so the broker 
would be responsible for a complaint about the advice given to take out an interest only 
mortgage.
Our investigator looked into things, and having done so, he didnt uphold the complaint. He 
wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs K had been overcharged interest or that fees had been added 
to the account when they shouldnt have been. 
Mr and Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint as they disagreed with the 
outcome. They also raised other complaints about the level of the fees and the advice to 
take out new interest rate products, which have since been referred to the relevant parties 
and will not form part of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators outcome, the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the mortgage
As the investigator explained, Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was sold by a broker, so any 
complaint about the fact they were sold an interest only mortgage as opposed to a 
repayment mortgage will need to be directed to them. So I wont comment on this part of the 
complaint any further in this decision.
The interest charged
Mr and Mrs K took their mortgage out in 2004. The mortgage offer stated that the mortgage 
would be on a fixed rate of interest until October 2005, after which, the lenders base rate 
guarantee would apply. In August 2005, Mr and Mrs K took out another fixed interest rate 
product which was due to apply to the mortgage until October 2007. After that, a variable 
rate would apply.
 
In September 2007 Mr and Mrs K took out further borrowing and a new interest rate product 
that would apply to the mortgage until October 2009. The mortgage offer stated that after 
that date, the lenders standard variable rate (SVR) would apply for a period of one year and 
five months. After that, the lenders variable loyalty discount rate would apply, which was the 
SVR with a discount of at least 0.25% - and that would apply for the remainder of the 
mortgage provided payments were kept up to date.
Mr and Mrs K have complained that the interest charged on the mortgage was not charged 
in accordance with the terms set out in the agreement. This is based on the findings from the 
audit report. But having considered the audit report, Im not satisfied this has actually used 
the correct information about Mr and Mrs Ks interest rate.
The latest mortgage offer stated that from October 2009, the SVR would apply to the 
mortgage. I have limited information from around that time, but I have seen a statement 
which shows that in November 2009 Mr and Mrs K were being charged 4.79% on their 
mortgage which was the lenders SVR at the time. So Im persuaded that the mortgage 
reverted to the SVR in line with the terms set out in the mortgage offer.
In March 2011, the loyalty discount was applied to Mr and Mrs Ks interest rate  as per the 
terms of the mortgage. So the rate went down to 4.54%. This is the rate that continued to 
apply to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage until April 2017 when it reduced to 4.37%, and then went 
up again in January 2018 to 4.54%. Both of the latest changes followed similar changes to 
the Bank of England base rate, and were common across the industry. The terms of Mr and 
Mrs Ks mortgage explained that the lender could vary the SVR as long as it was for one of 
the reasons set out. Having considered all the evidence, Im not satisfied the SVR charged 
to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage account was applied unfairly.
Ive not seen any evidence from looking at the mortgage statements and transaction history 
that suggests Mr and Mrs K were charged more interest than they should have been. So I 
dont uphold this part of their complaint.
The fees and charges
Ive considered the whole transaction history for the mortgage. The only fees that were 
applied to the mortgage over the term were those incurred at the point new interest rate 
products were taken out, as well as Early Repayment Charges (ERCs) that were incurred 
when changes were made to the mortgage within the ERC period. There were also 
administration fees applied to the mortgage upon redemption.
The product and mortgage review fees were all added to the mortgage balance at the time 
the products were taken out. Ive reviewed all three mortgage offer documents from 2004, 
2005, and 2007, and all of these made it clear what the fees were for, how much they were, and that they would be added to the mortgage balance. Mr and Mrs K agreed to accept the 
offers on the basis of that information, and Ive not seen anything to suggest the fees had 
been applied to the mortgage unfairly, or incorrectly.
On two occasions, in 2005 and 2007, Mr and Mrs K took out new interest rate products. As a 
result, they incurred ERCs which were added to the mortgage balance. The terms of the 
mortgage offers made it clear that if a new interest rate product was taken out during the 
ERC period (defined in the offer) then the full ERC would be payable and charged to the 
account. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs K did take out new products within the ERC periods, so Im 
satisfied the charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
I understand Mr and Mrs K have since questioned the advice to take out those products 
which resulted in the ERCs, as well as the amount of the ERCs themselves. But these have 
been raised as separate issues against the relevant parties, so I wont comment any further 
on that here.
The mortgage administration fees charged at the redemption of the mortgage totalled £47.50 
and these were set out on the redemption statement. These fees are common in the 
mortgage industry for covering the lenders costs of dealing with the administration involved 
in redeeming a mortgage. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think these were applied 
unfairly or when they shouldnt have been.
Overall I appreciate Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed to hear that Im not satisfied theyve 
been overcharged on their mortgage. Particularly after they received an audit report stating 
they had been. But Im not persuaded the audit applied the relevant terms of Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage to the calculations it used, and Im satisfied the interest, fees and charges were 
applied to the mortgage in line with the terms and conditions which they agreed to. So I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman