DRN-2908780
The complaint
Mr M complains that recovery agents acting on behalf of Lloyds Bank stopped collecting 
payments under an agreed repayment plan in 2014. He was not contacted again until 2018 
when he was asked to restart payments. He says that this has resulted in distress and would 
like the bank to write off the remaining debt. 
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with the bank. He wasnt able to keep the payments up to date and the 
property was sold to repay the debt. On sale there was a shortfall of around £21,000. In 
2013 Mr M agreed with the banks recovery agents to repay half of the shortfall by monthly 
instalment over a five-year period. 
The agents collected 14 payments and then stopped. Mr M says that he telephoned to find 
out what had happened, but the call was unsuccessful. He didnt hear anything more until 
2018 when another recovery agent got in touch. 
The bank says that it changed agents and thats why payments stopped being collected. The 
new agent says it didnt have contact details for Mr M and Lloyds has explained that it was 
not until a third agent was instructed that contact was re-established. 
Lloyds has offered to reinstate the 2013 agreement and collect the remaining payments in 
settlement of the shortfall. Our investigator concluded that offer was fair but that, in addition, 
the bank should apologise to Mr M and pay him £200 for inconvenience. 
Mr M doesnt think the offer or settlement recommended by the investigator is fair. He has 
said that had the payments continued the matter would have been concluded by now. 
Instead he now has several more years payments to make. He would like the bank to write 
off the remaining debt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr Ms concerns here; he had an agreement with the banks agent which 
stopped without explanation. That was a mistake and whilst I have noted what the bank has 
said about loss of contact I do not understand why that was an issue given that Mr Ms 
contact details have remained the same over the relevant period. There was clearly a 
communication failure between the bank and the new agent.
That said Mr M has not paid money due to the bank and the administrative issues do not, in 
my view, mean that the money should be written off. The bank started to collect the debt 
within regulatory guidelines and whilst there was a gap in contact Mr M was aware of both 
what had been agreed  and what had not been paid. 
The offer to write off half the shortfall was a concession and on the information about the 
circumstances in 2013 I think it reasonable. I asked Mr M why he felt it was no longer fair 
and beyond the gap in contact and the fact that he was hoping to have moved on he has not 
provided me with any additional information. 
On that basis I find the offer to reinstate the agreement to be fair. This means that Mr M will 
need to make the remaining payments for just under four years. He has told me that he 
would like to discuss an alternative arrangement with the bank, and I have flagged that as an 
option and see no reason why that cant be considered. The bank has agreed and said that it 
would need to make sure that any payment is affordable for Mr M. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr M has experienced some inconvenience and upset here 
and for that he should be compensated. She recommended that the bank issue an apology 
and pay £200. Mr M has told me he is not interested in this he just wants the matter to be 
concluded. I do understand what Mr M has said but for the reasons set out above my award 
here is limited to one for the inconvenience in needing to deal with this matter again and the 
upset arising from that. 
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds Bank Plc should:
issue an apology to Mr M;
pay him £200 for inconvenience and upset; and
engage with Mr M to discuss what payment arrangement might now be possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and that Lloyds Bank Plc should take the 
steps set out above to put things right for Mr M.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2021.
 
Clare Mortimer
Ombudsman