DRN-4134239
The complaint
Mr C complains that Ulster Bank Ltd made a payment from his current account to an 
incorrect account at another bank.
What happened
Mr C wanted to make a payment to an account at another bank and used Ulster Banks 
mobile app. Mr C says that Ulster Bank didnt send the payment to the correct account, and 
he quickly requested a faster payment recovery. Ulster Bank refunded the payment minus a 
recall charge. Mr C complained to Ulster Bank that it hadnt sent the money to the account 
he wanted it to go to.
Ulster Bank said the account details had been entered by Mr C on its mobile app and Mr C 
had confirmed the payment. Ulster Bank doesnt accept responsibility for the payment being 
sent to the wrong account. However, Ulster Bank does accept that it provided Mr C with 
incorrect information about the amount it recalled and credited to his account and has paid 
Mr C £120 by way of an apology. Ulster Bank also refunded the £6 recall charge it applied. 
Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought Ulster Bank hadnt been 
responsible for the incorrect account details as these had been input on its mobile app. 
However, the Investigator thought that the £126 Ulster Bank paid to Mr C for the incorrect 
information it provided regarding the credit to his account and the £6 recall charge was a fair 
and reasonable remedy. Mr C asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided that the remedy Ulster Bank has paid to Mr C is a fair and 
reasonable one in the circumstances of this case. I will now explain why. 
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that it was Ulster Bank who input the incorrect account 
details before payment was made and this resulted in the funds being sent to an incorrect 
account. However, the payment request was completed on Ulster Banks mobile app  it 
wasnt in branch or on the telephone. Mr C did call Ulster Bank a couple of days later and  
although Ulster Bank cant provide a copy of this call  it recorded on Mr Cs account notes 
that he requested a recall because he wanted the payment to go to another account. Taking 
all of this into account, Im persuaded its unlikely Ulster Bank input the incorrect account 
details and that it isnt responsible for the payment being made to the wrong account.
Thankfully Ulster Bank was able to recover the full amount of funds quite quickly, but then 
deducted a £6 charge which it told Mr C was a recall fee. Ulster Bank accepts that it 
shouldnt have applied this charge. Ulster Bank also accepts it told Mr C that the refund 
applied to his account wasnt the recalled amount and that it was still awaiting the refund. It 
seems that Ulster Bank were expecting to see the full refund and not the refunded amount 
less the £6 charge Ive referred to above. In its final response to Mr Cs complaint Ulster 
Bank apologised and explained it had paid Mr C £120 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused, and it had refunded the £6 recall fee. 
Ulster Bank has accepted that it got things wrong, so I only have to consider if the remedy 
its paid is a fair and reasonable one in this case. The incorrect information about the refund 
not being received will have been confusing and worrying for Mr C at the time, and it took 
further communication from Ulster Bank to make it clear what had happened. However, Im 
satisfied that amount Ulster Bank has already paid Mr M reflects the level of short-term 
inconvenience Mr C experienced, and I wont be asking Ulster Bank to do anything else.
My final decision
Ive decided that  Ulster Bank Ltd has already paid Mr C £126 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman