DRN-2455818
The complaint
Mr B complains about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim made against his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs car was involved in an accident as he waited to exit a store car park. He says he was 
stationary when a third-party reversed and hit the rear of his car. He reported the incident to 
esure who initially recorded it as a non-fault accident. 
The third-partys insurer didnt agree and said their driver had reported that both cars were 
reversing when they collided. Initially, esure disputed this and explained that Mr Bs car 
wasnt moving at the time. But the third-partys insurer argued there was no evidence to 
support what he said happened, and they were only willing to accept partial liability for the 
incident. 
Mr B explained that the other driver had admitted she was not looking when she reversed. 
He showed esure text messages in which the other driver said she was responsible for the 
accident. But they didnt think the text messages would be accepted as evidence in court. 
They said that if the case was taken to court, the judge would hold both parties responsible 
for the incident, because of a lack of evidence. So, they accepted joint liability and settled 
the claim on a without prejudice basis to allow Mr B to seek legal advice if he wanted to.
Mr B doesnt agree with esures decision, he also complains that his premium increased due 
to the claim and he had been told he would be reimbursed any amount he paid once the 
claim had been sorted out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and felt esures decision was reasonable 
because there is no evidence to prove Mr B wasnt moving when his car was hit. As Mr B 
didnt accept our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator has reached. 
In these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in 
question, thats something for the courts to decide. Rather, its to look at whether esures 
investigation was fair, and if the outcome was reasonable. 
Mr Bs policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says esure may take 
over, defend or settle the claim in your name. This means esure can handle a claim 
however they see fit. Even though it might mean esure make a decision Mr B doesnt agree 
with, they are still allowed to do so. That said, we would still expect them to settle a claim in 
a fair and reasonable way, taking into account all the facts and evidence provided by both 
sides. I think they did, and Ill explain why.
Mr B says that the third-party driver admitted she wasnt paying attention, so it didnt matter 
that she assumed Mr B might have also been reversing when their cars collided. I 
understand Mr Bs point, but the third-party insurer felt both parties were equally responsible 
for the incident and made a claim against Mr B. This meant esure had a responsibility to 
investigate the claim and decide how best to settle the matter.
Mr B provided esure with text messages in which the third-party driver accepted fault for the 
accident. esure informed the third-partys insurer that their driver accepted she was at fault 
for the incident, but the third-partys insurer maintained that their driver wasnt solely 
responsible for the incident and said there was also no evidence to support what Mr B said 
happened. 
When dealing with claims like this, where there is dispute over who was responsible for the 
accident, insurers will often consider what the outcome is likely to be should it be decided by 
a judge in court. Legal proceedings can be costly, so it isnt unusual for insurers to settle a 
claim instead of taking legal action, when they think there is little chance of them 
succeeding. 
esure concluded the text messages wouldnt be strong enough evidence on their own. Ive 
looked at the contents of the messages and thought about what esure said, and I think its 
reasonable. This is because, while the other driver admits to not paying attention at the time 
and accepts fault, esure doesnt think her statements provide any proof Mr B wasnt also 
moving when the accident occurred. esures claims handler also explained to Mr B that text 
messages and admissions of liability at the scene of the incident arent usually accepted as 
evidence in court. They explained that while the driver may have thought they were at fault, it 
is ultimately the insurers decision, and I dont find what esure said unreasonable.
esure will have experience of how courts view these types of cases and they felt that, as 
there was a lack of independent evidence such as CCTV footage or an independent witness 
who could say what happened, it was likely a judge would decide on a 50/50 settlement. Ive 
thought about what theyve said, and I think its fair. They settled on a without prejudice 
basis, effectively this means esure settled the claim without admission of fault. In all the 
circumstances, I think this is fair and allows Mr B the opportunity to pursue legal action 
against the third party if he wishes to.
Mr B also says he was told esure would reimburse any amount he paid as a result of the 
claim. Ive listened to his initial conversation with esure in which the handler says as its a 
non-fault claim they would have the excess waived. esure said the increase in Mr Bs 
premium was to account for accidents and other changes made during the term of the policy, 
and I dont find it unreasonable that it does so, as theyve had to accept some responsibility 
for the accident.
As I mentioned earlier, my role isnt to say who was responsible for what happened, but to 
decide whether esure made a fair decision. I know this will be disappointing to Mr B but, 
ultimately, Im satisfied they considered all the evidence available before settling the claim. 
And I cant say their decision to accept joint responsibility for the incident was unfair. So, I 
dont think esure need to do anything differently. My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman