DRN-3552617
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer 
Finance (Hitachi) rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Hitachi didnt agree that the panels had been misrepresented to Mr M but made a, without 
admission of liability offer in order to bring the case to a resolution. This offer wasnt 
accepted by Mr M as he felt it didnt fully compensate him for his losses.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She further explained that Hitachis offer was not in line with our established 
approach to redress in these types of cases. 
Hitachi didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Hitachi feels the estimated returns from the solar panels were made clear to 
Mr M and from the evidence it can see, the solar panel system has performed in line with the 
estimates made by the installer. It further adds that the documentation doesnt specify the 
solar panels will be self-funding. 
As explained by our adjudicator, Mr M says he was told the solar panels would be self-
funding verbally, and Mr Ms testimony has been consistent throughout. And while there is 
an estimated returns document, it does not compare the estimated returns with the cost of 
the panels including the finance. Mr M would have had to look through several documents to 
understand that the financial benefits estimated  would not be sufficient to cover the 
monthly finance costs. And as an inexperienced consumer, I think it was reasonable for him 
to rely on what he was being told verbally. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Hitachi needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Hitachi needs to reimburse Mr M accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure Mr Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ms monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he wouldve paid more each month than he shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
I understand Hitachi doesnt wish to pay 8% simple interest in line with our established 
approach to these cases as it doesnt feel theres anything in the documents indicating Mr M 
was told that the solar panels would be self-funding. However, as explained above, I think 
the evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place. And, in this case, 
Ive seen no reason to depart from our established approach to these types of cases. So, I 
still think Hitachi needs to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement.
I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr M has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay Mr M the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr M should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Hitachi, and Hitachi should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in line 
with our established approach. I direct that Hitachi should pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer Finance should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman