DRN-4109841
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss C was provided with a credit card account by Clydesdale Bank in May 2022. The credit 
limit was £4,100. Miss C says she applied for the credit card to make payments towards her 
rent and bills. She says she wasnt working at the time and has been struggling to pay off the 
credit card since the outset. She says adequate checks didnt take place before the credit 
was provided.
Clydesdale Bank issued its final response in September 2022. It said Miss C applied for a 
credit card online and as part of her application said she was working with an annual income 
of £30,000 and was paying £300 a month for her mortgage. It said that it relied on the 
information provided through the application process as well as from the credit reference 
agencies and based on this the credit card account with a £4,100 credit limit appeared 
affordable.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that Clydesdale Bank gathered a 
reasonable amount of evidence and information about Miss Cs ability to repay the credit 
card. However, he thought that her income information should have been verified in some 
way. Because of this he reviewed Miss Cs bank statements and found Miss Cs monthly 
income from the time of her application was around £1,732. Given the information about 
Miss Cs existing credit commitments he didnt think proportionate checks would have likely 
revealed concerns about affordability. Therefore, he didnt think Clydesdale Bank acted 
unfairly in opening the account.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators view. She challenged what checks Clydesdale 
Bank had undertaken to ensure she could sustainably afford the repayments. She said that 
Clydesdale Bank didnt carry out reasonable checks of her income and expenses and that 
her income wasnt verified. She accepted that she shouldnt have provided inaccurate 
income information but said that Clydesdale Bank should have done more to check this.
My provisional conclusions
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. In this provisional 
decision I said that given the size of the credit limit, it would have been proportionate for 
Clydesdale Bank to have undertaken some form of verification to ensure the accuracy of 
Miss Cs income. I considered the information contained in Miss Cs bank statements which 
showed she had a lower income than had been recorded and that there were other 
discrepancies in the information she had provided that I thought meant further checks were 
needed. Based on the evidence I thought Miss Cs complaint should be upheld.
Clydesdale Bank responded to my provisional decision and provided new information from 
its underwriting team to show the income checks it carried out before providing the finance. 
These supported Miss Cs declared income amount. 
I issued a second provisional decision in April 2023. I noted the checks Clydesdale Bank had 
evidenced that it had carried out on Miss Cs income and said I thought these checks were 
reasonable. Therefore, I couldnt say that Clydesdale Bank did anything wrong by relying on 
the outcome of its income verification which supported the income Miss C provided as part 
of her application being £30,000.
I still thought it would have been reasonable to ask Miss C about her specific expenses 
rather than relying on estimates. Had this happened I found it reasonable to accept that it 
would have realised her monthly rent was £1,300, much higher than had been recorded. 
Having looked at the information Miss C provided I thought the amount of £137 Clydesdale 
Banks checks showed for non-revolving debt was reasonable to include for her other credit 
commitments. Additional to this Miss C had to pay for her utilities, phone, internet and 
insurance costs and I found the information Miss C provided along with the details from her 
statements a reasonable indication of what she would have provided to Clydesdale Bank at 
the time had she been asked. This gave total expenditure before general living expenses of 
around £1,600.
Based on an annual income of £30,000, Miss Cs net monthly income would be around 
£2,000. Taking the expenses noted above this would leave around £400 a month for her 
general living expenses (including food, transport and other costs) as well as her 
repayments for the credit card. I noted that while I could see this wouldnt leave Miss C with 
much spare, based on the higher income figure and noting that Miss C said she was 
intending to use the credit card to pay for her rent and bills, I did not find that I had enough to 
say further checks of Miss Cs expenses would have meant Clydesdale Bank should have 
considered the credit card with a £4,100 limit as unaffordable.
Miss C didnt agree with my second provisional decision not upholding her complaint. She 
said that it would have been impossible for Clydesdale Bank to verify her income at the time 
because she was receiving the maximum amount of benefits. She said that credit reference 
agencies didnt contain information about income and that any estimate couldnt be relied on. 
She said that payslips or bank statements would have provided an accurate reflection of her 
income, and these werent requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
I have considered the information that Miss C provided in response to my second provisional 
decision, and I can understand why she was upset that I decided not to uphold her 
complaint. I note Miss Cs comments about the information held by credit reference agencies 
however Clydesdale Bank has explained that it used current account turnover income 
estimates from the credit reference agencies to validate Miss Cs income. It has provided 
evidence of this and the outcome which supported the income declared by Miss C. Given the credit applied for I think this was a reasonable approach to verifying Miss Cs income and so 
I do not find that Clydesdale Bank was wrong to assess Miss Cs application based on the 
income she had provided.
Based on this income and the assessment of Miss Cs expenses, I do not find I can say the 
credit card with a credit limit of £4,100 should have been considered unaffordable. I 
understand this decision will be disappointing to Miss C and I can appreciate why she 
doesnt agree with it. But in this case, I find the income verification checks were reasonable 
and as the outcome of this combined with further checks of the expenses didnt suggest the 
credit limit to be unaffordable, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman