DRN-2656793
The complaint
Mr D complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using the information we have from Mr D and Satsuma here is a brief loan table. It shows 
that there was a gap in lending between loans 2 and 3. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Combined 
Repayment
1 12/08/2017 21/04/2018 12 £1,000.00 £166.00
2 22/09/2017 20/04/2018 9 £100.00 £188.20
break in lending of around 14 months
3 28/06/2019 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £249.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Loan 2 ought not to have 
been lent to Mr D as it came so soon after the first loan. Provident agreed and has said it will 
put things right in the way that our adjudicator had outlined. 
Mr D disagrees and maintains that the third loan ought not to have been lent to him as he 
had trouble repaying Loans 1 and 2 and he says Provident ought to have known this.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
[Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this applies to 
Mr Ds circumstances: he was approved for two loans and then there was a gap before loan 
3. Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
As Satsuma has accepted the outcome in relation to Loan 2, I do not need to review it as it is 
part of the complaint which has been resolved. The Putting things right part of the decision 
reflects this.
As for Loan 1, I think that looking at all the evidence I have from both parties, and that Mr D 
was a new customer to Satsuma when he applied for Loan 1, then Satsuma carried out the 
checks I would have considered to have been proportionate for that Loan and I do not 
uphold Mr Ds complaint in relation to it. It would have been disproportionate for Satsuma to 
be reviewing Mr Ds bank statements. It used Mr Ds declared income and expenditure, and 
I have seen evidence in the records before approving Loan 1 that it carried out a credit 
check and factored into its affordability assessment the additional (undeclared) debt Mr D 
had to repay around that time. 
Mr D feels very strongly about Loan 3. Hes of the view that his difficult to repay Loans 1 
and 2 ought to have led Satsuma to decline his application for Loan 3. And I understand that 
his redundancy payments were used to repay them around April 2018. The bank statements 
I have for Mr D do not cover 2018 but the Satsuma repayment records shows that they were 
repaid 21 April 2018. 
Looking at all that I have and the fact that there was a 14 month gap between the lending, 
then its checks for Loan 3 were proportionate. It was reasonable to treat Loan 3 as the first 
loan in a new chain. I note that Mr D was declined a loan in July 2018 but still there was a 
significant gap between it and the application for loan 3 for Satsuma to think that Mr Ds 
finances may have altered and improved. It carried out credit searches and those did not 
lead it to think that his situation was such that the Loan 3 ought not to be approved. As I said 
earlier, for a first loan in a new loan chain it would be disproportionate for Satsuma to do 
more than it did. I do not think Satsuma needed to do more.  
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Satsuma should fairly pay in this case Ive thought  about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D for Loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr D in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Satsumas liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
My understanding is that Loan 2 has been paid off. Satsuma ought to do as follows: 
A) Satsuma should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D  towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Satsuma  has already refunded; and
B) Satsuma  should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) Satsuma  should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr D  as though they had been 
repayments of the  principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr D having made 
overpayments then Satsuma  should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Satsuma  should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr D . 
E) Satsuma should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation 
to loan 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and Provident Personal Credit 
Limited trading as Satsuma should do as it has agreed to do and as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman