DRN-2663640
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Ald Automotive Limited (trading as Ford Lease) (AAL) unfairly applied
charges at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs B took out the hire agreement in 2017. She agreed to hire the car for three years but
returned it after 18 months, as she no longer needed it. The car was inspected by a third
party after it went back and AAL sent Mrs B an invoice for damage charges totalling over
£500 as follows:-
£248 for a scratch to Door RHR
£248 for a scratch to Door RHF
£63 for a scratch to the left corner of the rear bumper
Mrs B thought the charges were excessive so she complained to AAL.
AAL agreed to remove some of the charges (for one door) and reduce the amount
outstanding to £311. AAL considers the remaining charges - for scratches to the
bumper and offside rear door - were applied properly. It says these scratches go through to
the primer and the damage falls outside of fair wear and tear under industry guidelines.
Our investigator reviewed the condition report provided by the third party inspector and
industry guidance from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). The
guidance says (insofar as its relevant) scratches - surface scratches of 25mm or less, 
where the primer or bare metal is not showing, are acceptable provided they can be polished 
out'. She considers the charge applied in respect of the bumper is reasonable - because 
shes satisfied that scratch exceeds 25mm in length. But, she doesnt think damage to the 
offside rear door is chargeable because those scratches are less than 25mm long. She
recommends AAL should reduce the amount Mrs B has to pay to £63, for damage to the
bumper only. 
Mrs B accepted our investigators view but she feels all of the charges were applied
unfairly. And its wrong that AAL can charge for damage that wasnt repaired before the
car was re-sold and wouldnt affect the cars resale value. She thinks AAL applies
charges arbitrarily and in excess of the reasonable cost of rectification.
AAL disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It
says
the BVRLA guidance states that damage is chargeable if one of three levels of
damage is present  that is, a scratch either exceeds 25mm or is through to the
primer or bare metal is showing;
a scratch does not have to exceed 25mm to qualify as chargeable if its through 
to the primer or bare metal is showing;
primer is clearly visible in photographs taken when this car was inspected on 
return;
the inspector noted, in his report, that scratches to the rear door were 'less than
25mm through the top coat; - and through the top coat means he could see 
primer;
scratches to the rear door are chargeable even though they were less than 25mm
long; and
charges for both the bumper and the rear door were applied properly in 
accordance with fair wear and tear guidelines
my provisional findings
Having reviewed the available evidence, I was minded to come to a different view to the 
investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to the parties earlier this month. Ive 
summarised my provisional findings below.   
I understood it was frustrating to receive an invoice for damage charges when, as far as Mrs 
B was concerned, this car was returned in acceptable condition. I could see that she feels 
its wrong for AAL to apply charges when it didnt have the damage fixed before the car was 
disposed of and she considers the amount charged is excessive.
The role of this service is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers informally. I am not a regulator. I dont have the power to investigate the way AAL 
that runs its business on a day to day basis. My job is to consider the evidence provided by 
both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, 
in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
In doing so, I must have regard to relevant law and industry guidance, amongst other things. 
And I was satisfied that the BVRLA guidance is relevant here. I considered the relevant 
BVRLA guidelines and I was satisfied this provides that scratches in excess of 25mm are 
chargeable - and shorter scratches are also chargeable if they go through to the primer or 
bare metal is showing.
I read the hire agreement that Mrs B signed. I was satisfied that this required her to maintain 
the car in good condition (including the bodywork and exterior), having regard to the age and 
mileage - and the vehicles condition would be assessed by AAL in line with the BVRLA 
guidance on fair wear and tear. Mrs Bs attention was drawn to these obligations specifically 
in another document she signed at the outset entitled contract hire overview. And I was 
satisfied she was also reminded that the car would be inspected on collection in email from 
AAL which referenced the BVRLA guidance.
Mrs B didnt dispute that theres a scratch on the bumper and this exceeds 25mm. Having 
considered the inspection report, I was minded to agree with our investigator that this 
damage is chargeable under the industry guidance referred to above. The investigator didnt 
think the scratch to the rear door was chargeable however  because its less than 25mm 
long. But I didnt agree. I was satisfied that scratches shorter than 25mm are chargeable if 
they go through to the primer or bare metal can be seen. I considered a photograph of the 
offside rear door taken at the inspection in April 2019 and I was satisfied that primer is 
visible.
I considered the damage charged for against the BVRLA guidelines. I considered it goes 
beyond what could reasonably be considered fair wear and tear. And I was minded to find
AAL is entitled to be compensated for this failure by Mrs B to return the car in line with her
obligations to keep it in good repair and condition.
I understood Mrs B considers the amount charged by AAL for the estimated cost of repairs is
unfair and this figure was arrived at arbitrarily. AAL says its charges are reviewed annually
and reflect market costs for repairs. It estimates the rectification work needed here wouldcost £331 and I thought that seemed in line with indicative costs of common damage 
charges that AAL sets out on its website. I was not persuaded, on balance, that the charges 
applied are excessive. And I couldnt fairly say they were arrived at arbitrarily in these 
circumstances.
I realised Mrs B might well say she could have had the work done for less elsewhere. But, I 
was satisfied that she knew the car would be inspected on collection - and she could be 
charged for rectifying any damage present beyond fair wear and tear. So, she had an 
opportunity to have the damage fixed, if she wanted to, before the car was collected.
I appreciated Mrs B also considers the charges are unfair because AAL hasnt actually
incurred this cost - in that the car was sold without being repaired. And she doesnt think the
damage present would have impacted on the re-sale value. I was satisfied the BVRLA
guidance says damage charges are applied at the end of this sort of agreement - when a car
was not looked after as agreed under the finance - to compensate the lender for the cost of
rectifying related damage. And these charges can still be applied if the lender decides not to
carry out repairs before a car is sold. So, I couldnt fairly find AAL was obliged to undertake
repairs before the car was sold on.
I could see that would probably feel unfair to Mrs B. She says the damage wouldnt have 
affected the cars re-sale value so the amount charged doesnt accurately reflect any loss 
AAL that may have incurred. I thought a number of different factors are likely to affect the 
price a car sells for on any given day at auction or elsewhere. I couldnt reasonably find this 
sort of damage is the only factor that a prospective purchaser would take into account when 
deciding how much to pay for a car. And I didnt think impact on the re-sale price should be 
the sole factor in determining if these charges are reasonable. I was satisfied however that 
any prospective buyer would be able to see that the car had some damaged paintwork. I 
thought it was fair to assume theyd be likely to pay less for this car than another of the same 
model, age and mileage without this damage present. And I considered the damage 
probably would have an adverse impact on the re-sale price.
I didnt think I couldnt fairly find AAL was wrong to apply these charges. I wasnt persuaded 
they were disproportionate or unreasonable. And I was minded to find it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to require AAL to waive or reduce them. I invited both parties to consider my 
provisional findings and provide any new evidence or submissions by 19 March 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAL responded and didnt object to my provisional findings. Mrs B remains unhappy but she 
accepted my provisional conclusions. In light of the responses received from the parties, I 
see no reasonable ground to depart from my provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that the charges AAL applied were 
disproportionate or unreasonable. I cant fairly find AAL was wrong to apply these charges 
and Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require AAL to waive or reduce them. 
If Mrs B is likely to have any difficulty paying the charges in one go, she should let AAL know 
and Id expect AAL to agree an appropriate repayment plan.
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman