DRN-2795274
The complaint
Ms S says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says that she was in a debt spiral when Mutual lent to her. She thinks 
that it should have found out about this and not approved any loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Mutual disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms S complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics.
This complaint is about six home collected loans Mutual provided to Ms S between 
January 2011 and August 2015.
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 15/01/2011 £300 102 14/03/2012
2 01/10/2011 £1,000 102 14/03/2012
3 24/08/2013 £2,500 102 29/10/2014
4 01/11/2014 £2,600 102 26/10/2016
5 29/08/2015 £500 102 26/04/2017
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt have enough information to say that 
loans 1 to 3 were within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, she didnt look 
at this lending. She also didnt uphold the complaint about loan 4.
Our adjudicator went on to say that Mutual shouldnt have approved loan 5 as she thought the 
amount Ms S was borrowing was too high a proportion of her income and that the lending pattern 
itself was harmful. Mutual didnt agree with this. And its provided its reasons why. I have read 
what Mutual has said but I havent reproduced it here as Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly speaking, this all 
means that Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S could repay 
her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a point where the lending history 
and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im intending to reach a different 
outcome to adjudicator. Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Ms S complaint and Ive explained 
why below.
Ms S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to look at loans 1 to 3. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  and, for the avoidance of doubt, 
given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this lending. So, Im 
not able to consider these loans in any detail, but they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms S 
had with Mutual. So, their existence tells me that Mutual should have known certain things about 
Ms S, and the headline information about the amounts Mutual lent to her in those early loans has 
relevance to my consideration of the later lending.
As our adjudicator said I think the increase in lending over these earlier loans, when considered 
against Ms S income, does point to financial problems. So, I agree that Mutual shouldve been 
making better checks before approving loans 4 and 5. But I havent seen enough to enable me to 
say with any degree of certainty what further checks wouldve shown Mutual. So, I cant 
reasonably say that this lending wasnt affordable for Ms S.
It was recorded at loan 5 that Ms S had an income of around £335 a week. Mutual recorded her 
expenditure as being £138 a week. As I said before there isnt a lot of information about what Ms 
S earned and spent, I think this is partly due to the time that has passed. But in summary the 
amounts I have seen show that Ms S had a disposable income of just under £200 each week.
By loan 4 Ms S was making a commitment to repay around £39 a week, this increased to just 
over £45 a week for loan 5. Given that Ms S had around £200 of disposable income each 
week. I dont think this is too great an amount to repay. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mutual to approve loans 4 and 5 due to the size of the repayments.
Our adjudicator thought that the length of time Ms S borrowed from Mutual showed that she was 
likely to have become reliant on this type of borrowing.
As can be seen in the table above Ms S took two loans in 2011 and repaid these in 2012. There 
was then a break in lending and Ms S took another, much larger loan (loan 3), in 2013. She 
repaid this loan and took a similar one in 2014 and her last loan, loan 5, was in 2015. So, the 
final three loans were a separate chain in the lending.
Whilst Ms S was making repayments to Mutual for a number of years the repayments seemed 
affordable and I dont think its reasonable to say her indebtedness was increasing in a way that 
seemed harmful. In fact loan 5 was for a much smaller amount than the loans she had taken 
earlier. And even though she was still making repayments into loan 4 this suggests to me her 
need for this type of lending was reducing rather than increasing. So, on present evidence, I dont 
think its reasonable to say that Ms S was reliant on these loans, and this was causing her harm.
So, overall, having considered everything Im not currently minded to uphold Ms S 
complaint.
Mutual, and Ms S representative, received my provisional decision. And no one had 
anything to add after theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual, and Ms S, didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman