DRN-3967775
The complaint
Mr Ws sister has a lasting power of attorney for Mr W. She complains on his behalf that Key 
Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS) unfairly recommended a lifetime mortgage to him. She 
said it was inappropriate for Mr W bearing in mind his health problems.
What happened
In 2015, Mr W gave his sister power of attorney for his property and financial affairs. As 
attorney she had the power to act on behalf of Mr W. 
In 2019, KRS recommended that Mr W should take out an equity release mortgage. The 
purpose of the borrowing was:
Home maintenance - £3,000
Fees - £3,350
Holiday - £2,000
Guaranteed Cash Reserve Shortfall - £5,000 
A drawdown feature that gave Mr W access to a further £50,000.
Mr Ws sister complains that it was inappropriate for KRS to recommend an equity release 
mortgage to Mr W because of his health. She said his illness affected his ability to 
concentrate, his cognitive ability and his hearing. She said that KRS knew about the power 
of attorney and that it should not have let the mortgage go ahead without carrying out further 
checks with her as Mr Ws attorney. She also pointed out that Mr W was not really able to 
leave his home  so the stated reason for borrowing of a holiday was unrealistic.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He said that KRS did not have 
any reason to doubt he information Mr W gave it and that it had acted fairly in granting the 
mortgage. There was no obligation for it to tell Mr Ws sister about the application.
Mr Ws sister did not accept what the investigator said. She made a number of points, 
including:
Mr W has a very serious illness that causes him to have altered cognition that leads to 
confusion, disorientation, forgetfulness, hallucinations, delusions, slow responses to 
questions, memory loss, poor reasoning and judgment, and difficulty with complex 
decision making and attention.
Mr W does not have mental capacity  so anything he signs is not valid.
KRS knew there was a power of attorney in place when Mr W entered into the mortgage. 
It must have been aware that it was in place because Mr W lacked the mental capacity to 
manage how own affairs.
KRS was not medically trained so could not judge whether Mr W had mental capacity or 
not. 
The power of attorney was set up in 2015 in anticipation of a time when Mr W would no 
longer be able to make his own decisions because his illness affects his brain. His 
condition has got worse and has taken away his mental capacity.
Mr W gets confused all the time. He relapses several times a year.
The reasons given for the borrowing were absolute rubbish. Mr Ws home didnt need 
any maintenance. 
Mr Ws bank statements do not show any spending on a holiday or home maintenance. 
In fact, he bought two electric bikes, which he cant use because of his illness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what Mr W and his sister have been through. I dont doubt what Mr 
Ws sister has told us about his health and the impact of his illness on him. I accept that the 
power of attorney was in place because of the deterioration of Mr Ws ability to make sound 
decisions and his mental capacity.
The law is one of the things I must take into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable 
in the individual circumstances of a complaint. In this case that will include the Mental 
Capacity Act 2005. The Act says:
That a person must be assumed to have capacity unless it is established that he lacks 
capacity.
A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision unless all practicable steps to 
help him to do so have been taken without success.
A person is not to be treated us unable to make a decision merely because he makes an 
unwise decision.
There was a lasting power of attorney if Mr W lost mental capacity. I dont dispute what his 
sister says about his capacity. But I cant see we have evidence that Mr W did not have the 
capacity to manage his affairs at the time the mortgage was taken out. And the fact there 
was a lasting power of attorney would not mean that Mr W actually lacked capacity at the 
time in question. Nor would it mean that KRS should assume that Mr W lacked capacity or 
that it had any duty to check with the attorney before giving Mr W mortgage advice.
There is also relevant case law, which says that a contract entered into by a person who 
lacks mental capacity is enforceable  unless the person can show that they lacked mental 
capacity at the time in question and the other party knew (or ought reasonably to have 
known) that they were mentally incapable.
Putting aside whether Mr W lacked capacity or not at the time in question, to be able to 
uphold the complaint I would also need to find that KRS ought reasonably to have known 
that Mr W was mentally incapable. As Ive said the fact that there was a lasting power of 
attorney was not enough for KRS to be on notice that Mr W lacked mental capacity. Nor 
would it create any automatic requirement to contact the attorney. Ive listened to the phone calls that Mr W had with KRS. Mr W is able to talk about his 
finances, property, needs and circumstances in a coherent way. And he was able to 
meaningfully engage with KRS during the conversations. Mr W mentions hes had health 
problems (although he is better now), that he struggles with his memory and that his sister 
has power of attorney for him. He also loses his train of thought at one point. But it doesnt 
follow that was enough to put a financial business (acting reasonably) on notice that Mr W 
did not have mental capacity. I dont consider there was anything in the phone calls  or in 
any of the other evidence I have seen  that would lead me to conclude that KRS ought 
reasonably to have known that Mr W lacked mental capacity at the time of the advice. 
Further, Mr W was visited by an independent solicitor who explained the terms and 
implications of the lifetime mortgage. They confirmed that they were satisfied that Mr W had 
sufficient mental capacity.
Looking at the evidence we have, it does not support that KRS ought reasonably to have 
known that Mr W lacked mental capacity (if in fact he did). The purpose of the borrowing was 
for legitimate reasons. And I cant see any other reason why the advice was unsuitable for 
Mr W. So I dont consider that KRS acted unfairly or unreasonably in recommending the 
mortgage to Mr W based on the information that was given to it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman