DRN-1345050
The complaint
Mrs W complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited caused a problem with 
her car after they replaced her windscreen under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The AA replaced Mrs Ws cars windscreen. As part of that process, her car had to be 
recalibrated. She felt that this caused a new problem with her car. The AA didnt agree. But 
they were willing to reimburse Mrs W the cost of a garage diagnostic test and pay for the 
repair work if that showed that the problem was the direct result of the windscreen 
replacement and calibration. 
 
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
AA had acted fairly on the evidence they had and that theyd offered a fair solution to the 
matter. But Mrs W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained to Mrs W, we dont assess whether or how damage to a 
car could be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance 
companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurer 
has considered all the available evidence and whether they can justify their decision to not 
pay for additional repairs. 
Mrs W said that when she got her car back there was a problem with her sat nav and 
telephone contacts list, which hadnt been there before. She said the windscreen repairer 
told her not to use them before the garage did the recalibration as they could be affected. 
The job sheet the repairer has provided doesnt confirm this, but Ive no reason to disbelieve 
Mrs W about what was said. 
But the AA said that the windscreen repairer and their own engineer said that recalibrating 
the windscreen did not involve those areas so any problem with those was not related. So 
the AA didnt think any rectification was required.  But they said that if Mrs W got a 
diagnostic test which proved that the windscreen replacement did cause the problem, theyd 
repair it and refund the test cost.
Mrs W spoke to a manufacturer garage about this but decided that such a test was unlikely 
to show when the problem happened. So she didnt want to potentially waste money on 
doing that. 
I can understand that, and I can see that this has been frustrating for Mrs W. But as the 
investigator also explained, we must rely on expert evidence provided to us. And as Mrs W 
hasnt shown us any independent evidence that the problem was caused by the windscreen 
replacement, I cant say that the AA acted unfairly in deciding as they did. I also understand 
that a garage diagnostic test may not be conclusive about causation. But it may be possible 
for Mrs W to obtain, instead of a garage diagnostic test, a report from an expert independent 
engineer as to whether in their opinion the windscreen replacement caused the problem. I 
think that it would be fair for the AA to reimburse her the cost of such a report as they have 
agreed to pay for the diagnostic test. 
However on the evidence they have now I cant say that the AA have done anything wrong 
and so I dont require them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
