DRN-4530574
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she experienced distress, inconvenience and lost interest due to The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) losing her cheque.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 12 December 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 2 January 2024. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she experienced distress, inconvenience and lost interest due to The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) losing her cheque.
What happened
On 21 September 2022, having moved from Country A to the UK to be closer to her family 
for health reasons, Mrs G visited an RBS branch to deposit a cheque for £752,610.49 from 
her overseas bank. 
As this was a GBP cheque, drawn on a foreign bank, RBS needed to apply their foreign 
cheque process which takes 6 to 8 weeks for an account to be credited with the funds. 
It was originally Mrs Gs intention to invest the entire sum, so this clearance process meant 
she would be delayed in earning interest. 
RBS unfortunately misplaced Mrs Gs cheque and although they worked with the overseas 
bank they stated a lack of action caused a long delay resulting in Mrs Gs account not being 
credited with her funds until 23 January 2023. RBS accepted they misplaced the cheque and 
said they were deeply sorry.
Mrs G complained to RBS about the loss of interest and their communication and 
accountability that caused significant distress.
RBS wanted to put matters right and agreed to pay interest and compensation.
Regarding interest, RBS calculated 83 days as the period Mrs G didnt have access to her 
funds and should receive interest. They calculated this number of days by working out the 
earliest the cheque would have cleared as being the 2 November 2022, which is 6 weeks 
after the cheque deposit. They acknowledged Mrs Gs intention to invest her funds and 
increased their interest offer, crediting her account with £9,000.33 using an exceptional 
annual interest rate of 5.259% rather than the 1.5% her account would ordinarily attract.
Regarding compensation, RBS offered £1,000 for the time, stress and inconvenience 
caused plus an inward payment fee refund of £7.
Mrs G was dissatisfied with the RBS redress. She considered the interest to be inadequate 
as she had information that had her funds been in the planned portfolio investment she 
would have attracted a far greater return.
Mrs G complained to our service pointing out that she had told RBS that contrary to their 
belief, her investment loss was not speculative and that she was looking for interest and 
redress compensation totalling £30,000.
Our investigator viewed Mrs Gs planned portfolio and said RBS should increase their 
compensation offer by £4,150. 
Mrs G accepted this, but RBS disagreed. So, this complaint has been referred to me to look 
at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator. Im still upholding this complaint, 
but Im increasing the award and Ill explain why.
RBS dont dispute that theyve made mistakes here, so whats left for me to decide is what is 
a fair and reasonable amount of interest and compensation to put this right. 
I have also come to the view that the interest RBS have offered is insufficient. This is 
because there is verified evidence, in the form of a stocks and shares portfolio being pre-
planned in advance of the cheque being deposited, and then executed as per the plan, once 
the funds were cleared. And, importantly, detailed analysis of the portfolio data shows that 
Mrs Gs funds would have grown by more than the amount offered by RBS.
I acknowledge RBSs comment that their 5.259% offer is extremely fair and significantly 
more than the 1.5% interest on accounts at that time. However, Mrs Gs stocks and shares 
portfolio evidence shared with RBS shows that, contrary to their initial view, this was not a 
consequential/speculative loss and was an actual plan that materialised once she had her 
funds. 
As Mrs G decided to invest £498,659 of the £752,610.49 cheque, which was less than 
originally planned in her stocks and share plan, it wouldnt be fair to ask RBS to pay a higher 
amount than 83 days of 5.259% on the remaining £253,951.49. 
With regard to the amount of interest Mrs G should receive, as there is verified evidence that 
the £498,659 wouldve attracted 2.63% between the period 2 November 2022 and 19 
January 2023, I require RBS to pay Mrs G an additional amount of interest of £7151.36 as 
set out in the following table: 
Description Amount Interest Rate Interest Amount
Amount invested in stocks & 
shares gaining higher interest 
than offered by RBS£498,659 2.63% £13,114.73Amount that would have 
earned RBS interest rate£253,951.49 83/365 x 5.259%   £3,036.96
Total £752,610.49 £16,151.69
Less amount already paid by 
RBS on the full cheque 
amount- £9000.33
£752,610.49 x 5.259% for 83/365 days
Interest to be paid £7151.36
This is different to our investigators calculation of £4150 as I noticed an error in his view.
I also considered RBSs service failings, which they also do not dispute, and whether the 
£1,000 compensation they provided for the time, stress and inconvenience caused was fair 
and reasonable for a customer who, due to a combination of her age and circumstances 
(moving from Country A to the UK for health reasons), Im satisfied meets the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) definition of vulnerability.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for 
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest. Also, there are rules 
(known as DISP Rules) laid down by the FCA which mean complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. So, specific complaints about how RBS manage complaints cant be 
considered by our service.
There is limited information on file as to what RBS did to assist and support a vulnerable 
customer and how they calculated the £1000 compensation they paid to Mrs G. Mrs G feels 
the amount of compensation is insufficient and provides persuasive testimony of significant 
distress, upset and worry.
Mrs G describes a tortuous experience and explains how this impacted on her mental 
health and left her feeling tired and vulnerable. She describes the stress, deterioration on 
her mood and health which she feels was caused by her interactions with RBS and a lack of 
thought, support, reassurance and help having raised the issue in November 2022.
She explains the intense fear that I may never retrieve my funds severely impacted my 
mood, led to a loss of sleep and my feeling very depressed and powerless. This was 
compounded by the frustrating hours I spent trying to contact bank staff via phone and email 
and I have no doubt has led to a permanent deterioration in my health.  
Also, as all her funds were missing, she faced immediate difficulties paying bills and meeting 
other short-term commitments.
Having considered the above, Im satisfied that RBS were made aware of Mrs Gs 
vulnerability and the limited RBS information on file supports Mrs Gs persuasive testimony. 
So, when considering the impact on Mrs G over a number of weeks, her vulnerable position, 
I think RBS compensation payment should be higher and Im awarding £1500.
So having considered all the above Im upholding this complaint and I require The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs G:
Additional interest of £7151.36
Additional compensation of £500
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. I 
require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs G:Additional interest of £7151.36
Additional compensation of £500
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 2 January 2024.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both parties the opportunity to provide any comments or 
new information they might wish me to consider, before I moved to a final decision. 
I would like to thank both parties for responding before the deadline.
Neither party had any additional information. However, RBS had some comments. They 
consider the provisional decision to be unfair. This is because they believe they paid over 
the maximum interest Mrs G could receive. Also, they questioned how another £500 
compensation can be justified on top of the £1,000 which they consider to be a very high 
award of compensation for the error that was made.
In light of RBSs comments, I reviewed the file again.
Regarding Mrs Gs lost interest, I would consider RBSs interest offer to be fair if Mrs G had 
been planning to either leave her funds in her bank account or deposit her funds in a savings 
account. However, in this case, Mrs G had clear plans for her funds to generate a much 
higher return than her bank account or a savings account. And, she has been able to 
demonstrate evidence of this intention. Also, evidence of the performance of her portfolio, 
which I have looked at very closely, shared with RBS and given them the opportunity to 
comment on.
So, I do recognise that RBS have tried to put things right. However, their compensation offer 
wouldnt be fair on Mrs G, as it wouldnt put her back to the position she wouldve been in 
had RBS not lost her cheque.   
Regarding assessing compensation, I appreciate it isnt an exact science. As mentioned, our 
approach when making awards for non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to 
be modest. And, when reviewing RBSs offer, I again recognise their attempts to put things 
right with a £1000 offer. 
However, when I considered an appropriate amount of compensation, I looked at both the 
error and the impact on Mrs G. I again read Mrs Gs testimony, which I found persuasive, 
alongside the information on file and FCA guidance on vulnerable customers. And having 
done so, Im still of the opinion that RBSs error and subsequent level of service had a 
significant impact on Mrs G, who I think was left in a vulnerable position for a number of 
weeks because she didnt have her funds or know what had happened to them. 
My provisional decision only details some of the impact described by Mrs G and, in addition 
to the difficult position she found herself in, the poor level of service she received when she 
contacted RBS added to her distressing experience. I also found that she experienced inconvenience and a significant loss of confidence. So, Im satisfied that this was a serious 
error with serious repercussions. 
Considering everything again, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision 
Im still upholding this complaint and I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs G:
Interest of £16,151.69 less £9000.33 already paid (an additional £7,151.36)
Compensation of £1500 less £1000 already paid (an additional £500)
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs G:
Interest of £16,151.69 less £9000.33 already paid (an additional £7,151.36)
Compensation of £1500 less £1000 already paid (an additional £500)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman