DRN-3436430
The complaint
Mr M complains that the loan he had from Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) 
was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M had a £500 loan from Dot Dot Loans on 18 September 2020. His scheduled 
repayments were £95.12 per month for nine months, but Mr M only made one repayment. 
The loan was due to be repaid on 21 May 2021 but was sold to a debt collection agency on 
26 October 2021.
Mr M says Dot Dot Loans should not have approved the lending as he could not afford the 
repayments and is now behind with his car finance and insurance payments. He says Dot 
Dot Loans didnt do enough to ensure the loan was affordable and his credit score is getting 
worse as a result.
Dot Dot Loans says it asked Mr M about his income and expenditure and checked his credit 
record. It says it verified his income and reviewed the expenditure using statistical averages 
as guidance. Dot Dot Loans says it found Mr M had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Dot Dot Loans had carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing in the 
available information to indicate that further checks were required or that the repayments 
were unsustainable.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that he did not agree with the adjudicators view and 
requested for the loan to be removed from his credit file once it had been repaid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Dot Dot Loans was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
When Mr M applied for this loan, Dot Dot Loans asked him about his income and 
expenditure and checked his credit file, including short-term loans. Further checks were 
carried out to establish whether the declared income and expenditure figures were 
reasonable. Dot Dot Loans adjusted Mr Ms declared expenditure figure up from £399 to 
£728 but was satisfied his declared income was reasonable based on its checks.
Im satisfied these checks went far enough in the circumstances because:
This was Mr Ms first loan with Dot Dot Loans;
The scheduled repayments were less than 8% of Mr Ms verified income;The credit check showed no defaults, no County Court Judgements, no repayment or 
debt management plans and no active short-term loans;
Dot Dot Loanss checks showed Mr Ms total debt was just over £7,700, with an 
existing loan balance of £6,300;
Dot Dot Loans calculated Mr M had disposable income of £572 with which to make 
the £95 repayments.
As Mr M lived with his parents, hed said the loan was for a holiday and his total debt wasnt 
unreasonable, I find the checks were proportionate for a £500 loan which was to be repaid 
over nine months. I cant see there was anything in the available information to indicate that 
Dot Dot Loans should have carried out further checks and, based upon Mr Ms calculated 
disposable income, I consider the repayments were sustainable for him.
I acknowledge that Mr M has requested for the loan to be removed from his credit file once 
hes repaid it but, as this service is not upholding the complaint, we cannot compel Dot Dot 
Loans to do that. However, Mr Ms credit file will be updated to reflect he has repaid the loan 
once he has done so.
In summary, I dont find Dot Dot Loans was irresponsible to have approved the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman