DRN-3699749
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society have allowed a third party company to take 
a direct debit from his account despite him cancelling the direct debit with Nationwide.
What happened
Mr A cancelled a direct debit with Nationwide due to the amounts being unreliable and 
disputed. But he says the third party company reinstated the direct debit and took the 
money. Mr A says this happened twice. Mr A made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide did not uphold the complaint. They said that the cancellation of the direct debit 
was put through on 28 November 2021. But while Mr A informed them of the cancellation, if 
he didnt inform the third party company as well, then the third party would still hold an active 
mandate. Nationwide said this is why within the Direct Debit Guarantee it specifically says 
You can cancel a Direct Debit at any time by simply contacting your bank or building 
society. Written confirmation may be required. Please also notify the organisation.
Nationwide also said that when a direct debit is set up, it is an agreement between Mr A and 
the third party company. They said a mandate is an authoritative command, so Mr A gave 
permission for that company to take payments from his account. They dont and cant cancel 
this when Mr A calls to request a direct debit to be cancelled, which is why Mr A would need 
to inform the company directly to cancel the mandate between him and them, so they no 
longer have the authority to take the payment. Nationwide said that the direct debit had been 
cancelled on their end, but the third party company still had an active mandate, which is why 
the Direct Debit Guarantee specifies that you contact the organisation. Nationwide urged Mr 
A to contact the third party and cancel the direct debit with them as they may still attempt to 
take the payment. Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr As complaint. He said that when cancelling a direct debit, 
Mr A must cancel it with the bank or building society and the company holding the mandate 
to ensure that the payment is not taken. As the third party company still held a direct debit 
mandate, they had authorisation from Mr A to collect amounts from his account and as such, 
our investigator hadnt seen any information to show Nationwide made any errors when 
honouring his direct debit payments. 
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that the Direct Debit Guarantee says please also notify us. He said this 
is a mere request not a requirement. He said when a consumer cancels their direct debit, the 
bank actions the cancellation, and notifies the company concerned. The company therefore 
knows the direct debit has been cancelled, and that the original authorisation of the direct 
debit has been rescinded. Mr A informed us of his disability. He said the stress, pressure 
and uncertainty placed upon him when something like this happens had impacted his health 
as he did not know that the refund would be effected at all. He said his disability brings with it 
a fear of telephoning and general contact with bureaucratic organisations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything that Mr A has told us about how his disability affects him. So Im aware 
how it can cause him stress, pressure and uncertainty by having to deal with these things. 
Ive considered whether Nationwide have acted as I would expect them to in these 
circumstances. And Im satisfied they have, and Ill explain why. 
Mr A wanted to cancel the third party direct debit on two occasions. And Nationwide actioned 
this on both occasions. But the third party company set up the direct debit again. Ive read 
what Mr A has said about Nationwide contacting the third party to notify them that the direct 
debit instruction has been cancelled, however, Nationwide have confirmed to me that they 
dont directly contact a company to let them know a direct debit has been cancelled. 
As such, if Mr A didnt contact the company directly to cancel the direct debit (and I 
understand the reasons why he didnt do this) then the third party company may only find out 
that the direct debit has cancelled when they start the direct debit process of getting the 
payment This is done before the payment due date. The third party will not know the reason 
for the cancellation and will set up a new direct debit in its place.
If the third party company want to set up a direct debit again which has been previously 
cancelled, if they have their customers details, they can submit this request electronically 
and provided the details match, the direct debit will be set up. This is one of the reasons why 
it is recommended that Mr A would contact the third party company also when cancelling a 
direct debit.
As Mr A has said that he was in dispute with the third party company, this is why the third 
party company will have likely set up the direct debit again - if there is contract in place for a 
fixed term with Mr A, a direct debit cancellation would not mean that the contract would end 
because a direct debit has been cancelled. The Direct Debit Guarantee states it cannot be 
used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
Nationwide have also confirmed to me that as the direct debit was cancelled on both 
occasions on their end, the third party did not reactivate the cancelled direct debit, but a new 
direct debit had been set up. 
Nationwide would not be aware of any contracts which have been agreed between their 
account holder and third party companies. So if Mr A wants to cancel a direct debit in the 
future and he doesnt notify both Nationwide and the third party company, he should be 
aware this could happen again. He should also be aware that Nationwide may also refuse to 
process a refund under the Direct Debit Guarantee in the future if it relates to a dispute, 
therefore, it would be advisable for Mr A to inform the third party of the cancellation also. 
I understand this may cause problems due to Mr As disability, so he may wish to see if there 
are any alternative ways he can contact a third party company, such as by email if he would 
find this easier to contact them.  But as Nationwide actioned his direct debit cancellation 
request on both occasions, I cant say that Nationwide have done anything wrong here. So it 
follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman