DRN-1818721
 
The complaint
Mr A and Ms F complain that Leeds Building Society ("LBS") mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
Mr A and Ms F took out a mortgage with LBS in 1999. At the same time they bought a PPI 
policy which would have helped cover their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a 
time if either of them couldn't work due to an accident or sickness. It would have paid half of 
their mortgage repayments if either of them couldn't work, or all of the mortgage repayments 
if both of them couldn't work.
Mr A and Ms F say they were told the PPI was compulsory. They say they didn't need it.
The adjudicator who first reviewed Mr A and Ms F's complaint didn't think it should be 
upheld. Mr A and Ms F disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We've set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and I've taken 
that into account when deciding this case. Having done so, I'm not upholding Mr A and Ms 
F's complaint. I'll explain why I've reached this decision. 
It's over 21 years since Mr A and Ms F took out the mortgage and PPI. Unsurprisingly 
neither party has retained all of the documents from the time. Mr A and Ms F say they were 
told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. LBS says it wasn't a condition of the 
mortgage. 
LBS has provided sample copies of the documents which were in use at the time. The 
mortgage application form has a separate section for PPI. It makes it clear the cover is 
optional and provides various options for the cover. There is a separate option to say that 
PPI isn't wanted and that the customer understands the consequences if cover isn't taken. 
I think it's likely Mr A and Ms F completed this form. I haven't seen anything to suggest LBS 
did something differently for Mr A and Ms F than they did for other customers. I'm satisfied 
that Mr A and Ms F bought the PPI understanding the PPI was optional, even if they don't 
remember doing so now.
LBS recommended the PPI to Mr A and Ms F, so it had a duty to check it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr A and Ms F's circumstances at the time I think it was right for them. I say this 
because: 
Mr A and Ms F were both eligible for the cover and wouldn't have been affected by 
any terms which might have made it more difficult for them to make a successful 
claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions;
Mr A and Ms F were both self-employed, so they wouldn't have had any contractual 
sick pay available to them;
Mr A and Ms F say they had savings available to them which they could have used to 
make their mortgage repayments. But the PPI would have meant they could use 
those savings for other uninsured expenses. And it seems that the savings were 
partly held to pay tax bills, and partly to cover periods when they weren't working in 
their freelance roles. 
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible because it could be cancelled at any time without a 
financial penalty. And I haven't seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr A 
and Ms F.
LBS also had to make sure Mr A and Ms F had enough information about the policy to make 
their decision. It's possible LBS didn't provide them with all the detail. But I don't think this 
would have made a difference to their decision to buy it, because it was suitable for them in 
the way I've described. 
So I don't think Mr A and Ms F lost out as a result of anything LBS did wrong.
 
My final decision
I'm not upholding Mr A and Ms F's complaint so it follows that Leeds Building Society doesn't 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman