DRN-3015479
The complaint
Ms P brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late mother, Mrs S. She says National 
Savings and Investments (NS&I) made unreasonable requests and took an unacceptable 
amount of time to settle Mrs Ss account, preventing her from settling the estates affairs.
To resolve her complaint she required NS&I to return the £215 Grant of Probate (GOP) 
application fee she had to pay along with compensation for the distress it caused her.   
What happened
Mrs S held an index-linked investment savings account with NS&I. She sadly passed away 
in July 2020. 
On 8 September 2020, NS&I received a completed bereavement claim form from Ms P. 
On 22 September 2020, it issued a letter to Ms P explaining that in order to settle the 
account, it required a copy of Mrs Ss will and death certificate. Ms P supplied this to NS&I 
on 1 October 2020 along with a covering letter dated 30 September 2020. In that letter she 
explained that her late sister and step-father, Mr S, were also executors of the will. 
On 15 October 2020, NS&I wrote to Ms P again, to explain that it needed either an original 
copy of the will, or an appropriately certified copy. 
On 27 October 2020, Ms P wrote to NS&I with an emailed certified copy of Ms Ss will. She 
also complained that it took several weeks from the return of the documents to tell her 
further information was needed. She questioned why this could not have simply been told to 
her with the returned will and death certificate. In the interim, she had tried to call NS&I 
several times but had never been able to get through as the waiting times were excessive. 
NS&I acknowledged the complaint the following day. Ms P sent further chaser emails to 
NS&I dated 5 and 11 November 2020. NS&I tried to call Ms P on 12 November, but she 
emailed the following day to explain she could not take calls during the working day. 
On 17 November 2020, NS&I issued a final response to Ms Ps complaint. It said it upheld 
the complaint in part. In respect of the call waiting times, it offered an apology. But it did not 
think that aspect of the complaint should succeed. It explained it had reduced staff due to the 
application of public health guidance on working during the outbreak of Covid-19. And this 
had an unfortunate impact on the number of people available to answer customer calls. 
NS&I also explained that it couldnt have told Ms P that it needed further information on 
receipt of the evidence she supplied on 1 October 2020. That was because the 
administrative department that received the documentation merely scanned it and did not 
have access or information about the claim - that was proprietary to the bereavement team.  
However, NS&I did accept that it should have told Ms P sooner that it required a GoP. This 
was the case because there were multiple executors and Mrs Ss estate was not a small 
estate under £5,000. It explained it was complying with the relevant provisions of the 
Administration of Estates (Small Payments) Act 1965. However, it could have reiterated that 
requirement earlier than it did, when it asked Ms P for the relevant additional information 
such as the certified copy of Mrs Ss will. It therefore offered Ms P £75 for the upset this 
mistake had caused.   
  
As required, Ms P obtained a GoP dated 3 December 2020 and she forwarded it to NS&I on 
8 December 2020. The estate was settled on 17 December 2020 when the funds paid to the 
nominated account of Mr S.  
Thereafter, Ms P brought the complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint and she thought it ought to succeed in part. She 
didnt think NS&I had been unreasonable in requiring a GoP, once it became apparent that 
Ms P was not the only executor of the estate. However, she agreed it caused upset, and 
given how it had prolonged matters unnecessarily she felt the offer of compensation should 
be increased to £150.  
NS&I said it accepted the investigators proposal and agreed the payment was warranted. 
However, Ms P said she didnt agree. She issued detailed submissions, the contents of 
which I have read in their entirety. I will not repeat them full here, as it covered both her 
disagreement to the complaint and wider service matters which are not the subject of this 
determination. In relation to this complaint, she said:
the emails on the file show that the call wait times were an hour, not the 30 minutes 
the investigator suggested;
this was not standard across the financial services industry and she has experience 
of that industry;
in her view, the poor customer service was not because of limitations on staffing 
following the outbreak of the global pandemic, but indicative of a failing organisation 
that had recently significantly reduced both interest rates and premium bond odds;
she was one of a multitude of customers that wanted to withdraw money but couldnt 
get through to NS&I;
it was confirmed in a mainstream news outlet reporting on NS&I in December 2020 
that the governments Treasury Committee had sought answers for the anxiety it had 
caused customers in recent months  of which she was one;
the investigators findings regarding the GoP were wrong;
a GoP simply confirms an executors authority to deal with the estate and has no 
bearing on how the assets are distributed;
in any event, there was no conceivable beneficiary that would or could contest the 
distribution of Mrs Ss estate;
Mrs Ss will had provided for three executors, but Ms Ps sister had already passed 
away;
the funds from Mrs Ss account were to be distributed in accordance with the will to 
the other surviving executor, Mr S;
she therefore failed to understand why NS&I insisted on a GoP when she was 
carrying out the terms of the will in favour of the other executor;
she disagrees with the findings of our investigator on that basis;
she does not dispute that NS&I has the direction to set its own rules as to what 
documentation or evidence it requires to satisfy payment of an account when the 
account holder passes away;
however, she feels NS&I did not need to do so given the requirements of Mrs Ss will 
 and therefore the direction should not have been exercised;it is baffling to her that the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot consider 
compensation to her directly when considering the impact of NS&Is behaviour in 
settling Mrs Ss account;
she was a beneficiary of the will as well as an executor and the only surviving child of 
Mrs S;
in her view, when Mrs S passed away, the customer relationship passed to her;
the contention that the estate has that relationship rather than her is insulting.  
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to pass my condolences to Ms P. I realise this matter has 
been upsetting for her and that she continues to be going through a difficult time. 
Having reviewed the matter carefully, I also believe the complaint should succeed in part. I 
will set out my reasons for reaching this view below.  
NS&I has confirmed that it believes legislation requires it to obtain evidence in the form of a 
GoP in the event there is more than one executor named in an account holders will. I do not 
find that to be an unreasonable position to take. I understand Ms P accepts this too, though 
she feels it ought to have exercised direction in her circumstances as the proceeds of the 
account were payable to Mr S, in accordance with Mrs Ss will.  
However, that was choice for NS&I to make, and I consider it to be a legitimate business 
decision to require a GoP in certain circumstances. I know Ms P has also questioned how 
this complaint would have proceeded if she had approached us without the relevant GoP. To 
aid Ms Ps understanding, Ill explain how this service operates in that regard. 
We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to avoid the rules 
or apply discretion to certain rules. 
Complaints that are made to this service must be pursued by an eligible complainant (for 
example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and those complaints must be about acts or 
omissions by businesses when carrying out certain regulated activities  including the 
arranging, administration and managing of investments such as Mrs Ss investment account. 
A specific rule, DISP rule 2.7.2 R, allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an 
eligible complainant to this service, for example from an appointed representative or from an 
executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed away. However, that 
rule specifically requires that the person bringing the complaint on behalf of the eligible 
complainant must be either authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law.  
This complaint concerns release of the funds in Mrs Ss investment ISA held with NS&I. The 
late Mrs S is the eligible complainant for which Ms P is representing her estate. Mrs S left a 
will when she passed away in 2020, which named Ms P, Mr S and Ms Ps late sister as 
executors permitted to deal with Mrs Ss estate. 
To pursue a complaint at this service (for an estate worth over £5,000 in England and 
Wales) Ms P would need to obtain a GoP, because that documentation names the 
executor(s) and gives confirmed evidence that she is authorised by law to bring a complaint to this service on behalf of Mrs S. Without that evidence, the requirement set out above in 
DISP 2.7.2 R wouldnt have been met.   
I cannot therefore conclude that NS&I has acted unreasonably or unfairly in the 
circumstances by asking Ms P to obtain a GoP to provide the required evidence to release 
Mrs Ss ISA funds to Mr S. I dont believe that the fact Ms P doesnt benefit from those funds 
means it ought to waive what it believes is a legal requirement. 
I therefore dont agree the cost should be returned to Ms P  even if I could make an award 
of that nature. I cant fairly hold NS&I responsible for reimbursing Ms P for costs she was 
always liable to pay. I also consider that NS&I did reasonably apologise and it set out a clear 
explanation in the response to the complaint as to why it needed a GoP. 
NS&I also did not realise in the first instance that Ms P was not a sole executor. On the 
bereavement claim form it received on 8 September 2020, Ms P was asked to please give 
full name of the executors as shown on the will to which she set out her own details. Mr S 
wasnt included on the form. When she contacted NS&I again on 1 October 2020, Ms P put 
that right  she then explained in her letter dated 30 September 2020 that there were three 
executors including herself, but that her sister had sadly passed away before Mrs S.  
NS&Is principal mistake was that it failed to recognise Ms P had updated it about the 
executors. If it had done this, it could have avoided asking her for a certified copy of the will. 
Thats because in the circumstances a GoP was now required to settle Mrs Ss account - 
which superseded the requirement to obtain a certified copy of the will. 
NS&I was in an informed position, and it should have told Ms P about the next steps. Instead 
it continued to ask her for the will certification on 15 October 2020 and thereafter, only 
putting matters right in respect of the GoP on 17 November 2020. In the interim, Ms P was 
put to more trouble and inconvenience because she tried to place several calls but was 
unable to speak to anyone because the call waiting times were unreasonably long.  
I know Ms P feels strongly that our investigator has misunderstood the impact or length of 
the call wait times  but that isnt the case. The email Ms P sent on 27 October 2020 said, 
when attempting to contact you by phone I have been put on hold for over 30 minutes on 
each occasion until I eventually gave up. That email was referenced by the investigator. 
However, I also note that by 11 November 2020 this matter had worsened. Ms P then 
emailed NS&I to explain how queue times to speak to someone are 50, yes 50 minutes 
long, and have been consistently 50 minutes long for over a month now.
I can see how frustrating this was for Ms P. Unfortunately, I cant propose any payment of 
compensation that she has asked for because of the upset caused to her. That is not to say I 
dont recognise that it happened, but I do not have a free hand to make an award of that type 
directly to Ms P. I know this seems confusing for Ms P, but our rules do not allow it. 
Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in 
relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), those awards must be made to an eligible 
complainant, as explained above. And whilst a complaint can be made to this service by a 
representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a money award to the representative. 
In some instances, a beneficiary of an estate can be an eligible complainant in his or her 
own right  for example, in the case of an insurance policy set up by a complainant for the 
benefit of a family member. But that is not the case here. Mrs Ss will said that her estate 
proceeds will pass to Mr S, if he is alive at the time of her death. The estate only passes to Ms P in the event Mr S had also passed away beforehand. Ms P is aware of this as she 
confirmed Mr S as the sole beneficiary in her letter of 30 September 2020. Therefore, I 
cannot make an award to Ms P. 
In this case, matters were prolonged by four and a half weeks by NS&I failing to explain the 
need for a GoP once Ms P had corrected her explanation about the executors and 
evidenced this with a copy of the will (which no longer needed certifying) and that had an 
impact on settling Mrs Ss account for the benefit of the estate and the beneficiary, Mr S. 
NS&I has identified that it made this mistake, and that compensation should be paid to Ms P 
on this basis. I believe this a fair resolution in the circumstances.    
Putting things right
Taking Ms Ps comments and the evidence Ive seen into account, I agree that the £150 
already proposed is an appropriate award in these circumstances. NS&I correctly identified it 
caused a delay regarding the necessary GoP, which in turn impacted the time it took to 
settle Mrs Ss account. I am pleased to note that NS&I recognises this, and proposed to 
make the payment.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments (NS&I) should pay the estate of 
Mrs S £150 to represent the compensation it proposed, for the reasons stated above. I make 
no other award or direction.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman