DRN-3860071
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim he made 
under his household insurance following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr L held a household insurance policy with Aviva. On 14 July 2022, he contacted Aviva to 
ask whether it would indemnify him following an escape of water from a leaking pipe within 
the utility room in his house. 
Aviva asked Mr L for further information about the leak and informed him that his policy 
would covered resultant water damage from the leak and any damage caused by a plumber 
in tracing and accessing the leak provided there was already visible damage to the building. 
Aviva also explained that the policy wouldnt cover the cost of repairing the leak and that Mr 
L should contact his own plumber to ascertain the source of the leak and undertake any 
necessary repairs.
On 21 July, Mr L responded to Avivas request for further information. He said hed noticed 
the leak around a week before reporting the claim due to the sound of running water coming 
from underneath the sink in the downstairs cloakroom. He also stated that there was no 
indication of a leak having occurred above ground level and no visible water damage. And 
he told Aviva that hed instructed a contractor to attend his home.
Mr Ls contractor traced and accessed the leak to a pipe that was running underneath the 
floor. He said that once the sink pedestal had been removed from the affected room, he 
could see water running. The contractor also undertook remedial works to repair the pipe 
and reinstate the flooring and sent Mr L an invoice for just over £4500. 
On 15 August, Mr L submitted the invoice from his contractor to Aviva and asked it to 
reimburse him. But it repudiated his claim. It said it had made an error in telling Mr L his 
policy covered trace and access work. But it said it had also told him that such costs would 
only be recovered if there had already been visible damage. It said there was no visible 
damage to the building prior to the trace and access work taking place based on the 
information that Mr L had provided.
Mr L disagreed with Avivas repudiation decision and complained. He said there had been 
damage to his shower because of the loss of water pressure and water was running under 
his house, which he believed had reduced its value.
Aviva investigated Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. It maintained that there was no cover 
under the policy.  
Being dissatisfied with Avivas response to his complaint, Mr L referred it to our service 
where an investigator assessed what had happened. They didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they said Mr Ls policy didnt cover the cost of tracing and accessing the leak. 
And they didnt think Aviva needed to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Aviva accepted our investigators view of this complaint, but Mr L rejected it and requested 
an ombudsmans decision. So, Ive been asked to determine the fairest and most reasonable 
way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr L and Aviva for the 
level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the information 
provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr L or Admiral have made it isnt 
because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues  
an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. I want to assure Mr L and Aviva that, in considering 
this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here. However, Ive largely 
reached the same findings as our investigator for reasons that Ill set out below.
Here, theres no dispute that there was an escape of water within Mr Ls home. However, 
theres disagreement between Mr L and Aviva about whether his policy covers the trace and 
access work undertaken. Theres also a dispute over whether there was any visible water 
damage present prior to the trace and access work taking place.
Ive seen an invoice that shows Mr L has already incurred a cost of just over £4500 for trace 
and access work and repairs to his property. The work was extensive, taking almost 3 weeks 
to complete, and the invoice itemises the work undertaken as follows:
removal of the pedestal basin, washing machine and bench, taking up the utility room slate 
floor, screed and insulation to find the source of the water leak, replace the defective 15 mm 
cold feed copper pipe, replace the insulation, floor screed and slate tiling.
The cost of replacing the defective leaking pipe is £160 plus VAT. This wouldnt be 
recoverable under Mr Ls policy and it appears from correspondence that he accepts this. 
The remaining costs are trace and access related work, which Mr L would like Aviva to 
reimburse him. He believes these costs should have been covered under his policy. 
Its important to explain that if something isnt covered under a policy of insurance, I have no 
power to direct an insurer to settle a claim in favour of a policyholder as this didnt form part 
of the insurance contract when the policy was incepted.
I can see that Mr L was informed that his policy with Aviva would provide cover for trace and 
access work provided there was already visible water damage before such work was 
undertaken. Having considered the terms of Mr Ls policy Im satisfied that this was incorrect. 
Its clear from the policy documents that the level of cover Mr L purchased doesnt provide 
cover for tracing and accessing leaks. In such circumstances, I cant direct Aviva to settle a 
claim for tracing and accessing a leak following an escape of water.
Aviva has accepted it made an error when it told Mr L his policy covered trace and access 
work subject to the caveat it outlined. I agree with Aviva that its explanation to Mr L about 
the extent of cover could have been clearer. Had clearer information been provided, Mr L 
would have understood at the outset that he would not, under any circumstances, have been 
able to recover the cost of trace and access work.It isnt unexpected that a leaking underfloor pipe may require extensive trace and access 
work involving the removal of flooring. This can be very costly  as was the case here.
I recognise that Avivas error may have created a false expectation in Mr Ls mind about 
whether the cost of trace and access work might have been covered. However, having 
thought carefully about the impact of the error on Mr L, Im not persuaded the outcome 
would have been different had the error not happened. Ill explain why.
It was clear in Mr Ls mind that a pipe within his home was leaking. This couldnt be ignored 
by him and required investigation to determine the source of the leak and stop it. This was 
the case whether or not Aviva was going to settle the claim in Mr Ls favour.
Mr L says he should not have been instructed by Aviva to ask a plumber to attend his 
property. But Aviva couldnt see Mr Ls property at this time and, like our investigator, I think 
it was acting in good faith  using its best endeavours to offer guidance on how Mr L could 
have repaired a leak and prevented any damage that may have been occurring, which 
couldnt be seen, from getting worse. I cant fairly criticise Aviva for taking this approach.
At the point that Aviva informed Mr L to contact a plumber it had already made it clear that 
his policy wouldnt cover the cost of repairing the leaking pipe. Mr L had to instruct a 
contractor to undertake the repair. So, I think it was reasonable to infer that Mr L must have 
been aware that this was a cost hed have to incur himself whether or not trace and access 
work was covered under his policy. 
Mr L has argued that he may have undertaken less costly measures to trace and repair the 
leak had he known the cost would not have been covered by Aviva. However, it isnt 
possible to speculate about what action Mr L may have taken had the circumstances been 
different. I must assess this claim based on what actually happened and, taking the invoice 
of Mr Ls contractor into account, Ive no reason to think that the extent of work was 
unnecessary excessive.
Mr L appears to believe that he was misled by Aviva into believing the trace and access 
work would be recoverable. But I havent interpreted what Aviva told Mr L in this way. I say 
this because Aviva told Mr L in writing in unambiguous language that the trace and access 
work would only be covered if there was visible water damage before the work was 
undertaken. So, there had to be visible damage already present and I think that was clear.
Even if Mr Ls policy with Aviva had covered him in line with the guidance given at the outset 
of his claim, I wouldnt be able to fairly find that there was evidence of visible water damage 
and conclude that this claim should be settled. Ill explain why.
Aviva has explained that it would apply the dictionary definition of damage when assessing a 
claim for the reimbursement of trace and access costs. This defines damage as physical 
harm that impairs the value, usefulness, or normal function of something. 
It appears that Mr L is critical of this definition believing it to be overly restrictive. But, as the 
term damage isnt defined within Mr Ls policy, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
apply a dictionary definition when assessing damage.
Mr L said he became suspicious of a leaking pipe because he heard the sound of water 
running under the sink. He didnt say any visible water damage could be seen beneath the 
sink. He also said he noticed a reduction in shower pressure, which pointed to a leak.Mr L has argued that reduced water pressure falls within the dictionary definition of damage. 
But Aviva didnt agree with this and neither do I. I think it would be very difficult to conclude 
that a reduction in shower pressure constituted physical harm or damage. This can occur for 
many reasons  some of which are unrelated to a leaking pipe. And here, the tap and 
shower were temporarily affected rather than being directly damaged by the leaking pipe.
Its clear from what Mr L has told our service that water damage, seen on the photographs 
hes provided, was only visible after the sink pedestal was removed. This ties in with Mr L 
telling Aviva at the outset of the claim that there is no above ground indication of a leak 
having occurred. I can see from the business records Aviva provided that he repeated this 
in subsequent discussions about his claim.
For the reasons outlined, I cant fairly say Aviva should cover the cost of the trace and 
access work because this isnt covered by Mr Ls policy. And I havent been persuaded that 
Aviva should reimburse Mr L for the trace and access work as part of a compensation award 
given there was no visible damage present. Im therefore not going to direct Aviva to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
I realise Mr L will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Aviva informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr L any 
further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman