DRN-4000574
The complaint
Mr A complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was 
the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) purchase scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr A was the victim of a purchase scam.
Mr A thought he was purchasing two tickets for the final of a sporting event being held 
abroad. The seller/company was listing them through a well-known social media website. 
Mr A says the seller had a large number of followers on the social media site and appeared 
to have been regularly selling legitimate tickets. Mr A also says that friends had previously 
purchased tickets through this seller. Believing everything to be genuine Mr A paid £2,500 
for two tickets on 9 May 2022 to the bank details he was provided with. Mr A received a 
confirmation email advising that the tickets would be available in digital format around 7-10 
days before the event date.
Unfortunately Mr A had in fact paid money to a fraudster and never received the tickets.
Mr A, having realised hed been the victim of a scam contacted Monzo on 25 May 2022. 
Monzo logged the scam and reached out to the beneficiary bank (the bank where Mr A had 
sent his funds) to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Unfortunately Monzo 
received confirmation from the beneficiary bank on 10 June 2022 that no funds remained 
that could be recovered.
Monzo also considered whether Mr A should be reimbursed for his loss under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). 
Monzo isnt a signatory of the CRM Code but has explained that it is committed to applying 
the principles set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. Monzo said Mr A ought to have done more checks to make 
sure he was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.
Within its final response Monzo also paid Mr A £50 as compensation. £25 was for delays in it 
raising a complaint, and £25 was for the customer service it provided in relation to its 
customer support.
 
Unhappy that he hadnt been reimbursed, Mr A referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into Mr As complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. The 
Investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Mr As claim under the CRM Code. 
They didnt consider Monzo had been able to establish Mr A made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.
 
The Investigator recommended Monzo reimburse Mr A the funds he lost to the scam and 
pay additional compensation at 8% simple interest per year on that amount from the date it 
declined Mr As claim under the CRM Code. 
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, I 
have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of Mr As complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr A 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr A lost.
The money was taken from Mr As current account. Mr A has therefore been 
deprived of the use of those funds. So Monzo should also pay interest on the amount 
not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should apply from the 
date Monzo first declined to refund Mr A under the CRM Code, to the date of 
settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Monzo declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Monzo to 
establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those 
exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
After having carefully considered all of Monzos submissions, Im satisfied that it has not 
shown that Mr A made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was 
paying a legitimate seller or ignored an effective scam warning. I will go on to explain why I 
have reached this finding.Did Mr A have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
When considering this aspect, I am mindful that the test here is whether Mr A had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. 
It is important to note at this point, that Mr A didnt expect or want to be scammed. He 
thought he was purchasing tickets through a company that had a large number of followers 
on a well-known social media website. 
It isnt uncommon for the purchase of tickets for events to happen through social media. The 
seller / company had a number of followers on social media, appeared to specialise in ticket 
sales for a variety of events and had a presence on the social media site since mid-2021. 
Also, having carefully considered the price of the tickets, I dont find it was too good to be 
true and having looked at the communication Mr A had with the seller overall I can see why 
the seller appeared genuine to Mr A. 
While Monzo has argued that Mr A didnt have the physical tickets, the seller sent Mr A a 
confirmation email that the tickets would be in digital format and would be available around 
7-10 days before the event date. Again this isnt unusual, and I dont think Mr A would have 
had any cause for concern that something might be untoward. Mr A has said he was also 
reassured from looking at the history / interactions others had with the seller  and Mr A has 
provided some evidence by way of screen shots that support this. Having looked at this I can 
see why Mr A thought the seller was legitimate and that the seller was able to obtain the 
tickets for the sporting event.
I am also mindful that when Mr A received the details of the beneficiary account he had to 
make payment to, the account beneficiary name matched. I think this would have reassured 
Mr A that he was dealing with whom he thought was a legitimate person selling a legitimate 
item. 
Given the above and that Mr A could see who he was dealing with / paying, I consider he did 
have a reasonable basis of belief for believing that he was purchasing legitimate tickets. And 
in this case, I dont find there was anything unusual about the item for sale, such as the price 
or the seller, that should have given Mr A cause for concern at the time he made the 
payment. 
All things considered, I can see why Mr A thought he was dealing with a legitimate seller 
when making the payment. So Im not persuaded Monzo has shown that Mr A lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment for it to choose not to reimburse Mr A 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Did Mr A ignore an effective warning? 
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr A from becoming a victim of a 
scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide effective warnings to their customers.
 
The CRM Code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not 
should involve consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam.
 
I am also mindful that when Mr A made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). Mr A was making a payment of £2,500. In its submissions to this service, Monzo has said a 
new payee warning and a low friction warning was shown to Mr A. 
Having thought about this, Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning 
exception were not met. I say this because the low friction warning attempts to cover multiple 
scams. It tells its customer to stop if they were told their account is at risk, the offer sounds 
too good to be true, they havent double checked who they are paying, and they have been 
told to ignore warnings. 
But, in this case, Mr As account wasnt at risk, the offer didnt sound too good to be true and 
having received a confirmation of payee match  Mr A was satisfied he was paying the 
correct person. And Mr A hadnt been told to ignore any warnings.
So, while Monzo hasnt specifically said that Mr A ignored an effective warning and sought 
to decline reimbursement on those grounds, for completeness Im not satisfied Monzo can 
choose to decline reimbursement under this exception either.  
Did Monzo do enough to recover Mr As funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether Monzo 
took reasonable steps to recover Mr As funds once it was made aware he was the victim of 
a scam. But for completeness, I can see that Monzo did act promptly once notified of the 
scam but unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered.
The level of service Mr A received
Mr A was unhappy with the customer service he received from Monzo. Monzo 
acknowledged that there was an administration error and that it could have logged Mr As 
complaint sooner. And Monzo also acknowledged that when Mr A raised his concerns about 
the level of customer support he received after having fallen victim to a scam it could have 
done more for Mr A and directed him to its specialist team whose role focuses on customer 
well-being. In light of this, Monzo credited Mr As account with £50 compensation. Overall I 
think this is a fair amount and Monzo were correct to acknowledge it could have provided a 
better service to Mr A than it did. 
Summary
Overall, I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, Monzo hasnt established any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr As
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr A:
the money lost through this scam, that being the sum of £2,500; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo Bank Ltd 
originally declined Mr As claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mr As acceptance of my final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman