DRN-4054949
The complaint
Mr I complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt credited his account with money he deposited 
using an ATM.
What happened
Mr I says he used an ATM outside a Santander branch on the evening of 11 September 
2022 to deposit some cash. He says that after depositing the money into the machine it 
returned his card and then crashed with the machine no longer working. Mr I says the 
money was then not deposited into his account. He called Santander that same day to report 
the issue.
Santander looked into the matter and checked the records for the ATM Mr I used. It said 
there was no evidence that he had attempted a deposit and that the ATM was not over by 
the amount Mr I was claiming, so it said it would not be crediting his account with the 
disputed amount.
Mr I was unhappy with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. They explained that Santander had provided 
evidence to show that the ATM was out of service, but that was between 10 September and 
12 September, so Mr I could not have deposited the funds on the 11 September. The 
Investigator also noted that Santander had provided evidence to show that Mr I had not used 
his card at an ATM at all on the 11 September.
Mr I disagreed with these findings, he feels that Santander has fabricated evidence. As no 
agreement could be reached this case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings set out by our Investigator. Santander has provided 
clear evidence from its internal systems which show that the ATM at the relevant location 
was out of service between 16:47 on 10 September 2022 and 09:06 on 12 September 2022, 
so Mr I could not have attempted to deposit funds at this ATM on 11 September as he has 
claimed. 
Santander has also provided evidence to show that, when a card is put into an ATM, that is 
recorded on its systems, there is no evidence of Mr I using his card at an ATM on 11 
September 2022.
Mr I has said he thinks this evidence was fabricated by Santander, and has provided 
statements from a friend of his confirming that he tried to make the deposit. But I am 
satisfied that the evidence Santander has provided is legitimate screen shots from its 
internal systems, Ive seen nothing to suggest that this evidence has been tampered with in 
any way. And I note that Mr Is witness initially says the event took place on 13 September, 
and then changed their statement to say it was 11 September, so I do not feel this witness 
statement can be relied upon or that it outweighs the documentary evidence provided by 
Santander. Mr I has also provided photographs showing an out of service ATM, but given 
that Santander agrees that the ATM was out of service, these photographs dont change my 
view of this complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant agree Santander has done anything wrong. Im 
more persuaded by the records produced by the ATM machine and Santanders internal 
systems. As such, I cant say Santander needs to credit any funds to Mr I, as theres no 
record of any funds being deposited.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman