DRN-3063633
The complaint
Ms P complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled her
account.
What happened
Ms P took out a loan with RBS and has since experienced financial difficulties. She raised a previous 
complaint relating to the interest added to her loan since she began struggling to make repayments, 
however that complaint wasnt upheld by this service. However Ms P states that RBS agreed to 
retrospectively review the interest that had been added to her loan since March 2019 once the 
previous complaint was finalised and has failed to do this.
RBS considered her second complaint but didnt think that it had agreed to review the interest, and in 
any case, it commented that the previous decision had agreed that it hadnt acted incorrectly in 
applying interest to the loan.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He explained that he wouldnt be considering the interest 
added to the loan as that had already been considered in a previous complaint. However he said that 
he could consider whether RBS should have carried out a review of the interest as Ms P says it 
promised. He didnt think RBS had made an error in refusing to do this as last final decision confirmed 
that RBS was able to apply the interest, so he didnt think there was any need for RBS to go back and 
review the situation again.
Ms P disagreed. She said that RBS had provided a partial interest refund of £500 along with some 
other smaller interest refunds, which evidenced RBS had made a mistake. As Ms P remained 
unhappy with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
RBS doesnt now seem to be disputing that it agreed to carry out a review of the interest on 
the account following the final decision on the previous complaint. However it has now 
refused to do this as it says the issue of the interest added to the account was already 
considered by this service. So I have considered whether its decision to not carry out a 
further review was unreasonable in the circumstances.
RBS has previously carried out a review of the interest applied to Ms Ps account and didnt 
find that it had made an error. In the previous final decision issued by this service, it was also 
found that RBS hadnt made an error in applying interest to the account and that it didnt 
need to waive interest going forward. So while RBS didnt then go on to carry out a further 
review, as this had already been considered on more than one occasion, I dont think its 
likely the outcome of the review would have changed the situation.
In addition to this, RBS has already confirmed that it would only stop charging interest once 
the account was defaulted and referred to its recoveries team, which Ms P is keen to avoid. 
This again suggests to me that a further review is unlikely to have changed the interest being 
added to Ms Ps account or persuaded RBS to waive future interest on the account.
So while I can appreciate Ms Ps disappointment in RBS refusing to carry out a further 
review, I think the interest applied to the account had already been considered by both RBS 
and this service, so I dont think it was necessary for a further review to take place to look at 
the same issue again. And it follows that I dont think RBS needs to do anything further to 
put things right.
RBS has refunded interest to the account previously, but it seems this was to correct 
previous errors. And I dont think this means that RBS needs to carry out a further review of 
the interest they are charging or consider refunding interest correctly applied to the account 
under the terms of the agreement.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms P, who feels that she has had a particularly 
poor experience with RBS, but I hope my explanation has been helpful in explaining why I 
dont think RBS acted unreasonably in refusing to carry out a further review of the interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman