DRN-3702919
The complaint
Mr C complains that EUI Limited (EUI) unfairly increased his policy premium mid-term
because he changed occupation.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr C went online to update his motor insurance policy due to a 
modification hed made to his car. He wasnt able to make the change online and so called 
EUI instead. During the call he was asked about his occupation. When taking out the policy 
he was employed as a bank consultant, but he told EUI he now worked as an estate 
assistant. During the call the policy was also amended to include commuting as an insured 
activity.
The modification to the car resulted in a small additional charge of £9.50. But the 
occupation change meant an additional charge of £522.59. Mr C says he doesnt drive any 
differently and thinks this additional charge is excessive.
EUI says its premium assessments are based on its previous experience of claims for 
other customers with comparable details. It says it uses detailed statistical models, that 
study the past claims experience for similar customers. And the occupation of janitor, or 
maintenance staff, as a group have a considerably worse claims experience than Mr Cs 
previous occupation.
EUI says the premium it charges for this occupation reflects the additional risk it takes on 
as an insurance company. It isnt able to explain why it sees this increased risk for this 
occupation, but says the increased premium is purely due to the risk of higher claims costs 
and for no other reason.
Mr C still thought EUI hadnt been fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. He says our service doesnt generally consider for
insurers to charge for mid-term changes that arent fundamental changes in risk.
He thought the change in use to allow Mr C to commute to work, could represent a 
fundamental change. But EUI explained this change had actually had the effect of 
reducing the premium, albeit only slightly. Our investigator didnt think the additional risk of 
Mr Cs new occupation had relevance to his driving  but rather this related to the general 
risk posed by someone in that occupation.
Our investigator thought it was fair for EUI to assess Mr Cs premium based on the risk of 
his new occupation at renewal. At this point he would be free to shop-around and wouldnt 
be impacted by cancellation fees or the loss of a no-claims bonus. But he didnt think it was 
fair to charge an additional premium because of the change in occupation mid-term, as this 
wasnt relevant to Mr Cs driving.
EUI disagreed. It says the occupation change represents a fundamental change to the risk 
it was covering. Not just relevant to Mr Cs driving but also to the likelihood of a claim being 
made. It sent underwriting information to show the increased frequency and cost of claims 
when considering Mr Cs new occupation against his previous one. Our investigator didnt 
change his mind. So, EUI asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr Cs complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Let me explain.
My remit here is to consider the mid-term price increase applied by EUI and decide whether 
this was fair.
Its important that I make clear that were not the industry regulator. So, its not my role to 
determine how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or how much 
risk to attach to each of these when deciding on a premium. Insurance is essentially
an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, provided people are treated 
fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
An insurer will consider many factors when setting a premium. It will assess how likely it is 
that a policyholder will make a claim and how much they might have to pay out. Each 
insurer will go about this in its own way. So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a 
policyholder fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same as it would others with similar 
circumstances.
EUI has provided some information relating to its experience of average claim costs between 
Mr Cs old and new occupations. But it hasnt shared detailed underwriting information that 
would allow me to see that it treated Mr C as it would any other policyholder in a similar 
situation when it calculated the change in his premium.
Our investigator set out our general approach to considering whether a mid-term price 
increase is thought to be fair. I agree with this approach in these circumstances and Ive 
given thought to whether the changes represent a fundamental change in risk in order to 
justify a mid-term addition to Mr Cs premium.
The most significant impact on risk was due to Mr Cs occupation change. EUI says, the 
additional premium is purely due to the risk of higher claims costs and no other reason. I 
acknowledge its reasoning for the increase is based on a statistical analysis of someone in 
that occupation making a claim. But its not uncommon for policyholders to change their 
occupation over a policy year. Mr C was still the policyholder and living at the same address.
EUI agreed an annual contract with Mr C so it's not unreasonable to expect some minor 
changes within the policy year, which dont fundamentally alter the risk it has agreed to 
cover. I accept the cost of Mr Cs cover might increase at renewal to reflect EUIs risk 
assessment of his occupation. At this time Mr C will be free to decide if he wants to 
maintain his cover.
Mr C is only using his car to commute to his place of work not to use during. Using his car to 
commute to work reduces the risk he poses to EUI. So, because I dont think the change in 
occupation is relevant to Mr Cs driving, such as a change of car or address, and it doesnt represent a significant change in the circumstances  I dont think EUI treated him fairly by 
applying an additional premium mid-term.
I dont think EUI should have charged Mr C the additional premium for his change of 
occupation and this should be refunded. Im aware that Mr C says he had to use a credit 
card to pay for this increased cost as he didnt have the money to be able to pay out of his 
everyday funds. In the circumstances I think its fair for EUI cost of the interest charges he 
incurred to pay the additional premium.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint. EUI Limited should:
refund the additional premium charge for the change in occupation along with the
interest charges Mr C incurred on provision of proof.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
EUI didnt respond with any further information or comments. 
Mr C responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. He also explained that he 
hadnt incurred any interest charges as he had been able to obtain a credit card with 0% 
interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings, other than to remove the part 
about refunding interest charges. 
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that EUI 
Limited should:
refund the additional premium charge for the change in occupation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman