DRN-2953990
The complaint
Mr H complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited was wrong to decline a claim he
made on his motor insurance policy after the theft of his car.  
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen in November 2019. Mr H said the cars spare key was somewhere in
his home (having been put there by his girlfriend (Ms G) who lives abroad. Mr H told Calpe
in January 2020 that hed spoken to her and she said she thought shed mislaid the key
whilst at her home. Ms G confirmed that to Calpe shortly afterwards, but in a later call with
Calpes investigator, it seems she said shed left the key in Mr Hs home. When Calpe
received the police report of the theft in February 2020, it showed that Mr H had told the
police in November 2019 that the spare key was in the cars glovebox.
Calpe thought it was likely that Mr H had left the spare key in the car. It said a policy
exclusion required all keys to be removed when the car was unattended. It also said a claim
may not be paid if it or any part of it was false, exaggerated or fraudulent.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. He thought it shouldnt be upheld,
based what Mr H had told the police initially. Mr Hs solicitors said he was stressed at the
time and that his later account (of the key having been lost when with Ms G) was supported
by her. They said Calpe couldnt rely on the keys in car exclusion anyway, as it was a
significant one that hadnt been brought to Mr Hs attention when he bought the policy.
The investigator issued a second view requiring Calpe to pay the claim. He said he thought if
Mr H had been made aware of the exclusion, it was likely that hed have acted differently.
Calpe said it wasnt right to expect every policy exclusion to be highlighted. It said it had also
declined the claim on the basis that it or part of it was fraudulent, false or exaggerated, and it
asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, and made the following points: 
I thought it more likely than not that the statement Mr H made to the police was 
accurate, but I didnt think Calpe could rely on the keys in car exclusion. I said 
significant exclusions should be highlighted. I thought if it had been drawn to Mr Hs 
attention, he probably wouldnt have left a key in the glovebox.
I said I could see why Calpe was concerned about the many discrepancies in Mr Hs 
accounts of events. And I thought as it was more likely than not that a key was left in 
the glovebox, it was fair for Calpe to believe that Mr H had tried to mislead it. So I 
didnt think it was unreasonable for Calpe to decline to deal with the claim.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. 
Mr Hs solicitors noted that Id said Calpe couldnt rely on the keys in car exclusion. They
said he denied that hed been dishonest, but that even if I thought hed made false
statements, Calpe had no remedy following the Supreme Court decision in Versloot
Dredging VB and another v HDI Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG and others. They said
the Versloot decision established that collateral lies or fraudulent devices had no relevance
to Mr Hs right to recover. They said his claim was genuine, and not exaggerated, and he
gained nothing from any untruths he may have told that he wasnt entitled to anyway.
The solicitors said the false statement made in Versloot was found to be a reckless untruth
by the court. It found that the untruth was told due to fear of the claim being declined. But as
that fear was misplaced, it was irrelevant to the claim. In this case, they said if Mr H was
worried about the key being left in the car causing the claim to be declined, if the exclusion
didnt apply, his fear was misplaced. So any untruths on his part were irrelevant too.
Calpe remained of the view that the keys in car exclusion applied. It said in Versloot, there
was a genuine claim, and the lie in question was irrelevant to it. But in this case, in lying
about the location of the cars keys, Calpe said Mr H had tried to avoid a policy term that
would have excluded the claim. So the lie was relevant to the recoverability of the claim. It
also said the policy contained a term that precluded the recovery of a claim that was
supported by any fraudulent device. And it said Mr H had totally undermined his credibility
in relation to the entire claim by having lied extensively. 
I issued a further provisional decision as follows:
Our settled approach in cases where a keys in car exclusion is a reason for declining a claim
is that the exclusion wont apply unless it has been highlighted at the point of sale and in a
policy summary. So I remain of the view that Calpe cant rely on the exclusion in this case.
I think its reasonable for Calpe to conclude that Mr H has undermined his credibility, given
the various accounts that he gave about the spare key and its location. But I dont think
theres anything to show that the theft claim itself wasnt genuine. Nor do I think it was
exaggerated, as Mr H is only seeking the cars market value.
Our view on the effect of Versloot in these circumstances is that if the false information given
by a consumer doesnt affect whether the claim should be paid, or the extent of the payment,
it shouldnt be treated as fraudulent. In this case, had Mr H told Calpe that hed left the spare
key in the car, I would have said it should pay the claim anyway, as the exclusion doesnt
apply. It seems Mr H thought the exclusion would defeat the claim, which I think may explain
why he gave different accounts of the keys whereabouts to Calpe and to the police.
The term in Calpes policy that applies to fraudulent claims says that if a claim or any part of
it is supported by any fraudulent device, Calpe may cancel or avoid the policy and not pay
the claim. But I dont think the policy term overrides the effect of Versloot on cases of this 
type. I think Mr Hs behaviour fits the category of collateral lie or fraudulent device, as set out
in the Versloot decision. The court said that the extension of the fraudulent claims rule to
collateral lies and fraudulent devices would lead to unreasonably harsh outcomes.
I can see why Calpe doesnt think it should have to deal with Mr Hs claim, but I dont think
there are adequate reasons to depart from the established case law. Im minded to conclude
that Calpe should pay Mr Hs claim, in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions.
Im not minded to require it to pay Mr H compensation for distress and inconvenience (as the
investigator proposed) having considered all the circumstances surrounding the claim.
Mr Hs solicitors accepted my further provisional findings on Mr Hs behalf. Calpe queried 
why the keys in car exclusion should be highlighted over other significant exclusions. It also 
asked about highlighting it in the online sales process. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its our settled view that the keys in car exclusion should be highlighted at the point of sale. If 
Calpe wants to discuss the issue in general with this service, there are options available to 
do that. But this decision is only concerned with the specific details of Mr Hs complaint.
I remain of the view that the policy exclusion doesnt apply, as it wasnt highlighted to Mr H at 
the point of sale, but that the principles established in the Versloot decision do apply, as 
explained in more detail above. As Calpe hasnt said anything to make me change my mind, 
I still think it should pay Mr Hs claim, plus interest.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to pay his claim, in line with all other policy terms and conditions, and to add interest 
to the sum due, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
If Calpe thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so Mr H can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman