DRN-3589336
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with Vitality Health Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr T has private medical insurance with Vitality. He claimed on his policy for treatment of his 
sleep apnoea, however, this was declined. 
Vitality said the reason for this was because sleep apnoea is a chronic condition and that 
theres a specific exclusion for that. Our investigator agreed that this condition isnt covered 
by the policy. 
Mr T asked for an ombudsman to take a look at his complaint. He provided medical evidence 
from his surgeon to challenge Vitalitys comments about this being a chronic condition. Mr T 
also said the exclusion wasnt featured prominently within the policy terms and that sleep 
apnoea is treatable on the NHS  suggesting this should therefore be covered by his private 
medical insurance. And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied Mr Ts condition is not covered by 
his policy. And so, I disagree that Vitality has made an error declining his claim. Ill explain 
why. 
The relevant policy exclusion term says;
treatment of sleep apnoea, snoring,
insomnia or other sleep disorders or
treatment which results from, or is in any way
related to, these conditions
I think this term is clear in that Vitality will not offer cover for sleep apnoea, or anything 
related to sleep disorders. I think its almost irrelevant whether the condition is chronic 
because the above term is clear that it will not cover the condition Mr T suffers with.
Ive considered Mr Ts arguments about whether Vitality did enough to make this exclusion 
clear and I think it did. I say that because although the term is on page 20 of the policy terms 
and conditions, I also note that page 3 refers consumers to the policy exclusions listed. And 
so, Im satisfied this is readily accessible and not something hidden within the terms. Its 
important to note that insurers cant list every exclusion prominently, but for the purposes of 
my final decision, Im satisfied it did enough to make this clear to its consumers. 
It's for these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman