DRN-4055755
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined her claim for 
damage under her home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, reference to Miss A in this decision letter includes her son who 
has made representations on her behalf. Reference to Ageas includes its loss adjusters, 
agents, and representatives.
What happened
Miss As home suffered water damage in February 2022. Miss A and her son discovered 
water dripping from light fittings in the ceiling and this caused other damage. As a result, 
Miss A made a claim under her insurance policy. Miss A said that Ageas had advised her to 
have the roof repaired and to send the invoice. She said shed provided all necessary 
information to Ageas including photographic and video evidence. However, Ageas then 
declined the claim. Also, whilst it had obtained an expert report in May 2022, it didnt deliver 
its decision to decline the claim until August 2022.
Miss A was unhappy about the fact that Ageas had declined her claim as she didnt have 
enough money to fix the roof of her home. She was also unhappy about the delay in 
processing the claim and therefore referred her complaint to this service. The services 
investigator upheld the delay aspect of the claim and thought that there had been three 
months of avoidable delay in processing the claim. He recommended that Ageas paid £200 
in compensation in this respect.
On the substantive issue however, the investigator considered that Ageas hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim as he didnt think that storm conditions were 
the main cause of damage. Whilst he recognised that storm conditions had been present at 
the time of incident, there were no external signs of storm damage. As such, he considered 
that the damage was consistent with wear and tear. He also noted that the policy didnt 
provide cover for the water ingress which hadnt been caused by an insured peril.
Miss A remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether Ageas applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy, and generally acted in a fair and reasonable manner in handling Miss As claim. I 
dont consider that it did so in all respects, and Ill explain why. In reaching this decision, Ive 
also had regard to the submissions of both parties as follows.
Miss A said shed spoken to various Ageas representatives, two of whom told her to do 
temporary repairs and to the keep the receipt as it would pay. She said that shed employed 
a local roofer to carry out the temporary repairs and paid this herself; as we trusted you to 
get this sorted. Miss A said that the loss adjuster didnt see the damage and few days later 
you closed the claim off and brushed it under the carpet as you said it wasnt storm 
damage. Miss A complained and said that Ageas then re-opened the case and sent another 
representative and showed him all the evidence including the videos. He said that Miss A 
would hear about the claim within 10 days, however this didnt happen. Miss A emailed the 
new representative of Ageas every so often to ask him what was happening with the claim. 
He said was that he was waiting for Ageas to respond. As to the windows, Miss A said that 
these werent relevant and that the case was about the roof which needed fixing and 
happened at the time of the storm. 
In conclusion, Miss A said that as her home was insured with Ageas, she wanted it to fix the 
roof and the damage. She said: The point of insurance is [to] fix your house if you have 
cover not to con your money and say it wasnt damaged through the storm. Miss As 
representative set out health conditions from which Miss A was suffering.
In response, Ageas stated that it registered Miss As claim for potential storm damage to her 
home in February 2022. It said that it classified storms by using a standard industry 
definition, being high winds of 55 mph or more, resulting in structural damage or torrential 
or heavy rain or hail (more than 25mm in any one hour). It had considered the three 
questions asked in relation to claims of this nature. The first was whether there were storm 
conditions present on or around the time the damage occurred. The second was whether the 
damage was consistent with storm damage. The third was whether the storm conditions 
were the main cause of damage. It noted that if the answer to any of these questions was 
'no', then the claim wouldnt succeed.
Ageas accepted that the weather conditions at the relevant time for the relevant location had 
almost fulfilled the definition of a storm, and so it appointed surveyors to assess the claim. It 
said that the surveyors opinion was that there was no external damage and none that could 
be attributed to a storm event. It also said that the water ingress damage wasnt due to a 
one-off storm incident. Ageas didnt consider that there had been any delays in handling 
Miss As claim. It said that assessment was an essential part of the claims process and 
didnt consider that this had taken longer than appropriate. 
Having considered the parties submissions and evidence, I partly uphold Miss As 
complaint. I uphold the complaint about delays but not the complaint about Ageass decision 
to decline to pay out on Miss As claim for damage.
The starting point in such cases is the wording of the policy documents. I note that the policy 
covered Miss As home in the event of storm damage. Under the heading: Whats covered, 
the policy wording states: Well cover you for damage to your buildings caused by a storm. 
By a storm, we mean strong winds of over 55mph, or damage by extreme rain, snow or hail. 
Rainfall is extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour Under the heading Whats not 
covered, it states: We wont pay for rain or water damage to the inside of your buildings if 
the water gets into your house as a result ofwear and tear.
At the beginning of the policy booklet, it highlights some of the reasons Ageas wont pay out 
under the policy and this includes wear and tear. In this respect, the policy states that: 
Almost everything in your home will suffer from general wear and tear over time. You can 
extend the lifetime of your property and the possessions inside it by taking care of them and 
maintaining them. So, for example, from time to time it would be worth having your roof 
checked for missing or cracked tiles If you look after your property and something 
unexpected happens, thats when your insurance should be there to help. However, if for example, your roof leaks because you havent looked after it, thats when we may not be 
able to pay a claim.
In relation to the first relevant question, Im satisfied that the weather at the relevant time and 
location substantially fulfilled the definition of a storm event. On the second question, Im 
satisfied that the ingress of water is the type of damage which can be consistent with a storm 
event. On the third critical question however, Im satisfied that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the storm event wasnt the predominant cause of the damage to Miss As 
home. I recognise that its likely that there were two factors at play, namely heavy rain and 
historical wear and tear. What Im unable to say however is that storm was the predominant 
cause of damage on that date. Its more likely from the available expert evidence that the 
dormer windows or slates were damaged through wear and tear. There was some conflicting 
evidence as to what roof repairs had been carried out prior to and after the event. The 
likelihood however was that there was wear and tear needing attention prior to the storm, 
and that heavy rain simply highlighted this existing and predominant cause of damage. 
I appreciate that Miss A will be very disappointed by this finding. I also appreciate that the 
wording of insurance policies can at times be difficult to interpret. Such wording does 
however provide the basis of the agreement between the insurer and the insured person. In 
this instance, I consider that the terms and conditions were clear. The provisions about wear 
and tear are highlighted at the beginning of the policy. The expert evidence supports a 
finding that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in its application of the policy wording and in 
declining the claim in this instance. There is no alternative expert evidence to suggest 
otherwise. Unfortunately for Miss A, insurance policies dont cover damage caused by every 
event and in this case, Im satisfied that the damage wasnt caused by an insured peril. In 
conclusion, I cant say that the policy was interpreted unfairly or unreasonably by Ageas
As to delays however, I agree with our investigator that Ageas could have acted more 
promptly in conveying its decision to Miss A. The case notes show that its representative 
had been chasing Ageas for instructions and that it took several weeks for it to respond to 
him. As such, I consider that Ageas will have caused additional unnecessary stress and may 
have unreasonably raised Miss As expectations that cover was in place. I consider that 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this delay to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Miss As complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited and I require it to pay compensation in the sum of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman