DRN-2673480
The complaint
Mr K complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) did not 
contact him to offer help when he was using his credit card for gambling. 
What happened
Mr K had a credit card through Barclaycard for many years. In around November 2017 Mr K 
started to use the card almost exclusively on gambling websites. There were often numerous 
transactions on any given day and Mr K incurred cash transaction fees on payments made 
to gambling websites. This continued until around April 2020, when regulations were put in 
place that stopped gambling businesses from allowing consumers to use credit cards for 
gambling transactions. 
Mr K complained to Barclaycard in May 2020 and said it should have noticed his excessive 
gambling and should have contacted him to offer help. Mr K asked for all charges and fees 
on his credit card since November 2017 to be refunded. 
Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said it wouldnt contact Mr K about payments 
made on his account unless it was to check that the transaction was genuine. It said the 
credit card was Mr Ks and he could spend on the card however he wished. Barclaycard said 
if Mr K had contacted it about his worries, it wouldve been able to help him as it had a 
specialist team to help with gambling. It said all the cash advance fees and interest were 
charged correctly so it would not refund them.
Mr K was unhappy with the response from Barclaycard and complained to this service. Mr K 
said Barclaycard failed in its duty of care towards him, given the excessive levels of 
gambling transactions and changes in account usage. Mr K said he had to take out two other 
credit cards with other lenders to pay off the Barclaycard balance. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said ultimately a consumer can use their 
credit card as they see fit, within the terms and conditions, and this is what happened here. 
Mr K did not agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I know that Mr K hasnt asked this service to look at whether Barclaycard acted in line with 
its own terms and conditions when it charged cash transaction fees on the amounts paid by 
him to gambling websites. But, for completeness, Ive looked at this. And I can see that its 
clearly stated in the credit card terms that gambling transactions will be dealt with as a cash 
balance and it outlines the account usage fees that apply to cash balances. 
Theres no doubt that the number of gambling related transactions that were going through 
Mr Ks account on a monthly basis increased significantly from around November 2017. And 
there were times when Mr K was making a very large number of transactions on gambling 
websites in a single day. If Mr K had told Barclaycard that he had a problem with gambling 
and that he wanted some assistance with this, then I would have expected Barclaycard to 
take immediate action. But Mr K didnt let Barclaycard know that this was the case. 
I wouldnt expect Barclaycard to monitor Mr Ks day to day spending on gambling websites. 
And given that Mr K was, at that time, free to use his credit card on gambling websites as he 
saw fit, I wouldnt necessarily have expected Barclaycard to step in without Mr K asking for 
help. That being said, if there were obvious signs that Mr K was having difficulty managing 
his account, then I might have expected Barclaycard to contact him. So Ive looked at 
whether there was anything about how Mr K was managing his account that could 
reasonably have alerted Barclaycard to the fact that Mr K was experiencing some difficulties.  
From what Ive seen, Mr K appeared to be managing his account well during the period of 
time in question and so I cant see any reason why Barclaycard should have been alerted to 
any problems he was having. And Im saying his account was well managed for the following 
reasons: 
Mr K did not exceed his credit limit at any point during the period of time in question. 
Mr Ks monthly balance was often much lower than his credit limit. 
More often than not, payments made were above the minimum payment required.
Mr Ks account did not go into arrears during the period of time in question.  
I cant see that there was anything happening on Mr Ks account that could reasonably have 
prompted Barclaycard to contact him to discuss how he was managing his account. And I 
can see there were no credit limit increases on Mr Ks account during the period of time 
when he was making a large number of payments to gambling websites. Although I know my 
decision will disappoint Mr K, having taken everything into consideration, Im satisfied 
Barclaycard hasnt made any errors here and so I wont be asking it to take any action.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman