DRN-3504501
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with an interest charge levied on his credit card account by TSB Bank plc 
and the time it took the bank to respond to his complaint.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr P received a credit card statement from TSB which showed an 
outstanding balance of £900. Over the course of that month (and before the next statement 
was produced) a total of £903.63 was credited to his account, which included a small refund 
of £11.99 from a merchant for an item he returned. His September statement shows an 
interest charge of £18.39. Mr P feels this is unfair as hed made sufficient payments during 
August 2021 to clear the entire balance. He contacted TSB by phone on 4 September 2021 
about the charge and sent a letter of complaint dated two days later.
TSB acknowledged Mr Ps complaint on 14 September 2021 and sent its final response on 
23 September 2021. It said it had applied the interest in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. TSB also explained that a refund wouldnt count as a payment 
towards the balance unless the balance was reduced to zero. 
Mr P was unhappy with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to us and one of our 
investigators looked into it. The investigator agreed with TSB. He explained that as Mr P 
hadnt cleared his entire balance in July 2021 by the time the August statement had been 
produced, interest had begun to accrue which was then charged in September 2021. He 
said this was in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Our investigator felt that 
TSB had dealt with the complaint within a reasonable timeframe. 
TSB accepted what our investigator said but Mr P didnt. He said (in summary) the terms 
and conditions are small print and the lack of prominence is unfair. He believes the interest 
hes paid is too high because he thinks its been charged due to the refund not being treated 
as a payment to the account. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has provided copies of Mr Ps credit card statements from June to September 2021. 
These cover the period for which the disputed interest was charged. Each of the statements 
show a previous balance, a new balance, estimated interest and transaction list. They also 
contain useful information about how interest is calculated and how its possible to obtain an 
interest free period of up to 56 days. 
Each statement contains a summary box of key features which is to be read alongside the 
terms and conditions of the account. In the summary box against the heading interest-free 
period, it explains theres a Maximum 56 days [interest free period] for purchases if you pay 
the full balance shown on your previous and current statement on time. The next box down, 
headed Interest charging information explains, You will not pay interest on new purchases 
if you pay the full balance shown on your previous and current statement on time. 
I understand Mr Ps comments about information being contained in small print, but I dont 
think thats the case here. There are a lot of terms and conditions relating to the account but, 
in my experience, thats not unusual for credit cards. Mr P will have been asked to confirm 
hed read them when he took the card out. As Ive mentioned, TSB highlighted key features 
in the summary box on each statement clearly and in straightforward terms, so Im satisfied 
they were reasonably prominent and brought to his attention.
Looking at the statements, I can see that Mr P paid no interest in June 2021. This is because 
he started the month with a zero balance (presumably having paid Mays balance in full or 
not having used the card) and he paid the full balance by the due date. In other words he 
had paid in full both the previous and current statements. But each of the subsequent 
statements show outstanding balances, so interest accrued as set out in the summary box 
on each one. 
Mr P has said that he feels the interest hes been charged is due largely to the refund not 
being treated as a payment to the account. For the reasons Ive set out I dont think thats 
the case. Interest was charged because the statement balances were not repaid in full by 
the due dates. Im satisfied that the interest was applied in line with the terms of the account. 
Mr P says that TSB took too long to look into his complaint. He called the bank to query the 
interest charge on 4 September 2021 and followed up in writing on 6 September 2021. The 
bank investigated his complaint and sent its final response to the complaint within three 
weeks. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, but Ive not seen anything to 
suggest TSB has made an error in its handling of his account or his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman