DRN-2304056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that AWP P&C SA is responsible for mishandling their claim on a 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a policy that included cover for their central heating boiler. It provided for 
repairs up to a limit of £1,000.000 or  if the boiler was beyond economic repair (BER) - 
£500.00 towards a replacement. 
AWP was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to AWP, I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold AWP responsible for their actions.
In addition to the policy, Mr and Mrs A had a maintenance cover package with a facilities 
management company.
Mr and Mrs As boiler began to cause problems. They asked for help from the facilities 
management company and from AWP. But in January 2020, they paid over £2,000.00 for a 
new boiler to be installed. They complained to AWP that it should contribute £500.00.
AWP sent a final response dated 4 March declining such a payment. Unhappy with that, Mr 
and Mrs A brought their complaint to us the same day.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that a 
£500.00 contribution towards a replacement boiler was only payable when an AWP 
appointed engineer deemed it to be BER.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The repair value was over the £1,000.00 limit prescribed within the policy and meant 
that he would have had to contribute to the cost of the repair. Under normal 
circumstances the cover would not continue with the repair, as advised by the 
insurer's agent. The value of replacing the boiler would mean the repair was more 
than 50% of the quotes he obtained, for the same new boiler.
The boiler continued to break down, continued leaking and was totally unreliable, 
hence other major parts were fitted by the maintenance company. The insurers agent 
was kept advised of the breakdowns but did not offer to attend to do any further work.
Several experienced engineers did confirm what was needed to repair the boiler and 
disputed the repair suggested by AWP's repairer, hence they continued to replace 
parts. In such circumstances the cumulative repairs and the cost of these added to 
AWP's adviser cost, justifies the boiler being beyond economic repair
The boiler was beyond economic repair due to the cost of that repair and the fact that 
it would not have prolonged the life without further work being done, which happened 
during the intervening period and was done by the maintenance supplier.
He and Mrs A were also due to go on a holiday abroad for two weeks and an 
unreliable boiler running during that period would have been unwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following definition:
Beyond economic repair
The point at which our tradesperson considers the repair costs (taking into account 
the parts and labour required) to be more than the value of the boiler. The value is 
based on its date of manufacture, type and make and whether or not replacement 
parts are still available.
So the policy said that the opinion of AWPs tradesperson determined whether or not the 
boiler was BER. But I will consider whether AWP applied the policy term fairly.
The policy terms also included the following:
££ If your boiler is beyond economical repair or replacement parts are no longer 
available, we will also pay up to £500 in total (incl VAT) towards the labour and parts 
to replace the boiler, once we receive confirmation that the boiler has been 
replaced.
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs As boiler began to leak. And they contacted AWP.
On 6 December 2019, AWP inspected the boiler. Its note includes the following:
age approx. 13 years old last serviced in the last 12 months condition is good.
On arrival found boiler leaking. Traced leak to heat recouperator. New heat 
recouperator and pipe required. Job incomplete, further visit required to replace heat 
recouperator.
Mr A is adamant that the boiler was no more than ten years old. He hasnt provided any 
evidence of its age, but I accept what he says. If the boiler had been older then it mightve 
been of less value.
From its notes, I see that AWP ordered parts. That took longer than everyone hoped.
I havent seen any policy excess or fixed call-out fee. And AWPs file records that its 
tradesperson was asking Mr A for a payment. So I accept his statement that the repair was 
going to cost over the policy limit of £1,000.00 and the tradesperson was asking him to pay 
the balance.
So the repair was expensive keeping in mind the age and the likely cost of replacement of 
the boiler.
Nevertheless, the evidence shows that AWPs tradesperson didnt consider that the cost of 
repair was more than the value of the boiler. And theres not enough technical evidence to 
show that the tradesperson was mistaken.Indeed, Mr A later said the following:
[the facilities management company] then replaced the heat exchange unit and 
condensating pipe on 3rd of January 2019.
Since that date the boiler has continued to have leaks and failed to operate on a 
number of occasions.
So the facilities management company must also have considered that the boiler was 
repairable. And I find it likely that the work done by the facilities management company had 
reduced the cost of the repair that AWP had intended to carry out. So from 3 January, the 
boiler shouldve been more economic for AWP to repair.
Unfortunately, the facilities management companys work hadnt stopped the boiler leaking 
and failing to work. But AWP wasnt responsible for that.
Mr A contacted AWP and said he and Mrs A didnt want to proceed with the repairs. They 
decided to replace the boiler.
I can quite understand that Mr and Mrs A needed a reliable boiler. They particularly didnt 
want a boiler failure or leak while they were going to be away on holiday from 16 January for 
two weeks. 
But they made their decision without giving AWP an opportunity to re-assess the boiler. And 
theres not enough evidence of the costs of (further) repairs or the value of the boiler. 
So I dont find that AWP treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly by declining to make the payment of 
£500.00. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AWP to pay that amount to Mr and Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AWP P&C SA to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman