DRN-4036360
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has caused delays in assessing their 
travel insurance claim.
Any references to AWP include all its representatives and agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out a single trip travel insurance and the policy was underwritten 
by AWP P&C SA. Mr and Mrs Ns son tested positive for Covid-19 when they arrived 
at their destination and had to be quarantined so they submitted a claim with AWP in 
April 2022.
AWP issued a final response in July 2022. It apologised for the delays, upheld the 
complaint and said it would prioritise the claim. I understand the claim has been 
partially settled in November 2022 for the medical costs incurred. 
Mr and Mrs N brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. She looked at the time the claim was 
submitted in April 2022 until July 2022 when the final response was issued. She 
recommended that £75 compensation was paid by AWP for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs N and for AWP to assess the remaining part of 
the claim in line with Mr and Mrs Ns policy terms and conditions. AWP did not 
respond.
The complaint was therefore referred to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 March 2023 and said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS 8.1.1 says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they 
should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I note the claim was first submitted in April 2022. I understand that AWP issued a 
final response in July 2022 and has since partially settled the claim. But I have to 
consider that AWP didnt do what it said it would do in July 2022 and that is to assess 
the full claim as a priority. I can see the complaint was upheld because of the delays 
caused also. So, bearing in mind the initial complaint to AWP was about the claim not 
being assessed within expected timescales, I dont think AWP has dealt with the 
claim in line with whats expected or in line with the industry guidance.
While I agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs N have suffered distress and 
inconvenience, Im minded to think a total compensation award of £200 should be 
paid to them. I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I also note AWP said it would treat the claim as a priority. Im not satisfied this has 
happened. I intend to direct AWP to treat this claim as a priority.
I confirm the full claim itself hasnt been considered here. If Mr and Mrs N dont agree 
with the outcome of their claim once its been assessed, this would need to be raised 
as a separate complaint directly to AWP in the first place.
For these reasons, my intention is to uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs N responded and, again, expressed their concern with regards to the delays 
caused by AWP. 
AWP did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Ive received no further points or arguments from either party, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. 
Overall, I uphold this complaint. AWP hasnt dealt with the claim in line with whats expected 
or in line with the industry guidance. Delays have been caused which could have been 
avoided and the claim also hasnt been assessed fully. Im satisfied therefore that £200 
should be paid to Mr and Mrs N for the distress and inconvenience caused to them by AWP. 
I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Mrs N accept our final decision, I 
direct AWP to put things right as follows:
Assess Mr and Mrs Ns full claim as a priority in line with their policy terms and 
conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs N £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused for 
the delays in its claim handling. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about AWP P&C SA and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Nimisha RadiaOmbudsman