DRN-4316380
The complaint
Ms K complains Triodos Bank UK Ltd (Triodos) caused her extreme distress when it failed to 
credit her bank account in a timely manner.
What happened
Ms K says while working overseas she was expecting a payment into her bank account for 
£1,319 around 27 January 2023, but it didnt arrive. Ms K says when she questioned this via 
a secure message service, Triodos werent able to locate the payment. Ms K says several 
messages were exchanged over the following days and she had provided the full payment 
details to Triodos, but she received no response from them. Eventually the payment was 
located and credited to Ms Ks bank account on 14 February 2023, but Triodos added to the 
confusion by suggesting the following day the payment couldnt be located. 
Ms K says this whole matter caused her severe stress worry and upset and she had to 
borrow funds during this time from friends and family and wasnt able to continue her trip 
overseas as shed hoped. Ms K says her work colleague has had to rebuild relationships 
with the finance team who sent the funds, and this issue has damaged her reputation and 
standing. Ms K sent an invoice to Triodos for £5,000 to cover the stress, upset and worry this 
matter has caused her, but it has only offered her £550. 
Triodos says it accepts a mistake was made by way of an internal processing error and it 
apologised to Ms K for that. Triodos says it has provided feedback to the staff involved for 
future learnings. Triodos felt the £550 it has offered Ms K for the inconvenience this matter 
has caused, is fair in the circumstances.
Ms K wasnt happy with Triodos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. 
The investigator felt although Triodos would on occasions check inward payments from time 
to time, it should have released the funds to Ms Ks bank account sooner than it did. That 
said despite this, the investigator felt its offer of compensation of £550 was fair in the 
circumstances, referring Ms K to this services compensation awards link. 
Ms K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms K while overseas, not to have received 
the monies into her bank account as she was expecting. 
When looking at this complaint given that Triodos have accepted it has made mistakes and 
upheld Ms Ks complaint, I will consider if the level of redress it has offered here is fair and 
reasonable. 
I can see Ms K feels strongly about this matter and without trying to minimise the frustration 
and upset this matter would have undoubtedly caused her, I am satisfied the level of 
compensation Triodos have offered here is reasonable in the circumstances.
I say this because although Ms K has detailed the various issues this matter has caused her 
including stress, worry and embarrassment having to borrow funds from family and friends, 
what I am being asked to do here in essence, is to penalise and punish Triodos for its 
mistake. 
In these circumstances my role is to see businesses like Triodos apologise for its mistake, 
put matters right and pay a proportionate amount of redress. Here Triodos have accepted it 
should have credited Ms Ks bank account sooner than it did, as it took almost two weeks 
from the time it was informed of the problem to correct the issue, but it has apologised for 
that, provided feedback to the staff involved and offered Ms K £550 by way of redress.
With that in mind I am satisfied £550 is a fair level of compensation in the circumstances 
here. 
While Ms K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Triodos, and 
I will leave it with her to contact them if she now wishes to take up its offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman