DRN-3071908
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges on his account when it ought to have realised he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and thought that Santander ought to 
have been aware that Mr H was experiencing difficulty by June 2020 at the latest. So it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Hs account from this point 
onwards. Santander didnt respond. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying charges to an overdraft. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued charging interest, associated fees and charges from June 2020. 
By this point, Santander would have seen that Mr H had been hardcore borrowing for a 
number of months. In other words, Mr Hs account remained persistently overdrawn for 
lengthy periods without returning to credit. And he clearly wasnt using his overdraft for, 
generally accepted purpose, of short-term emergency borrowing.
So I think that by June 2020 Santander should have seen that Mr H was proving himself 
unable to repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. And in these 
circumstances, Santander should have treated Mr H with forbearance and found out more 
about his ability to pay rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges to his 
account.
Mr H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr H lost out because of what Santander did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
 
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs current account balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
added to the account from June 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman