DRN-2919285
The complaint
Mr U complains that Monzo Bank Ltd did not help him recover money hed deposited into an 
online trading account which he says turned out to be a scam.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr U saw an online advertisement for a firm, which said it provided a trading 
platform through which investors could trade on forex, commodities, stocks, cryptocurrency, 
and indices. Ill refer to the firm as B throughout. After Mr U had completed and submitted 
an application online, he received a call from a person, who introduced themselves as a 
representative of B. He was told to begin trading, he would need to complete his registration. 
To do so, he needed to make a minimum deposit of $250 and provide a number of 
documents (for proof of identity). Mr U says to convince and reassure him that B was a 
genuine investment firm, the representative shared several investor testimonies. Persuaded 
by what hed been told Mr U made a payment of $250 using his Monzo Bank debit card and 
shared with B the documentation that hed been asked for. 
Following this, an online trading account was opened for Mr U and he was assigned an 
account manager to help guide him. The account manager told Mr U that by allowing them to 
manage his trading account he could maximise his profits. Mr U was uncomfortable with the 
idea of giving the account manager exclusive rights to trade with his account funds without 
his knowledge, consent or approval. Ultimately, it was his hard-earned money, so an 
agreement was reached that before any trades were executed on Mr Us account the 
account manager would seek his approval. 
The account manager began trading with Mr Us consent. His investments were making 
profits. Having gained his confidence, the account manager, persuaded him to invest further 
sums  enticing him with bonus offers. And between July 2019 and December 2019 Mr U 
had made seven payments totalling over £5,500. 
Mr U says he checked his trading account daily. He could see his account value growing and 
by February 2020 his account value had increased to over $52,000. He was happy with how 
things were going until he received a call from his account manager informing him that theyd 
opened new trades for him. Mr U was unhappy that the account manager had not adhered to 
their agreement and had placed an order without his approval. Mr U asked for the trades to 
be closed. The account manager refused and tried to assure him that he wont lose his 
money and that he should make another deposit to secure his account. Mr U was not 
convinced.  
The following day, as usual Mr U logged into his trading account. He was shocked to 
discover that the account manager had closed the trades and all his funds had been wiped 
out. The account value was negative. Concerned, he emailed and sent messages to the 
account manager. He says they were read but no response was received. He also emailed 
Rs compliance department. It also didnt respond. It was at this point Mr U realised that hed 
likely fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr U contacted Monzo Bank for assistance with a chargeback claim. Monzo Bank didnt 
agree to raising a claim as it believed it would not succeed under Mastercards scheme 
rules.
Unhappy with Monzo Banks response Mr U brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt recommend that it should be upheld. As he disagrees, Mr U has asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
I can see that Mr U has found it hard to accept how quickly Monzo Bank reached its decision 
to not pursue a chargeback claim, stating: "Mastercard chargeback did not apply to the 
transactions because once the money had reached the merchant, Mastercard considered 
that the service had been provided.". I also note that Mr U is grieved that an investigation 
hasnt been launched into the unscrupulous actions of B. I understand that morally speaking 
he feels Monzo Bank ought to have raised his chargeback claim as the benefits of doing so 
outweigh its decision to not do anything. He believes Monzo Bank taking action would have 
put B on notice that their illegal activities are being recorded by the authorities and that in 
turn couldve protected and safeguarded many innocent victims from falling victim to the 
scam.  
Im sympathetic to Mr Us situation and recognise how strongly he feels, but I think its 
important for me to explain that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to settle 
individual complaints (within the context of our jurisdiction) between consumers and 
businesses that provide financial services. Unfortunately, we cant consider complaints 
which are about the actions of other third parties, such as B; or which concern the wider 
implications and impact on others, of a financial business processes or actions. 
Ultimately my role here is limited to deciding whether I think Monzo Bank acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining to raise the chargeback claim. I think they did, and Ill explain 
why.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme provider which in this case is 
Mastercard. Monzo Bank are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules. Whilst 
there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice that a 
chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a chargeback can 
only be made within the scheme rules.
I can absolutely see how the speed in which a claim is responded to, can leave the claimant 
feeling like a thorough investigation has not been completed, or the full facts cant possibly 
have fairly been considered before reaching a decision. However, there is limited protection 
under the Mastercard scheme rules if a cardholder authorised and engaged in a transaction 
with the intent to participate in gambling, investment or similar services. Something which I 
would expect Monzo Bank to be aware of, so I would expect it to review similar matters 
quickly as to avoid delay to its customers. Having considered everything Im satisfied that the 
time Monzo Bank took to assess the claim didnt have an impact on the outcome reached. I say this because our service has clarified with Mastercard directly, the scheme rules 
relating to claims about gambling, investment or similar services. It explained that, issuers 
have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or 
withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such 
chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction to 
load funds into the gambling or investment account and not what activities are subsequently 
done with the funds. So, the only chargeback route available in such circumstances is limited 
to if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But that is 
not the nature of Mr Us claim. His claim is that B is operating fraudulently and have 
executed trades without his consent. 
So, taking all the above into consideration I dont think Monzo Bank acted unreasonably in 
reaching the conclusion that it didnt think there was an avenue for it to pursue a claim under 
Mastercards scheme rules that had any prospect of success. So it follows that I dont think 
its decision to not raise a chargeback claim was unfair. 
Nevertheless, Monzo Bank does have a duty to protect customers against the risk of 
financial loss due to fraud. So for completeness Ive also thought about whether I think 
Monzo Bank couldve reasonably done anything more to prevent Mr Us loss at the time the 
payments were processed. Having looked at the general operation of Mr Us account I cant 
say that there was anything so unusual or suspicious about the disputed payments which 
makes me think Monzo Bank reasonably ought to have had concerns to the point where it 
intervening would be an appropriate response.
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr U, but I cant fairly ask 
Monzo Bank to refund him as I dont think it is responsible for the loss Mr U has suffered. I 
think its decision to not raise a chargeback claim was reasonable. And I dont think it 
reasonably couldve done more at the time the payments were processed.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award 
against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman