DRN-2976926
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was unable to access her account with Metro Bank PLC 
containing the funds transferred from her fixed term deposit account when it matured. This 
was because the telephone number on the account was incorrect which meant she was 
unable to register for online banking. 
Shes also expressed dissatisfaction that the security questions asked were unreasonable, 
resulting in her not being able to pass the security which would have allowed Metro to 
change the phone number on the account.
Mrs H is being assisted by her husband, Mr H.  
What happened
On 27 June 2019, Mrs H opened a Metro fixed term deposit account online for a term of 18 
months. An instant savings account was also (automatically) opened, in line with the 
business terms and conditions. Metro sent Mrs H an acknowledgement email to say that it 
would send her the terms and conditions, important information summary and her internet 
banking customer number to her registered email address separately. A few days later, on 
29 June 2019, Mrs H went to her local Metro store to provide identification and pay in the 
deposit. 
On 14 December 2020, Mrs H was notified that her investment was due to mature on 28 
December 2020. Two days later, on 16 December 2020, Mrs H contacted Metro to discuss 
the maturity of her investment and to register for online banking. She was unable to 
complete all the security questions  involving her phone number  so was unable to register 
for online banking. However, because she was able to answer some of the security 
questions, she received limited assistance as she was unable to visit the store.  
On 22 December 2020, Mrs H completed a change of details form and provided a new 
landline, mobile number and email address. On 27 December 2020, a different Metro store 
received the form and tried to contact her but was unsuccessful. So, on 28 December 2020, 
the matured funds were deposited into Mrs Hs instant savings account. 
On 5 January 2021, Mrs H contacted her local store to explain that she was unable to visit 
due to her disability and circumstances. Nevertheless, she was still able to pass security and 
update her mobile phone number. The same day, she also logged into her online account 
and transferred £5,000 out of the instant savings account and into her bank account. 
In due course, Mrs H complained to Metro about her experience. In a final response letter 
dated 11 February 2021, it didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said that the initial 
telephone number on her account (supplied by her) was incorrect, and thats why she was 
initially unable to register for online banking. It also said that it had followed its security 
process when accessing the account. 
On 22 March 2021, it sent another final response (in response to additional comments) in 
which it confirmed that if Mrs H wanted Mr H to act on her behalf, shed need to complete a 
third-party mandate or register for power of attorney. 
On 25 March 2021, Mr H visited the local Metro store to be added as an authorised third-
party on the account. In due course, given Mrs Hs circumstances Metro carried out a home 
visit to verify her identification and change of signature. Thereafter, on 1, 15 and 27 April 
2021, Mrs H transferred a total of £40,000 from her instant savings account to her bank 
account.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Its part of our role to consider whether a business behaved reasonably. Its not for us 
to determine whether its behavior was specifically lawful and in-line with specific 
legislation. Therefore, it would be for the court to determine whether a business has 
breached the Equality Act 2010. 
Metro is obliged to carry out security checks in order to establish a customers 
identity, and to prevent identity theft, fraud and unauthorised third-party access. 
Were not the industry regulator therefore it wouldnt be for us tell a financial 
institution how to run its business. 
During the account opening process, Mrs H wouldve had to agree to the terms and 
conditions which forms the basis of the agreement between her and Metro. 
Despite Mrs H saying that she didnt open the account online, she (the investigator) 
hasnt seen any evidence that it was done instore. The evidence suggests that Mrs H 
went into the store to complete the identification process on 29 June 2019 and that 
on the same day she transferred the funds. 
The Important Information Summary document made clear that if a customer was to 
open an account in store, they will need to open another account (savings or current) 
to pay in the interest. But, if they do so online, the account will be opened 
automatically. It also said that it would contact the customer 30 days before maturity 
and if it didnt hear back, the proceeds would be paid into the feeder account - which 
is what happened.  
Mrs H confirmed that she didnt open an instant savings account, which would 
suggest that this was done automatically when she opened her fixed term deposit 
account online. 
Although Mrs H was frustrated at not knowing answers to the security questions 
asked, she will have been provided with the relevant information online. 
Whilst she understands that Mr H was trying to help Mrs H answer security 
questions, Mr H didnt have power of attorney over Mrs Hs accounts. Therefore, the 
phone agent wasnt wrong to ask to liaise with Mrs H only. Overall, the questions 
asked by Metro werent unreasonable, and it was entitled not to proceed with the call. 
As a representative of Mrs H, Mr H doesnt have the right to compensation, therefore 
she cant consider any impact this case may have had on him.
The terms and conditions under, section 7.2 Authorising others to operate your 
accounts, make clear that Mrs H could authorise someone to operate her account by 
signing a third-party mandate or power of attorney  she ought to get legal advice if 
she wanted to pursue the latter. And if she did authorise Mr H, shed be responsible 
for his actions.  
The terms and conditions, under section 11.2 also made clear what would happen if 
it decided to suspend the account, which it would only do for security reasons where 
it was uncertain if the instructions were from Mrs H. Mrs H submitted the change of details form to change her mobile number, but Metro 
didnt change it straightaway. It said it was normal process to call the customer on 
the number to confirm the details.   
Notwithstanding what Mrs H says about her disability and not being able to visit the 
store, Metro provided alternative methods of changing her mobile number and 
offered alternative security questions, so it hasnt acted unreasonably. 
Metro confirmed that Mrs H was able to register for online banking on 5 January 
2021 and transfer £5,000 to her bank account. So, in the circumstances, she cant 
say that Metro hasnt followed its security process in line with its terms and conditions 
and privacy notice. 
Mrs H had spent time on the phone with the business trying to resolve what she 
thought was a security breach due to the instant access account number on the 
maturity form of her fixed term account. Shes unable to say that it was as a result of 
Metros error, or its verification system, that Mrs H didnt know the answer to security 
questions.  
As an exception, Metro confirmed that it has updated Mrs Hs mobile number at her 
local store, and a home visit was made to complete identification using her passport 
to add Mr H as an authorised third-party on her account. 
Whilst Mrs H may have found her experience with Metro frustrating, shes unable to 
say that the business did anything wrong.
In the circumstances, she cant blame Metro for Mrs H not being able to answer 
questions correctly. Overall, shes satisfied Metro treated Mrs H fairly.  
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and in short made the following observations:
It could be argued that the account wasnt opened before going into the Metro store, 
if the identification wasnt provided. 
Hes not sure when Mrs H wouldve received the terms and conditions. 
He doesnt agree that Metro made adequate provisions to cater for Mrs Hs disability. 
The investigator said she couldnt consider the actions of another business, but in her 
view mentioned considering good industry practice. 
If the telephone number issue isnt Metros fault, its not a number they recognised, so 
the issue remains unresolved.
They cant see where the process of paying interest into the account is identified  
this caused Mrs H to answer the second security question incorrectly.  
The investigator having considered the response to her view wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. 
Mrs H, considering her husbands questions, feels like the issue hasnt been resolved, 
therefore has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the business 
behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. 
Mr H has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs H wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr H, and Metro, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. This doesnt mean that we look at the actions of specific individual 
businesses, so I dont think the investigator was wrong to say what she did on this point.
Ultimately, its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats 
more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate Mrs H feels that the business didnt do as much as it couldve done to 
accommodate her disability. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to 
safely say that Metro behaved unreasonably whilst acting within the limitations of its 
obligations towards the security of its business and its customers. In other words, just 
because Metro didnt behave according to Mrs Hs expectations, doesnt mean that it 
behaved unreasonably. 
Security measures are in place to safeguard a business and its customers against fraud and 
unauthorised access to its customers money. In this instance I think Mrs H will appreciate 
that the measures practiced by Metro were ultimately for her safety and security. Im mindful 
the business says, security is paramount to Metro Bank. 
This is why Metro was initially unable to proceed, when Mrs H didnt answer the security 
questions correctly. Ive no doubt that if there had been a fraudulent attempt on her account 
and Metro had denied the fraudster access to Mrs Hs money as a result of following its 
process, shed be most delighted and relieved.  
I appreciate that Mr H was only trying to assist Mrs H to recall her security information, but 
he wasnt authorised to act on her behalf at the time. I also note that Mrs H hadnt passed 
her security questions and therefore couldnt legitimately ask Mr H to speak on her behalf. 
Therefore, the business wasnt being unreasonable in insisting on speaking to Mrs H only, to 
try and sort things out. Nevertheless, in due course, Metro carried out a home visit to verify 
Mrs Hs identification and change of signature.
  
I appreciate Mrs H doesnt recognise the mobile number in question, and theres a 
suggestion that she supplied the wrong number (which she denies) and doesnt understand 
why additional questions werent asked. 
Its possible that Mrs H and/or Mr H (unintentionally) supplied the wrong phone number to 
Metro. On a balance of probabilities, I think its more likely (than not) this is what happened 
when they made the application online. Im mindful Mr H thought that the number may have 
belonged to one of their children.  So, if that was the case  as I think it probably was  it wasnt of Metros doing, therefore I 
cant hold it responsible for Mrs H and/or Mr Hs actions. In other words, in this instance and 
on balance, I cant safely say that Metro was at fault or that it had incorrectly recorded the 
phone number.
In the circumstances, I cant blame Metro for not immediately asking additional/different 
security questions to give her another chance to pass security. That said, Im aware that in 
due course and after a better understanding of her circumstances, Metro allowed Mrs H to 
answer additional/different security questions. 
A financial business is, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, 
entitled to set its own security procedures  which also includes not proceeding if some initial 
security questions arent answered correctly. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its 
affairs. 
Im mindful that despite the initial suggestion  for Mrs H to get her ID document verified by a 
solicitor  Metro was able to assist her through other means, once it has been given a better 
understanding of her circumstances and difficulties.  
Im mindful that Mrs H in due course submitted a change of details form to change her 
mobile number, but Metro didnt change it straightaway. I note it said that it was normal to 
call the customer on the number to confirm the details which I dont think was unreasonable. 
In other words, in my opinion it was a reasonable way of authenticating the change-request 
was from Mrs H and not someone pretending to be her. Im aware that it has now updated 
Mrs Hs details. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mrs H says about the delays and potential impact if shed needed 
money for a large purchase for a house, I also note that this wasnt the case. Despite what 
she says, I cant decide this case on what might have happened. 
Despite some initial challenges, Im satisfied that they were addressed within a reasonable 
amount of time, and that in due course Mrs H had access to her account between January 
and April 2021 when she conducted several transfers.   
Im mindful of what Mrs H says about Metros refusal to speak to her, but I dont think this 
was because she complained about its service. In the spirit of fairness, businesses generally 
tend to liaise with our service once a complaint has been referred to us, so theres no 
suggestion of undue bias or influence on the customer. In other words, the customer is left 
free to pursue their complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr H may have suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with this 
complaint (on behalf of Mrs H), as a representative hes not entitled to any compensation, 
therefore I cant ask Metro to pay him compensation for any trouble and upset he may have 
suffered, even if I thought it had done something wrong, which I dont. 
I appreciate what Mr H says about the account opening, but on the face of the evidence and 
on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs H opened a Metro fixed term deposit 
account online, and an instant savings account was also (automatically) opened  in line 
with the business terms and conditions  and thats why she didnt need to open a separate 
account. And all she had to subsequently do was to provide her identification documentation 
and make the deposit to start the investment, which I understand she did at the store.  
I appreciate Mrs H has indicated that she may report the matter to the Equality and Human 
Rights Commission, whilst shes free to do so, thats not a reason for me to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that Metro 
treated Mrs H unfairly because of her disability. 
I appreciate Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman