DRN-2697078
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did following claims she made on her 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H has private medical insurance with Aviva. Her policy has a limit of £500 for out 
patient treatment. In May 2019 Miss H contacted Aviva as shed found a lump in her breast 
which she was concerned might be cancerous. Aviva advised the policy could cover a 
referral to a consultant (if recommended by her GP) up to the £500 limit. 
After obtaining the referral Miss H called back and there was further discussion of the limit. 
The adviser said the cost of the consultations were likely to exceed this and gave an idea of 
the likely amount. As a result Miss H didnt progress the claim and had the lump investigated 
on the NHS (where it wasnt found to be cancerous). 
Miss H contacted Aviva again in January 2020 as she wanted to make a claim for therapy. 
Aviva accepted the claim and asked a provider to arrange the counselling. Miss H contacted 
Aviva a month later to say a suitable therapist hadnt been found. Aviva provided her with a 
list of therapists she could use and Miss H was able to arrange an appointment.  
Our investigator acknowledged how distressed Miss H had been at finding a lump. But as 
her policy did have a £500 limit for out patient treatment he didnt think Aviva had done 
anything wrong in drawing this to her attention when she contacted it. For her second claim, 
while there were issues with the provider finding her a suitable therapist, he thought Aviva 
had taken reasonable steps to deal with this once it knew there was a problem. 
Miss H didnt agree. She said she had to wait three weeks for an NHS appointment to have 
the lump investigated and thought the point of having private medical insurance was that she 
would get seen more quickly. And the therapy took six weeks to organise which is the same 
time it would have taken if shed gone through the NHS. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive listened to the calls Miss H had with Aviva and its clear she was very concerned about 
finding a lump in her breast. I can understand why she wanted this investigated quickly. But 
the terms of her policy say the following out-patient benefits are subject to a combined limit 
of £500 for each member every policy year. Those benefits include consultations with a fee 
approved specialist and diagnostic tests. 
I think the specialist referral which Miss H contacted Aviva about would be caught by that 
limit. And I think Aviva acted reasonably in letting Miss H know any costs in addition to that 
would be for her to pay. Doing so meant she had the information she needed to decide 
whether to go ahead with a claim under her policy or wait for an appointment on the NHS. 
I appreciate she found it very upsetting to wait for an NHS appointment and I dont doubt this 
was an extremely difficult time for Miss H. But I think Aviva correctly explained the terms of 
her policy to her and dont think its done anything wrong here. 
Miss H made a subsequent claim for therapy which Aviva accepted and referred to one of its 
providers. Its really unfortunate there were then problems with that provider arranging a 
suitable therapist for Miss H to see in her area. But Aviva isnt responsible for the actions of 
the provider. And it only became aware there was a problem when Miss H got back in touch 
with it at the start of February. At that point I think Aviva took reasonable steps to resolve the 
matter which did enable Miss H to begin her therapy. I appreciate there was a delay in this 
therapy taking place but I dont think thats something Aviva was responsible for. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman