DRN-2731330
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
In April 2017, Miss B took out an Aqua credit card with NewDay. At this time she set out 
she was employed, declared her income and NewDay was able to see her other 
outstanding debt from a credit search. It granted her a limit of £600.
In August 2017, Miss B was offered to increase her limit to £1,500, which she accepted. 
In December 2017, she was offered a limit increase to £2,250, which she also accepted. 
In May 2018, she was offered a further increase to £3,500, which was again accepted. 
This was her last credit increase for this card.
In February 2019, Miss B applied and was accepted for a Debenhams card with 
NewDay. She was approved for a £500 limit. A few months after this Miss B applied to 
increase her limit to £750 but NewDay declined this. 
In November 2019, Miss B complained to NewDay that it had irresponsibly lent to her. 
She said the credit limit increases of her Aqua card shouldnt have been offered to her. 
And that the Debenhams card was unaffordable and she shouldnt have been approved 
for it. She explained her financial situation meant that she couldnt afford these debts and 
she was having to borrow money to make her repayments.
NewDay didnt uphold her complaint. It said Miss B had met its lending criteria for all the 
Aqua credit increases as well as the Debenhams card. It said it had carried out 
proportionate checks and, in relation to the Debenhams card, as Miss B was managing 
her Aqua account well and making more than the minimum payment this also factored 
into its decision to lend.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service. She also complained that, since making her 
irresponsible lending complaint, NewDay had closed her accounts so she could no 
longer spend on either of her credit cards. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
She didnt think NewDay had lent irresponsibly and said that it had done proportionate 
checks for the increases/new card. And she said it was able to stop Miss Bs cards under 
the terms of the accounts, as part of responsible lending. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the case. She said the limit increases and the Debenhams card put her further into debt 
 and that these wouldnt have been offered to her if the correct checks had been 
completed. And she reiterated the financial difficulties the closure of the accounts had 
caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
NewDay has shown us the checks it carried out for the Aqua card limit increases and 
these are proportionate to the lending increases. At the times of the increases Miss B 
had kept up to date with her payments and had often paid more than the minimum 
payment towards the card  so this didnt suggest she was struggling finically. Her credit 
file also didnt show any new adverse entries, so suggested that she was managing her 
other debts and financial commitments well too. I understand from Miss B that this was 
because she was borrowing from other places to ensure she kept up to date with 
payments, but NewDay didnt know this. And I cant say this was something it needed to 
enquire about, as the data it did hold didnt suggest any issues or reason to carry out 
additional checks.
I have looked at Miss Bs bank statements for the time she applied for the Debenhams 
card and I do accept they show she isnt able to manage all her outgoings within her own 
salary. However, NewDay wasnt aware of this. On application Miss B declared her 
salary and essential monthly outgoings  and this left around 50% of her salary 
available. 
Before approving her for the Debenhams card, I can see NewDay checked Miss Bs 
credit file and look at how she was managing her other debts. And it was able to look into 
her Aqua credit card in greater detail as it also owned this account. And while Miss B had 
increased her unsecured debt a lot in the time between taking out these two cards, she 
was still managing all this debt well  according to her credit file. There were no new 
adverse entries and she passed its internal criteria in relation to the proportion of her 
outstanding debt to income.
NewDay granted Miss B a £500 limit and didnt allow her to increase this, so this meant 
minimum repayments of under £30 a month for this card. I think the checks NewDay 
carried out were proportionate to this limit and that the information these showed didnt 
suggest this was irresponsible. While I accept that Miss B may have been in the early 
stages of financial difficulty at this time, this wasnt reflected in her credit file or the 
management of her Aqua card. And considering the limit on the Debenhams card, I cant 
say NewDay needed to do additional checks, such as ask Miss B for her bank 
statements before approving her for it.
I understand that Miss B is also unhappy NewDay has since closed both her accounts. 
While I appreciate why this has caused her difficulty  as shes said she relies on these 
cards  at the same time shes complained that shes in financial difficulty. And that she 
cant afford to repay this borrowing  so NewDay has closed the accounts to prevent her 
spending further. I cant say this is unfair of NewDay considering Miss Bs complaint. And 
the terms and conditions Miss B agreed to for both cards set out that NewDay may stop 
the use of the cards as part of responsible lending, so it has acted in line with these.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 Amy Osborne
Ombudsman