DRN-3678537
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society 
(and referred to here as YBS) unfairly declined his request to port his mortgage interest rate 
product onto another mortgage on a new property. As a result, Mr M took out bridging 
finance for his purchase and repaid his mortgage to YBS, incurring an early repayment 
charge (ERC). To settle the complaint Mr M wants YBS to reimburse the ERC.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr M had a mortgage with YBS that was on an interest rate product that was due to 
expire on 31 October 2025. If Mr M repaid the mortgage before that date, he would incur an 
ERC. The mortgage offer allowed the interest rate product to be transferred onto a new 
mortgage, subject to meeting YBSs criteria, and the new mortgage completing within six 
months.
Mr M repaid the mortgage in March 2021 and later submitted two separate porting 
applications for a new mortgage on two properties in the same street. YBS declined the 
applications as it said they didnt meet its lending criteria. In broad terms, YBS thought that 
Mr M was acting as a property developer, which was outside its lending criteria for a 
residential mortgage.
Mr M challenged this decision but YBS still wasnt able to offer Mr M a new mortgage. YBS 
acknowledged thered been some minor administrative issues and offered compensation of 
£65. However, Mr M wanted a refund of the ERC, which was around £20,000.
Mr M brought the complaint to our service, where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. However, she wasnt persuaded that YBS had done anything wrong.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes provided further evidence 
which he says proves he was living in his previous property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
In order to preserve Mr Ms privacy, I have not set out the specific details of his dealings with 
YBS, but I confirm Ive taken everything he and YBS have said into consideration.
First of all, there is no entitlement to a mortgage and YBS isnt under any obligation to lend, 
even if it has done so before. YBS is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that 
YBS makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular 
lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for YBSs own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
YBS has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
YBS reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including its risk 
appetite, and Mr Ms specific circumstances. 
This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that YBS has treated Mr M unfairly 
or unreasonably. Im satisfied YBS had legitimate concerns that allowed it to decline the 
application. In the circumstances, although I appreciate the ERC was a substantial sum of 
money, I can find no  basis on which I could reasonably order YBS to reimburse Mr M for 
this amount.
YBS offered Mr M compensation of £65 for administrative errors, which I find is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. I am therefore not ordering YBS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman