DRN -3517026  
 
 
 
 
 
The complaint  
 
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Lendable Ltd lent to him without doing the 
proper checks and so he could not afford the loans.  
 
What happened  
 
Using information from Lendable, here is a brief table of the approved loans.  
 
Loans Date taken  Term Monthly 
repayment  Total amount 
repayable  Date repaid  
1 13/04/2018  24 months  £240.64  £4,570  unknown  
2 23/10/2018  18 months  £381.96  £6,330  unknown  
 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that Lendable should put 
things right for Mr B for loan 2.  
 
Mr B accepted this outcome. Lendable has not responded. From this it seems that loan 1 is 
no longer disputed and I have not reviewed it  in detail although its relevant as part of the 
lending relationship between the parties.  
 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. I think 
the overarchin g questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:  
 
 did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable  way?  
 
 if not, would those checks have shown that Mr B would have been able to do  so? 
 
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.  
 
The checks had to be borrower -focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that  
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue  difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obliga tion to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.  
 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B . Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.  
 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited t o  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.  
 
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:  
 
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of  income);  
 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of  income);  
 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, o r was becoming,  unsustainable).  
 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr B complaint.  
 
Mr B took two loans which were significant in commitment, and so I do consider that a 
comprehensive assessment was warranted. As I have outlined earlier, as Loan 1 appears 
not to be in dispute then I have focused on loan 2 and within the context of it being a second 
loan.  
 
From Lendables figures and explanations in its final response letter (FRL) to Mr B then  
I think I can assess that loan 1 was scheduled to be paid off April 2020 and it said that Mr B 
repaid it early and saved himself over £910 in interest.  
 
So, I think its more likely than not Mr B refinanced that loan 1 into loan 2. I may be incorrect 
on this but a s loan 2 was approved for him just 6 months into the 24 month loan 1 term, and 
the interest saving was about £910, then I doubt Mr B had repaid all of loan 1 by 23 October 
2018 from independent means. And even if he did do that  he appears to have come ba ck 
for a second loan and in that scenario very quickly after repaying loan 1 if he did repay loan 
1 from other means. And I am making these calculated assumptions on the information  
I have available to me.  So, whether Mr B repaid all of loan 1 from independent means and then came back for 
loan 2 quickly, or whether Mr B refinanced loan 1 into loan 2, I think this would have raised 
questions as to why Mr B needed additional credit and for a higher amount in such a short  
period. And so, I think Lendable was on notice to carry out additional checks over and above 
what it has told us it did.  
 
Lendable has said that Mr Bs income at loan 2 was £2,026 a month and it knew that from a 
payslip obtained from Mr B. Juxtaposed with the information Lendable  says was Mr Bs 
income six months earlier when he had applied for loan 1 then it looks like Mr Bs income 
had dropped by almost a third from £2,947 to £2,026. I think that ought to have acted as an 
alert to make additional checks about Mr Bs financial si tuation.  
 
Added to which, the little information we have from Lendable is that it knew Mr B had a total 
indebtedness with other creditors of over £20,000.  
 
Based on the term and the cost of this loan, I dont think these checks Lendable says it 
carried out for loan 2 were proportionate.  ........................................................................ 
........................................................................ ..........................................................................
......................................................  
 
And in view of what I have said earlier about Mr Bs drop in income and the larger loan with 
higher repayments each month, then I think proportionate checks shouldve included 
obtaining a thorough knowledge of Mr Bs financial circumstances including verification of 
the information it had. I cannot see that Lendable did that.  
 
............................................................................................................................. ................
............................................................................................................................. ............... . 
 
Usually Id expect Mr B to have provided additional evidence about his own circumstances. 
Mr B has been able to send to us a copy of his credit report dated May 2018 which was a 
report generated just after loan 1 was approved . And so, I have relied on this in the absence 
of anything from Lendable. That credit search reveals some of the following details:  
 
o Mr B was close to the limit on two credit cards with £2,500 and £300  limits  
o the main part of his debt was a hire purchase a ccount opened May 2017 for  over 
£20,000  
 
o another hire purchase agreement had closed May 2017. This had been for  over 
£12,000 which shows back -to-back HP agreements  
 
o unsecured loan with another high cost lender started December 2016 and closed 
December 20 17 - £1,500  loan 
 
o a bank account had closed having been in arrears in  2015  
o evidence of many short term lending loans in earlier  years  
So although the evidence about Mr Bs financial situation is thin, its is more than Lendable 
has sent to me and so I am more persuaded by Mr Bs argument that he could not afford this 
loan than Lendables case that it did all the right checks. Especially w hen it was a second, 
larger loan, within 6 months of loan 1 being approved. The repayments for loan 2 were a 
great deal higher than for loan 1.  So, in these circumstances and on relatively limited evidence, I have decided it is fair and 
reaso nable to uphold loan 2 of Mr Bs complaint.  
 
Putting things right  
 
Lendable shouldnt have given Mr B loan 2. I understand from Lendables FRL that Mr B has 
paid off both loans. To settle Mr Bs complaint, I direct that Lendable does the following:  
 
A) Add to gether the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and charges 
on loan 2, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not including 
anything already  refunded.  
 
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is  settled.  
 
C) Pay any remaining refund to Mr  B. 
 
D) Remove any adverse credit information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to loan  2. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lendable should give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.  
 
My final decision  
 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and I direct that Lendable Ltd does 
as I have outlined in the putting things right section of the decision.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.  
 
 
Rachael Williams  
Ombudsman  