DRN-2826505
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with TSB Bank Plcs handling of her report of a disputed transaction on 
her debit card. 
Mrs R has been helped with her complaint by a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill 
just refer to Mrs R herself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events. In January 2021 Mrs R noticed a pending transaction on 
her account that she didnt recognise. 
She contacted TSB and reported this. Mrs R confirmed she still had her card and hadnt 
given it to anyone else. TSB said that as the transaction was made using the contactless 
function of the card and because Mrs R still had her card, they couldnt explain how it could 
have been made by someone without Mrs Rs authority and that they wouldnt be treating it 
as an instance of fraud. But TSB did cancel Mrs Rs card and ordered a replacement to 
reassure her. 
Mrs R complained, she insists she didnt make the transaction in question. She was also 
unhappy with the conduct of the agent from TSB that she spoke to when reporting the 
matter. She thinks he was reluctant to order a replacement card. She says she didnt leave 
the house to make the payment as she is unwell and was shielding at home due to the 
coronavirus guidance. 
TSB investigated the complaint and didnt think theyd done anything wrong. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, they refunded the disputed transaction (which was for around £25). As 
she remained unhappy, Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. She holds TSB liable for 
her health worsening due to the stress of dealing with this matter. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
thought TSB had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mrs R remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Rs ill health and the impact this situation has had on her. But my 
role here is to decide if TSB acted fairly when declining to investigate Mrs Rs report of an 
unauthorised transaction as fraud and if they provided poor service such that compensation 
ought to be paid. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs R, but I dont agree TSB have treated her unfairly 
and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Im satisfied by the evidence that TSB have provided that the payment in question was 
authenticated by the contactless payment method. Mrs R said she always had the card in 
her possession and that neither her nor any of her family made the transaction. Given Im 
satisfied that the physical card was presented to make the payment, I dont think TSB were 
being unfair when questioning how this could have happened if the card had stayed at home 
with Mrs R. 
Ive taken Mrs Rs testimony into consideration, but I dont think the decision TSB reached 
was unfair or unreasonable. And in any case, in the circumstances of this complaint, TSB 
have reimbursed the payment as a gesture of goodwill. So, I dont think Mrs R has lost out 
financially as a result of TSBs decision. I think this is fair. 
Mrs R believes she should be compensated for TSBs handling of the matter, she says it has 
had a significant impact on her health. Ive listened to the call where Mrs R reports the 
matter to TSB. I dont agree that TSBs agent acted unprofessionally or that he was reluctant 
to arrange a replacement card for Mrs R. I appreciate he was delivering a message that 
Mrs R was unhappy about and I can understand why this was upsetting. But as I dont think 
TSB did anything wrong or handled this matter poorly, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman