DRN-3209965
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his motor insurer One Insurance Limited in respect of how it 
handled a claim he made when his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen and recovered in March 2020, and One Insurance took it in for repair. 
In June 2020 One Insurance wrote to Mr B and, amongst other things, offered its assurance 
that the repair would be expedited. However, it was August 2020 before the car was 
returned to Mr B, at which point he found various issues with it. It seemingly hadnt been 
thoroughly checked following the theft, its tracking was off and paint repairs had been 
completed without proper blending. And there was an unsafe tyre. One Insurance did 
resolve all the repair issues for Mr B, but it was 18 October 2020 before Mr B got the car 
back in a satisfactory state. Mr B remained unhappy so he complained to us.
Our investigator noted everything Mr B had been through and the delays she felt One 
Insurance had caused. She felt it should reimburse him any financial loss hed suffered. And 
upon review she told both parties that fair and reasonable compensation, in the 
circumstances, would be £500.
Mr B said he was satisfied with the suggested outcome. One Insurance didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance should have taken care to complete a full and proper repair of Mr Bs car in 
the first instance, and in a timely manner too. Ive seen no good reason for the delay which 
occurred between June and August 2020  as far as I can tell the repair simply shouldnt 
have taken that long. And Mr B shouldnt then have been put in the position in August of his 
car being returned to him in an unsatisfactory state  which it clearly was. I dont doubt this 
was frustrating and worrying for Mr B.
Because the car was returned to Mr B with poor paintwork and other unresolved repairs, he 
had to make a trip to the garage as well as sorting out a repair himself for one urgent issue. 
His car also had to go back to One Insurances garage for further work. His car wasnt 
returned to him until October 2020. By that time this claim should have been long resolved 
and the incident fading into the past for Mr B. One Insurances delays meant that wasnt the 
case. Im satisfied that £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due in this instance. 
Im not sure if Mr B incurred any financial loss because of One Insurances delays. But, if he 
did, he shouldnt be left out of pocket because of its failures. If he had a financial loss he 
should send proof of it to One Insurance and it will have to reimburse anything reasonably 
incurred. 
Putting things right
I require One Insurance to: 
Pay Mr B £500 compensation.
Reimburse to Mr B, upon sight of proof, any cost he reasonably incurred due to its delay.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman