DRN-4236229
The complaint
Mr B complains about NewDay Ltds handling of a claim he had made under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a mobile phone.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr B used the credit card he held with NewDay to purchase a new mobile 
phone that included a camera from an online retailer. Mr B said the camera was an 
important feature for him and he needed it to be able to take clear pictures, particularly of 
documents, labels and receipts.
Mr B said he found the photos taken were disappointing because although clear in the 
centre the images would be blurry and rounded at the edges. He said the camera was faulty 
and the mobile phone wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr B decided to make a claim to NewDay under section 75 as he said the mobile phone 
wasnt fit for purpose. NewDay requested that Mr B provide an independent report as to the 
fault and its cause. It said it wasnt an expert and it would need advice as to the nature of 
any fault. NewDay said it was for Mr B to source and fund this report but if his claim was 
upheld this cost would be reimbursed.
Mr B said that he had supplied sufficient evidence of the fault by providing copies of the 
images taken by the camera. He said he didnt need to provide further evidence of the fault 
and that the onus lay with NewDay to show no fault existed.
NewDay said it was unable to proceed with Mr B section 75 claim without the independent 
evidence. Mr B complained to NewDay and later, having received no response, he 
complained to this service.
NewDay said that it should have responded sooner that it had to Mr Bs complaint and 
offered him £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its lack of 
response. It also said the section 75 claim hadnt been declined but it couldnt be progressed 
until the evidence as to the fault had been provided by an independent report. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
NewDays request for an independent report setting out the nature and cause of the report 
was reasonable as there could a number of reasons as to why the camera produced the 
photos as it had. 
Our investigator said that although under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, when a fault was 
raised in the first six months from the point of supply the onus would be on the retailer to 
show the goods werent faulty there was a caveat to that being that there was already 
sufficient evidence to show that a fault existed. She said she didnt think this was the case 
here as the quality of the photos could be due to the way the camera had been designed by 
the manufacturer which wouldnt be a manufacturing fault. She said there wasnt enough 
evidence to say there had been a breach of contract by the retailer.
However, our investigator said she thought compensation for the delay in responding to Mr 
Bs complaint was fair and recommended the amount offered by NewDay should be paid to 
him.
Mr B disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the photos he had supplied clearly 
showed there was a fault with either the hardware or the software of the mobile phones 
camera. He said that he had a reasonable expectation as to the quality of the images the 
camera would produce, and these were not met. He said the camera was not fit for purpose 
and the image quality not as described.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain circumstances, equal right to claim a refund against 
the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. It isnt disputed here that Mr Bs 
claim met the criteria as to the necessary relationships between the parties and that the 
claim was within the relevant financial limits. The issue for me to decide is whether NewDay 
has treated Mr Bs claim fairly.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant to this complaint. This Act implies terms into 
a contract that goods supplied will be of a satisfactory quality. The Act also sets out what 
remedies are available to the consumer if these statutory rights are not met. This Act also 
says that if the goods are found to be faulty in the first six-months then its assumed the fault 
was present from the point of supply unless there is evidence to suggest that isnt the case. 
After the first six months, then it is for the consumer to show the goods werent of a 
satisfactory quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act satisfactory quality is defined as meeting the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr B says that the copies of the photos the mobile phones camera took clearly show there 
is a fault. He says it is unnecessary for him to arrange for the mobile phone to be inspected 
by an independent engineer and a report prepared. NewDay says that as it does not hold the 
necessary knowledge or expertise in mobile phones (or their cameras) to assess whether a 
fault exists that an independent report is necessary to establish whether there was a fault 
present and if so, what its cause was.
While I appreciate Mr Bs view about the quality of the photos as there is some blurring and 
rounding of the images at the edges, I dont think I can reasonably say this is due to some 
inherent fault of the mobile phone. This is because I have no expert knowledge as to the 
technology, specification and operation of mobile phones and their cameras and the lenses 
that are fitted. So, I dont know whether there any expected characteristics of photos taken 
by this camera in some situations and/or whether there are acceptable limitations as to the 
quality of the pictures in those particular situations. 
As set out by our investigator, there could be a number of reasons for the camera to have 
produced the photos that it has. In light of this, I dont think there is enough evidence to 
establish that there is a manufacturing fault with the phone, be that with the hardware or 
software. I therefore havent seen enough evidence to say a reasonable person would consider the phone of unsatisfactory quality in all the relevant circumstances 
As I dont think there is sufficient evidence to establish the presence of an inherent fault, I 
think it was reasonable for NewDay to have requested Mr B to have the mobile phone 
inspected and a report provided. Ive seen that although Mr B would have to cover the cost 
of this report, but this would be reimbursed if his claim was successful.
Ive also seen that at this point, Mr Bs section 75 claim hasnt been declined. If a report is 
forthcoming, then NewDay will review it. I think this is fair and I dont think I can reasonably 
say NewDay has acted unreasonably in the way it has handled Mr Bs section 75 claim. 
However, NewDay has accepted that there was unnecessary delay in its dealing with Mr Bs 
complaint about its handling of the section 75 claim. It has offered Mr B £50 compensation 
for that. I think this is a fair amount when taking into account the impact the delay would 
have had on Mr B. I accepted it caused him distress and inconvenience. If that 
compensation hasnt yet been paid then I would ask NewDay to do so.
Putting things right
Although Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint as to NewDays handling of his section 75 claim 
I agree that NewDay could have been more proactive in respect of his complaint that 
requiring a report was unnecessary. I am asking NewDay to pay Mr B £50 compensation for 
that delay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
B, Im not upholding his complaint that NewDay Ltd unfairly handled his section 75 claim. 
However, I am asking NewDay Ltd to pay Mr B, if it hasnt already, £50 as compensation for 
the delay in responding to his complaint which caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman