DRN-3563639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain National House Building Council handled their warranty claim 
poorly.
Mr and Mrs W have been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the actions of their representative as being those of Mr and Mrs W. Although in 
places Ive referred directly to the representative. Similarly Ive referred to the actions of 
NHBCs agents as being its own.  
What happened
In November 2014 Mr and Mr W made a claim against their NHBC building warranty. They 
had discovered damp in their property. Repairs were completed in January 2017, but were 
unsuccessful. Further repairs were completed in July 2019, but were again unsuccessful. A 
third and final attempt was completed in September 2022.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how NHBC handled the claim  in particular its failure to 
repair the damage effectively first time around. They werent satisfied with its various 
complaint responses, so came to this service. 
They say scaffolding, in place for a number of years because of NHBCs failure to repair the 
problem effectively, caused them detriment. They couldnt use their garden for several 
summers, they lost natural light to their home and suffered additional building work noise. 
They also complain NHBCs communication was inadequate and frustrating. 
NHBC has acknowledged some errors  including the 2019 repairs being inadequate. It 
offered Mr and Mrs W £1,800 compensation to recognise the impact of its mistakes. They 
arent satisfied with that amount  feeling it doesnt adequately compensate for what they 
have experienced.  
Recent submissions from Mr and Mrs Ws representative raise complaint points that go 
beyond their original concerns at the distress and inconvenience caused by NHBCs failure 
to make an effective repair. The latest issues include the NHBCs choice of paint colour for 
render and damage to wood, metal work and tiles. 
Although these are related to the initial subject of complaint, these events occurred, and the 
complaints were raised, sometime after Mr and Mrs Ws original referral to this service. And 
whilst I accept Mr and Mrs W may share his feelings, these recent complaint points seem to 
be the primarily those of the representative. 
For these reasons I feel it would make sense for the latter issues to be considered in a 
separate complaint. That could be in Mr and Mrs Ws name or that of the representative, as 
a leaseholder at the property and policy holder.
Our investigator felt NHBC wasnt responsible for any avoidable delays. She felt its offer of 
£1,800 compensation was fair. So she didnt recommend it do anything more. Mr and Mrs W 
didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs W or NHBC have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
The key question for me is - is the compensation already offered by NHBC fair and 
reasonable? By that I mean is it enough to adequately reflect the impact on Mr and Mr W of 
its mistakes. Having considered everything I think it is. So Im not going to require NHBC to 
pay anything more or do anything differently. 
I considered the timeline of events and NHBCs explanations. Ive taken into account Mr and 
Mrs Ws comments on its performance and the impact on them. Im not going to go into deep 
analysis of NHBCs management of the claim. Im not going to pinpoint where it did and 
didnt make mistakes. Doing so wouldnt serve any real purpose. Thats because even if I 
accepted all Mr and Mrs W say about NHBCs failures and the impact on them Id still 
conclude that it had already offered enough compensation.
Unfortunately NHBCs mistakes did result in long term disruption to Mr and Mrs W. This 
included restricted use of a garden area and a loss of natural light. I accept that would be an 
inconvenience, particularly over a prolonged period. In addition the avoidable long-term 
engagement with HNBC was no doubt frustrating and distressful at times. But Im satisfied 
£1,800 is enough to recognise the additional and unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
its responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require National House Building Council to pay any 
further compensation or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman