DRN-3135914
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Close Brothers Limited (CBL) which provided a loan enabling 
her to pay monthly for her car insurance.
What happened
Miss W took out a car insurance policy in January 2020 and arranged to pay for this monthly 
by virtue of a running-account credit agreement with CBL. In effect CBL paid the insurer up 
front and Miss W made monthly payments to CBL to repay that loan.
In February 2020 the insurer put up the premium, the additional cost of which was covered 
by CBL and CBL increased Miss Ws monthly repayments. The monthly amount was 
reduced a little while later following a credit being applied by the insurer. 
In 2021 Miss W told CBL she was unhappy. She said she had really struggled with the 
repayments and she felt CBL shouldnt have lent to her. CBL said it had done some credit 
searches and it later told us that it had done an affordability check. It thought it had handled 
matters adequately.
Our Investigator noted that on Miss Ws credit search there were signs that she likely 
couldnt afford the lending. She felt CBL had not performed proportionate checks to assess 
the affordability of the loan for Miss W  and that if it had it would have seen it was not 
affordable. So she felt CBL should refund to Miss W all interest and charges shed paid 
against this agreement.   
CBL felt that was unfair as Miss W had not been in default on any payment arrangements 
until May 2020  after it had done its checks. It said it had not been made aware by Miss W 
during the life of the agreement that she was having financial difficulties. So, it said, it had 
not had any reason to enquire about her incomings and outgoings.
The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding it. In short, and as our Investigator found, Im not persuaded 
CBL completed reasonable and proportionate checks when arranging this loan. I think CBL 
could and should have done more to determine Miss W could afford the loan. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules and regulations in place required CBL to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. The checks 
needed to ensure that her repayments of this loan were sustainable.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Here I know CBL has said Miss W passed its checks. But I think its important to understand 
that, whilst it seems she passed the checks, her credit file shows that, around the time the 
checks were completed, shed been missing payments on other agreements. As CBL has 
stated, Miss W didnt go into default on those agreement until May 2020, after it had run its 
checks. But a default occurs when payments have been missed, and the credit file does 
show missed payments. I think this then means that in this case to fulfil its obligation of 
making reasonable and proportionate checks, CBL needed to do more. I say that because 
the missed payments suggest Miss W was already having trouble meeting the obligations 
she already had. To me that should have initiated a logical query for CBL  can she afford 
any more lending?. In other words if she cant maintain existing arrangements, is an 
additional drain on her resources sustainable? 
I think that, if CBL had asked itself that question, in order to answer it, it would have needed 
to obtain details from Miss W about her incomings and outgoings. CBL has said it never did 
this. But I think if it had it would have come to understand that Miss Ws financial situation 
was potentially subject to change  she had only just started a new job, and was struggling 
to meet her current commitments. As I said, the credit report shows some payments had 
been missed. And I think her bank statements further evidence her struggle at that time as 
they show the account rarely held any significant positive balance. CBL could have 
discovered all of this if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks. I think if it had 
it wouldnt have lent to Miss W. 
If CBL had not lent to Miss W she would not have incurred the cost of the interest and 
charges associated with the borrowing. So I think it needs to return those costs to her, plus 
interest*. But the fact of the loan will have to remain on Miss Ws record. The parties have 
confirmed that all payments were made against this loan and it closed in the normal course 
of its expected life. So there is no adverse data in Miss Ws credit report in relation to this 
loan which Id otherwise likely require CBL to remove. 
Putting things right
I require CBL to refund to Miss W all interest and charges which applied to her agreement, 
plus interest* on any of these sums paid by Miss W from the date of payment until settlement 
is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires CBL to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Close Brothers Limited to provide the redress set out about 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman