DRN-1921119
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank Plc have mishandled a cheque payment intended 
for their joint account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The payee name originally written on the cheque did not match that of either account 
holder, therefore the cheque was correctly rejected as the Image Clearing System 
(ICS) was unable to match the name to the account. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D 
had crossed out the misspelt name and wrote the correct one above it. But I do not 
consider it unreasonable that a manual amendment such as this would be rejected by 
a bank, in order to mitigate the risks of cheque fraud for example.  
As the cheque had been rightfully rejected, it was subsequently destroyed. I dont 
think this is an unreasonable process for Lloyds to have followed because the 
cheque (as a payment instrument) can no longer fulfil its purpose, and the scanned 
image captured by the ICS then replaces the physical cheque for record purposes. I 
also dont think its reasonable to expect banks to retain every single cheque that is 
rejected just in case the customer wanted it back as a keep sake, as this is neither 
necessary nor practical for the bank to administer. 
Mr and Mrs D think they have been failed by Lloyds banking processes. But I think in 
these circumstances Lloyds' processes have worked exactly as they should have. Mr 
and Mrs D do not have to use such automated services in the future if they have lost 
trust in them, and they still have the option to pay in cheques the traditional way over 
the counter with an employee of the branch if that is the case.
I appreciate the letter sent by Lloyds may have been addressed to Mrs D rather than 
Mr D. But given that Mrs D is a joint account holder, it is not as though Lloyds have 
incorrectly written to somebody who is not privy to the account dealings, or have 
breached their data protection obligations. And even if Mr D is the first named 
account holder (such that Lloyds should have addressed the letter to him) I dont 
consider this to have likely caused any distress or inconvenience, as the letter clearly 
still reached him in any event. So it is not something I consider would warrant any 
compensation, even if this was an error.
So, for the reasons given above, I will not be directing Lloyds to take any further action in 
relation to this complaint, as I do not consider they have done anything substantially wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman