DRN-3582073
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
an authorised push payment scam involving the transfer of money to an account held at 
Lloyds.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them at 
length here. 
In summary, Mr R fell victim to an impersonation scam. This involved Mr R being tricked into 
believing he was sending money at his daughters request to pay a bill. Unfortunately, in 
reality hed been dealing with a fraudster and he was not paying a bill for his daughter.
He made transfers from his own bank accounts to an account held at Lloyds. 
After the deception had come to light, one of banks from which Mr R had sent money 
refunded him in full for those sums. But the bank from which hed sent the first payment did 
not refund him. This payment was for the sum of £1,835.
Lloyds, once notified of the fraud, restricted the recipient account. However, it said that no 
money remained to be recovered by the time Mr R had first reported the scam.
Mr Rs bank and Lloyds are both signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional 
protection for the victims of APP scams such as this. But it does not mean that all scam 
payments must be refunded. In its capacity as the receiving bank here, Lloyds didnt think it 
was liable to reimburse the remaining losses Mr R incurred  either in full or in part. 
Mr R says Lloyds, as the Receiving Firm, is responsible (at least in part) for what happened 
and the loss he incurred. Mr R wants it to refund him the remaining loss because he 
suspects one of its accounts may have been opened and used fraudulently  if so, he 
believes Lloyds did not carry out appropriate due diligence to prevent accounts being 
opened for the purpose of committing fraud.
Lloyds said that it had acted promptly after being notified of the scam. But the funds Mr R 
had paid into the account were utilised by the account holder prior to Mr R informing his 
bank of the fraud. So, Lloyds was unable to return any of the money Mr R had originally 
sent. 
Lloyds also says it complied with regulatory requirements when opening and managing the 
account. It had no way of knowing that a specific account holder would subsequently use an 
account for scams or fraudulent purposes. It advised that upon being made aware of 
inappropriate conduct on accounts it investigates and takes the necessary steps to close an 
account down where applicable and recover any funds where possible. The bank could not 
disclose any details of its scam investigation due to data protection laws and/or to avoid 
compromising any Police investigations.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review and our Investigator looked 
into things. She didnt recommend that Lloyds needed to do anything further. Overall, she 
was satisfied Lloyds had met the standards required of it under the CRM Code and 
otherwise. She didnt think Lloyds could reasonably have done more to prevent Mr Rs loss 
from this payment and so wasnt responsible to refund it. She believed Lloyds had met the 
requirements it was under in relation to the account opening and she was satisfied it had 
responded appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Mr R remained concerned that Lloyds could have been at fault. He has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint afresh and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Lloyds  as the Receiving 
Bank for the account to which Mr R made payment.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im not upholding his complaint about Lloyds. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam, and hes been left out of pocket as a result. But of course, 
this principally followed from the actions of those criminals who deceived him. It doesnt 
mean Lloyds should necessarily bear responsibility for what happened.
Having reviewed everything in detail, I dont find Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
its answering of Mr Rs complaint. Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that Lloyds met 
its requirements under both the CRM Code and otherwise, and therefore isnt liable to 
reimburse Mr Rs remaining losses. I know this wont be the answer Mr R wants to hear, but 
Ill explain in more detail why I have reached this decision. 
Amongst other things, regulated firms receiving payments, like Lloyds here, are required to 
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCAs Principles for Businesses 2) 
and to comply with legal and regulatory requirements to, amongst other things, counter 
money laundering and the financing of terrorism. 
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship).
And, more generally, given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse. I consider good practice meant not just looking out for situations where a 
customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might be the 
perpetrator of fraud, a money mule, or the victim of an account takeover. 
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Lloyds has signed up 
to. The relevant requirements for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code (at the time of this 
scam) include the following: 
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures to prevent, 
detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. Where the receiving Firm 
identifies funds where there are concerns that they may be the proceeds of an APP 
scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely manner. 
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for criminal 
purposes. []
Detection 
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds. [] 
Response 
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving Firm, 
the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best 
Practice Standards. [] 
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Lloyds met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at: whether Lloyds opened the receiving account 
correctly; whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Lloyds any cause for concern; and finally, once notified of fraud, did Lloyds act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. If I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
these, I will consider whether Lloyds acts or omissions contributed to Mr Rs loss.  
While Lloyds has provided our service with information about the receiving bank account 
(both initially to our Investigator, as well as in response to my subsequent enquiries) I must 
explain that it has done so in confidence. This is to allow us to discharge our investigatory 
functions and Lloyds has provided that which is necessary for the determination of this 
complaint. 
Due to data protection laws our service cant share any information about the beneficiary, 
the receiving bank account, or about any investigations or actions Lloyds subsequently took. 
However, I would like to assure Mr R, I have requested and received the information I need 
from Lloyds to fairly determine his complaint and thoroughly reviewed and considered all that 
information before reaching my decision.
Prevention - account opening
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the losses of an APP scam victim 
when opening the beneficiary account, Id generally ask to see evidence that: it correctly 
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account. 
I appreciate Mr R has said he doesnt think Lloyds has followed the correct procedures, as 
an account was opened and then subsequently used fraudulently. But having reviewed the 
relevant information, and in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
carried out checks to verify the identity of the named account holder and did its due diligence 
when opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the time that I think 
reasonably couldve alerted Lloyds that the account it was opening would later be used 
fraudulently. Im satisfied Lloyds has taken reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being 
opened for criminal purposes and it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Rs loss when 
opening the account. 
Detection - account activityThe primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as 
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. 
This ties in with long standing regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies 
have to monitor their business relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud -
which would include giving consideration to unusual and out of character transactions. 
Based on my review of the account history for the beneficiary account, I cant say there was 
any account activity that I think should reasonably have stood out to Lloyds as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. 
Im also satisfied there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Mr R 
made, and no other red flags where it might reasonably be argued that Lloyds had sufficient 
grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment instructions. 
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Lloyds ought reasonably to have had concerns to the extent I would have 
expected it to have intervened. I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Rs loss here 
either. 
Response to notification of fraud 
The relevant Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate 
action, in a prompt manner, upon notification of an APP fraud. It must notify the Sending 
Firm if any funds remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Lloyds 
took the necessary actions required of it, and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no 
funds remained in the account that could be recovered  because the first payment Mr R 
sent had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account. 
So, taking the above into consideration, Im satisfied that following notification of APP fraud 
Lloyds responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP 
fraud.
Overall, while Mr R was the unfortunate victim of a scam, I find Lloyds met the standards 
required of it under the CRM Code. I dont think Lloyds couldve done anything more as the 
Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Rs money. And it responded appropriately 
once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think Lloyds is liable to reimburse Mr R for 
his remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman