DRN-3253426
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Arval UK Limited didnt consent to her request to assign a Hire 
Agreement to her son.
What happened
Mrs H acquired a car by means of a Hire Agreement (the Agreement) with Arval. She says 
that when she entered into the Agreement (September 2020) she told the dealer the car was 
for her son. She says Arval wouldnt grant credit to her son at that time because he had an 
outstanding loan. But, Mrs H says she understood the Agreement could be assigned 
(transferred) to her son once the loan was settled. Once the Agreement was assigned all of 
the rights and obligations of Mrs H would be transferred to her son. 
Mrs H says that after her son had settled the loan, she asked Arval to assign the Agreement 
to him. She says he is using the car and has been making all of the monthly repayments to 
Arval from his bank account. She says Arval refused to assign the agreement. She says her 
son has a perfect credit file, and Arval didnt bother to carry out a credit search on her son 
before declining her request. She complained to Arval.
Arval investigated her complaint. It said it had declined to assign the agreement because it 
wasnt willing to grant credit to her son. Mrs H wasnt satisfied with this response. She 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He thought Arval was entitled to decide who it 
provided credit to, in line with its own internal lending criteria. In circumstances where it had 
decided not to provide credit to Mrs Hs son, he didnt think it was obliged to assign the 
Agreement.
Mrs H didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that when she referred her complaint to our service 
Mrs H raised additional complaints about certain actions taken by Arval after she acquired 
the car. She told us shed received parking fines incurred at locations where the car had 
never been and she also mentioned the car had been registered twice. Mrs H needs to raise 
these complaints separately with Arval first. So, Im not dealing with those issues in this 
decision.
Mrs H says that when she took out the Agreement, shed made clear she wanted it to be in 
her sons name. She says she only agreed to put it in her own name because she was 
advised by the dealer to do it that way as we could change it over after her son had cleared 
his outstanding loan.
Its very difficult to know exactly what was said before the Agreement was entered into. Arval 
says it has no record stating that Mrs H told it, at the time, that the application was for her 
son. It says it shouldve been given this information at the time. And, it says, Mrs H didnt tell 
it about this.
Arval also says Mrs Hs son had applied for credit with it several times previously, through 
the same dealer, and hadnt been successful on any of those occasions. 
As noted below, the Agreement did include a right for Mrs H to ask Arval to transfer the 
Agreement to someone else. And, I think it is likely, if these matters had been discussed, 
she wouldve been told she could ask Arval to transfer the Agreement to her son at a future 
date. But, having considered everything here, including what Mrs H has told us, Im not 
persuaded on balance, she was told that a request to transfer the Agreement to her son was 
guaranteed to be accepted. 
When reaching that view, Ive taken account of what the Agreement stated about Mrs Hs 
right to assign it to her son. Mrs H signed the Agreement by way of acceptance and she was 
given a copy of it. So, she shouldve been aware of its contents and the fact that Arvals 
consent was required before the Agreement could be transferred to her son. 
The Agreement here includes the following wording:
13. ASSIGNMENT AND AGENCY
We may assign, transfer, dispose of or create any interest in or over any of Our rights and obligations 
under this Agreement. You may not assign any of Your rights and obligations under this Agreement, 
without Our prior written consent.
So, Mrs H was permitted to assign the Agreement to her son provided she obtained Arvals 
prior written consent. As mentioned above when an Agreement is assigned to someone 
else, all of the rights and obligations of the party making the assignment (in this case Mrs H) 
are transferred. This would mean that, after the assignment was completed, Arval could no 
longer look to Mrs H to fulfil any of her obligations under the Agreement. Instead it wouldve 
had to look to her son, as the assignee, to fulfil all of those obligations. So, before giving 
consent to the assignment, I can understand why Arval would want to satisfy itself that 
Mrs Hs son would be able to meet all of the obligations under the Agreement and that Arval 
wouldnt put itself in a position where it had increased its risk.
It is the case that a lender can decide who its lends to. That is a matter for its own 
commercial judgement, in line with its internal lending policies. In this case, Arval says 
Mrs Hs son didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mrs H says her son has a perfect credit record. And, she says hes the one who has been 
making the payments. So, she doesnt agree Arval would be taking on any change in risk. 
She says Arval didnt bother to carry out a credit search.
The credit file is only one of the factors that a lender will take into account before making a 
decision to lend. But we did ask Mrs Hs son to grant his consent so that we could look at his 
credit file. He has provided the credit file to us. 
The credit file report describes Mrs Hs sons credit score as fair and I can see there is 
some adverse information recorded in 2017. 
Arval says that Mrs Hs sons credit profile didnt meet its risk appetite for the provision of a 
credit facility. It says it had previously declined credit to him on a number of occasions  
including shortly before the date of its Agreement with Mrs H. In these circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been necessary for it to carry out a further credit search at the date when 
Mrs H requested the assignment. That may explain why there is no record of a search on his 
credit file at that date. 
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded Arval acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it didnt grant its consent to permit Mrs H to assign the Agreement to her son. As our 
investigator said it is entitled to decide who it lends to. 
I havent seen any evidence to say it didnt act in line with its internal lending policies.
Arval has explained to Mrs H this means she can either continue with the Agreement or 
terminate it in line with the terms and conditions. I dont require it to do anything further to 
resolve this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman