DRN-3880688
The complaint
Mr C and Mr P complain that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to set out the excesses clearly 
within the policy documents of his home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020, Mr C and Mr P took out home insurance through Sainsburys Bank. The policy 
renewed in 2021.
In 2022, Mr C and Mr Ps basement flooded due to problems with their neighbours drains. 
So they made a claim. They were told theyd need to pay a policy excess of £350 for escape 
of water claims and a voluntary buildings excess of £250, totalling £600.
Mr C and Mr P raised a complaint to Sainsburys Bank as they didnt think this had been 
clearly set out in the policy documents. They say the voluntary excess is for building claims 
and doesnt say its applicable for escape of water claims as well. Theyve told us that had 
this been explained to them, they wouldve reduced the voluntary excess as it didnt alter the 
overall cost of the policy by much.
Sainsburys Bank maintained its position in regard to the policy excess. But it acknowledged 
that there were delays in dealing with the complaint, so it offered £50 compensation. Mr C 
and Mr P werent happy with this response, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the excesses were set out clearly on 
the policy schedule which Mr C and Mr P were provided with at the point of sale. They were 
encouraged to read the policy information to ensure they were happy with it and had 14 days 
to cancel if they werent. So he didnt think Sainsburys Bank needed to do anything more to 
put things right.
Mr C and Mr P didnt agree. They said they were persuaded to take out the buildings excess 
during the sales pitch and they fail to see why it applies when there was no damage to the 
building itself, but rather an escape of water. As such, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On page one of Mr C and Mr Ps home insurance policy schedule, it says:
Section A: Buildings cover  Excesses
Compulsory buildings excess £100
Voluntary buildings excess £250
This is in addition to any other applicable excess (except subsidence, heave and 
landslip.
Subsidence, heave & landslip excess £1,000
Escape of water excess £350
Whilst I appreciate Mr C and Mr P say they didnt suffer any building damage, the claim they 
have made falls under the buildings section of their home insurance policy. As such, the 
excesses for buildings cover will apply here.
The information above shows that the excess to be applied to a claim will depend on what 
type of claim is being made. So if its a standard buildings claim, the excess will be £100. But 
if its a subsidence claim, the excess will be £1,000. In this case, the claim was an escape of 
water  so the excess applicable is £350.
However, the policy also has a voluntary buildings excess of £250. And the policy clearly 
says this will be in addition to any other applicable excess. So this excess will also be 
applicable to the claim and added to the escape of water excess of £350.
Based on the policy schedule, Im satisfied the information regarding the policy excesses 
was clear and made available to Mr C and Mr P after taking out the policy. And they had a 
14-day cooling off period to cancel the policy if theyd been unhappy with the level of cover 
provided. 
I appreciate Mr Cs concerns that we havent taken into account Sainsburys Banks sales 
pitch which he says persuaded him to take the policy out with the voluntary buildings excess. 
Ive asked Sainsburys Bank to provide me with the call recording of this sale. But 
Sainsburys Bank has advised that Mr C and Mr P purchased the policy online and as such, 
there was no sales call. 
Sainsburys Bank has provided screenshots of its sales process on its website, which shows 
that the excesses are set out before purchase of the policy. And Im satisfied its made clear 
that the voluntary excess will be applied in addition to the compulsory excess.
I appreciate Mr C and Mr P may have spoken to Sainsburys Bank about the policy at 
another time, but in any event, Im satisfied the information has been made available to them 
both before and after they took out the policy.  
If Mr C and Mr P wish to accept Sainsburys Banks offer of £50 for the delay in responding 
to their complaint, they should contact Sainsburys Bank directly to discuss this. In regard to 
this complaint, I make no award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman