DRN-3899417
The complaint
Mr S complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his former 
employer and three Personal Pension plans (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
What happened
Mr S was introduced to Portal in 2015 after hed been in contact with another business, 
which Ill refer to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of a 
regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. Portal had an established business arrangement with Firm C, 
whereby Portal would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the client back to 
Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed 
for Mr S.
The fact find from the time said Mr S was aged 39, single and working full-time earning 
around £31,000 per year. It said he lived in a property he owned, worth around £100,000 
with an outstanding mortgage of £65,000. It said he had no savings but he had life 
assurance to cover his mortgage. And that he had outstanding debts totalling £2,700 that he 
was repaying at around £100 per month. The suitability report notes Mr S had three PPs with 
respective transfer values of £7,914.74, £11,335.07 and £4,781.55. It also said he had a 
preserved final salary pension with a transfer value of £6,969.14, that was projected to pay a 
pension of £727 per year plus tax free cash of £1,913 from age 60. And that Mr S likely 
wanted to retire at age 67. 
Portal carried out a risk-profiling exercise and said Mr S had a moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk (ATR). At the end of May 2015 it recommended he transfer his OPS and PP 
into a SIPP to meet his objectives. The suitability report said he wanted to consolidate his 
funds, and he was seeking flexibility and improved death benefits. Mr S said the pension 
plan under review was important to his retirement. And Portal said that due to Mr S ATR, 
stated retirement age and needs and objectives it would recommend he invest in certain 
fund asset classes, but the investment advice would be provided to him by Firm C.
Mr S accepted Portals recommendation and his pension benefits were transferred to his 
SIPP a few months later and some of the investments made were as follows:
Biomass Investments Plc - £1,900;
Strategic Residential Dev - £1,900;
Brisa Investments Plc - £1,900;
Lakeview UK Invest - £1,900; and
Motion Picture Global - £1,900.
In September 2020, Mr S complained to Portal, unhappy that hed been advised to transfer 
his pensions to a SIPP and invest in high risk, unsuitable, investments. He said he had a low 
risk profile in light of his circumstances and lack of investment experience. 
Portal responded on November 2020, saying that Mr S didnt voice any concerns over his 
established risk profile, that his complaint about the investments ought to be directed to 
Firm C and that he signed a form confirming it had explained the risks in transferring from his 
OPS. 
In December 2020, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators said 
he didnt think Portal had demonstrated that transferring Mr S OPS and PPs into a SIPP 
was in his best interests. The Investigator also said he didnt believe it was possible for 
Portal to provide suitable advice without knowing where the funds were going to be invested. 
And that Portal should put Mr S back into the position he wouldve been in but for the 
unsuitable advice.
While Mr S accepted this, Portal didnt agree. It said, in summary, that it relied on the hurdle 
rate as a more accurate means of measuring the scheme benefits. It said Mr S preferred the 
flexibility of income and being able to nominate his death beneficiary. Portal said Mr S 
investments were recommended by Firm C and so it wasnt responsible for any losses 
attributed to them, although it said it gave its advice in knowledge of the likely investment 
strategy Firm C would employ for Mr S. It added that it had undertaken due diligence on 
Firm C and provided a copy of the Compliance Health Check completed in 2012. Firm C 
said it didnt invest client funds in UCIS so Portal said it shouldnt be held responsible given 
Firm C had deviated from this.
Portal added that the regulators alert of 2013 did not apply to Mr S case, as it only covered 
instances where the other firm was unregulated. As Firm C was regulated, it said Mr S has 
recourse to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and our service. It also 
believed that the redress methodology was unfair, as it didnt take into account that Mr S 
could claim compensation from the FSCS.
So Mr S complaint has been passed to me for a decision. I let Mr S and Portal know I dont 
currently think Portals advice for Mr S to switch his PPs to the SIPP was unsuitable in light 
of his consolidation objective, the lower SIPP charges and the wider range of funds available 
to him as a result. But that I still think its advice was unsuitable overall, for largely the same 
reasons as the Investigator. I also said I currently think Portal should compensate Mr S for 
his full loss, despite receiving compensation from the FSCS. 
Mr S responded, with no further comments, but clarified the amount of compensation he 
received from the FSCS. And we received an automatic reply from Portal, which said in 
summary that its emails are no longer being read and theres no one left at the company to 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal advised Mr S to transfer his OPS and PPs to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation about the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ss underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portals responsibilities ended 
once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available for 
investment. I believe that as Mr Ss financial adviser, Portal still had a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be 
involved. And suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the 
intended investment. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals advice to transfer 
was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought to. At 
the time, the regulator had made clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on 
pension transfers and switches, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying 
investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said: 
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. 
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 said: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well short 
of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In 
particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with integrity 
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6). 
Portal says this alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made the investment 
recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated introducer. It 
believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr S transaction from the scenario that the 
alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the overall suitability of 
the proposed investments. While Ive given that possibility careful thought, I dont agree the 
alert was limited to those very specific circumstances. 
I can see the 2013 alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mr S case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments. 
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these standards have broad application to 
pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. And I 
think the 2014 alert makes it clear that this applies to all firms when providing pension switch 
or transfer advice. So, I think these alerts are relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this 
case. 
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr S it wasnt providing 
advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. 
But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of 
the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont think there 
was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter. 
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be 
able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. 
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Mr S 
under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration of how Mr S funds would be invested. 
COBS 9.2 required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr S. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough 
information from Mr S to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording: 
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Mr S objectives and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr S funds were going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr S would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem 
reasonably possible. 
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of Portals 
advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with integrity); 2 
(exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers interests and 
treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not misleading way) 
and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined above, 
Ive considered Portals advice with these in mind. 
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Mr S transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated and able to 
provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw no issue with 
this. 
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. As   
Mr S appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable advice 
and act in his best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of where    
Mr S funds would be invested. 
Portal has stated that they undertook due diligence on Firm S and provided a copy of the 
Compliance Health Check for Firm S completed by a third party on 12 May 2012. This 
document was over two years old by the time the transfer actually took place. So, I dont 
think it should have been relied on in perpetuity. 
Furthermore, Portal chose to rely on a general statement, given over two years previously, 
that said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially broad 
gradings of risk, might or might not be made in any given case and that UCIS would not be 
recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis on which Portal should have 
assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr S. In my opinion, Portal needed to 
understand the nature of the investments envisaged for Mr S specifically, rather than rely on 
a general statement about Firm Cs investment philosophy. 
This doesnt mean that Im holding Portal responsible for the failings of another regulated 
firm. Ive focused on Portals own responsibilities as the business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Mr S OPS and PPs. Theres no dispute that Portal gave that 
advice and in my view it incorrectly thought it could limit its advice to the transfer without 
seeking information about the investments Firm C intended and eventually arranged for     
Mr S. 
It is clear to me that Firm C and Portal had come to an agreement about their working 
relationship. Firm C didnt have the required regulatory authorisations to give pension 
transfer advice whereas Portal did, and an agreement to work together for pension release 
clients came about. Portal has stressed it had never before agreed to work with another 
authorised firm, as the processes and controls required to set up the relationship would be 
disproportionate to the level of business it might bring about. However, an exception was 
made for Firm C, as it had proposed to send significant levels of business to Portal. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that Portal needed to do more to ensure that the two 
firms worked together to give suitable pension transfer advice to clients. Aside from the initial 
due diligence checks carried out at the outset of the relationship, I havent seen any 
evidence that further checks were made by Portal to satisfy itself that the pension transfer 
advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice they were receiving 
from Firm C. The need to do so was, as I say, a necessary part of the suitability assessment 
carried out by Portal on a case by case basis for individual clients. But it was also, in my 
view, a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship 
itself, so that any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice could be identified and 
addressed. I dont think this required Portal to police the activities of Firm C, but it did require Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that both firms were acting, together, in their clients best 
interests. 
In reality, having followed Portals transfer advice, a significant proportion of the funds 
remaining in Mr S SIPP (after fees were deducted) were invested in UCIS. I think the 
regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. It said that as well as UCIS only being 
eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net worth 
investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of 
UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% 
of their retirement provision. In any case, I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr S at all. 
Theres nothing to indicate Mr S had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or 
understand the risks associated with these types of investments. 
In my view, if Portal had requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr S funds in UCIS, it couldve queried this, given 
this was at odds with what it had told Portal about its investment philosophy.
I dont agree with Portals assessment of Mr S risk rating as moderately adventurous and 
will explain why later. However, I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve 
become apparent something was wrong with Firms Cs proposal and that the OPS transfer 
and PP switches were therefore unsuitable and would likely to lead to Mr S being exposed to 
more risk than Portal considered appropriate. I think its likely that, having realised how 
significantly the investments Firm C intended to make differed from those that were likely to 
be suitable for Mr S, Portal couldve taken preventative action or at the very least made Mr S 
aware of the situation so he could, if servicing rights had already been transferred to Firm C, 
have sought to take corrective action himself.
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr S. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal to have 
advised Mr S that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS and PPs in those 
circumstances. If Portal had warned Mr S against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal,      
I think its more likely than not that Mr S wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with 
those. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ss funds were ultimately invested. Portals recommendation that he 
transfer his OPS and switch his PPs to a SIPP in the first place is an important 
consideration, which Ive considered below. 
The advice to transfer 
OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6) at the time of the advice, stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests. Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only likely be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances. 
At the time of Portals advice, Mr S was 39 years old and employed. Based on a risk profile 
Mr S completed, Portal said it believed he had a moderately adventurous ATR. But, while    
I think Mr S was likely willing to take some risk with his pension given he had around 20 
years until his OPS benefits became payable and longer until he expected to retire, and one 
of the fact finds mentions the possibility of an inheritance at some point in future, I dont 
think he could be classed as a moderately adventurous investor.
I say this because, in the risk profiling questionnaires Mr S said he doesnt find investment 
matters easy to understand and that he hasnt had any investments before. It also said he 
generally prefers bank deposits to riskier investments and that he isnt willing to take 
substantial risk to earn such rewards. Mr S had no savings and, while he had three PPs, he 
didnt have significant overall pension provision for his retirement. And this OPS provided a 
guaranteed income at retirement. So it seems to me Mr S OPS was one of his most 
valuable assets. And, based on this, I think Portal should have recognised the significance of 
Mr S OPS and proceeded with caution. 
Portals advice was given at a time when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 
'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates 
when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given 
in this case. The discount rate was 5.1% per year for twenty years to retirement. For 
comparison, the regulators assumed future growth rates for personal pension illustrations 
were 2% (low); 5% (intermediate); and 8% (high). 
In terms of the investment risk Mr S would be taking on by transferring, Portal produced a 
Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report which showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS at age 60 was 9%. So, the funds transferred needed to consistently 
grow at this rate for Mr S not to be financially worse off by transferring. This was much 
higher than the discount rate of 5.1% and the regulators projection rates. So I think Mr S 
was likely to receive benefits of a lower value at retirement if investing in line with his attitude 
to risk. 
Portal says the hurdle rate of 5.92% demonstrates that the transfer was financially viable, 
given it projected returns of 7.16%. I recognise Portals model projected returns of 7.16% a 
year before charges, which was slightly closer to the critical yield. But Portal didnt know how 
Firm C was going to be investing Mr S funds so I dont think this figure could reasonably be 
relied upon. And, in any event, I dont think it was reasonable to base the advice to transfer 
on the hurdle rate. 
COBS 19.1.7 says: 
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
Portals reliance on the hurdle rate in Mr S case ignores the importance of the critical yield in 
demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up and is essentially saying that it was suitable to give up a guaranteed income without gaining anything, because he could get by 
without it. 
But using the hurdle rate is not supported by the customers own responses to the risk 
questions, as when asked how important it was as part of his overall retirement plans, he 
stated that it was important to him. This doesnt indicate that the consumer was happy to 
give up a secure income in retirement. I am therefore satisfied that it is appropriate to use 
the critical yield to measure the value of the benefits being given up and not the hurdle rate. 
A consumer may still have wanted to transfer from an OPS to a PP if doing so offered 
opportunities or alternatives which were not available within the ceding scheme and fulfilled 
a genuine need. The Key Financial Objectives on page eight of the suitability report listed 
objectives which would be met by transferring the pension plans to the SIPP. But having 
considered these carefully, I dont believe any of these justified Portals recommendation to 
transfer. 
The suitability report says being able to draw income flexibly would be a useful benefit to 
Mr S and that flexibility to do so was important, but I note he considered it useful, rather than 
a significant objective. And, as explained above, his answers to the risk questions dont 
support that he was happy to give up a secure income in retirement. 
The suitability report also said enhanced death benefits were important to Mr S, as he 
wanted to provide for his brother should he predecease him in retirement. And I agree that 
transferring did provide a higher lump sum death benefit for Mr S beneficiaries at the outset, 
but in my view, this didnt outweigh the loss of guaranteed income in retirement while he was 
living. While I appreciate Mr S may have wanted to pass on as much money as possible to 
his beneficiaries in the event of his death, Im conscious that the main purpose of a pension 
is to provide an income in retirement. Other considerations, like death benefits, are 
secondary, particularly where there was nothing to suggest Mr S was in ill health, such that it 
wasnt expected that his pension fund would need to support him for a long time. 
Furthermore, Mr S had life insurance and I wouldve expected the adviser to explore the 
possibility of increasing his level of cover if providing a further legacy for his family was 
genuinely important to him. Given Mr S age, I think this would likely have been affordable. 
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portal covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portal 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer at all. 
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portal not to transfer, Mr S 
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would have. Theres nothing to suggest that he 
was seriously considering transferring out of his OPS prior to speaking with Portal. And I 
think its more likely Mr S would have chosen to stay with his OPS. As a professional adviser 
which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, Portals recommendation 
wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have dissuaded Mr S from 
proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its possible Mr S may 
still have wanted to go ahead anyway but, for the reasons Ive given above, I think thats 
very unlikely.
The advice to switch
Mr S was advised to switch three of his PPs, so Ive considered whether this was suitable for 
him.In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) published a checklist for 
pension switching. And some of the key issues it thought should be focussed on was 
whether the consumer had been switched to a pension that doesnt match their ATR and 
personal circumstances and/or was more expensive than their existing one(s) or a 
stakeholder pension, without good reason. 
The SIPP wasnt particularly expensive  the AMC was 0.5%. I appreciate there would be a 
cost to switching his existing plans into it, including the 5% initial fee charged by Portal 
charges associated with Firm Cs ongoing investment advice, plus other product or fund 
charges depending on the investments selected by it. Portal also didnt know of the 
additional charges to be made by Firm C. But Mr S existing three PPs had an average cost 
of around 1.23%, which I consider to be higher than what he could achieve elsewhere. And it 
appears one of his PPs had a low average rate of return at 0.92% per year over 5 years but 
an AMC of 1.7%. In which case, I dont think Portals advice to switch Mr S PPs to the SIPP 
was unreasonable in light of his consolidation objective  the SIPP has a lower overall 
charge, it provides Mr S with ease of administration and the availability of a wider range of 
funds.  
While Portals recommendation that Mr S switch his PPs to a SIPP might not have been 
unsuitable in that case, as noted previously the 2013 and 2014 alerts applied to pension 
switches and not just transfers, so Portal had to consider the suitability of the underlying 
UCIS funds Mr S PPs were to be invested in. And, for the reasons already given, I think 
these were likely to lead to Mr S being exposed to far more risk than appropriate given I 
think he should have been classed as wanting to take some risk rather than a moderately 
adventurous investor. 
Instead, I think suitable advice would have been for Mr S to invest in regulated mainstream 
funds. I think Mr S went ahead because he trusted Portals advice. And had it recommended 
he invest in this way within the SIPP, I think hed have done so for that same reason. 
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr S are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portal. Had it not been for this, I dont believe Mr S would have invested 
a large share of his fund in UCIS. So, I think Portal is responsible for his losses.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice is 
to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with his circumstances and 
attitude to risk.
Is Portal wholly responsible for Mr S loss?
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr S are as a result of the unsuitable advice 
provided by Portal. Had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe Mr S would 
have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS to the SIPP or invested such a large share of 
his fund in UCIS. So, I think Portal is fully responsible for his losses. 
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have also separately caused some of Mr S 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portal. In the circumstances, though, I think holding Portal fully 
responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that 
anything Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portal of its responsibility for     
Mr S losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr S to Portal. Portal advised Mr S 
to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits to be 
transferred to it. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr S to invest a significant share of his 
SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portals understanding that it could reasonably 
limit its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the 
proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr S on the investments. It was only 
as a result of Portals involvement that Mr S transferred the funds held in his existing 
pensions to the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully 
reliant on the funds being transferred first; if that hadnt happened, Mr S couldnt have 
invested as he did.
Portal argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice and as Firm C is in default 
Mr S should avail himself of any compensation he may be entitled to by making a claim to 
the FSCS. It also says that the amount of any award made against Portal should be limited 
by taking that payment into account. In ordinary circumstances, as the FSCS describes itself 
as a fund of last resort, it is my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where 
it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a 
reasonable prospect of the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss 
suffered.
Nonetheless, whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer to 
recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS. 
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Mr S £5,716.35 before the determination 
of Mr S complaint with this service. In those circumstances, Im aware that as a condition of 
accepting compensation from the FSCS, Mr S was asked to give to the FSCS an 
assignment of his rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have enabled the 
FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third parties and the 
PI insurer of Firm C. 
It follows that for Mr S to make a complaint to this service about Portal, he needed to ask the 
FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. I can see Mr S has now obtained that which 
contains, as a condition, the following requirement: 
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights. 
Portal may argue that because Mr S has already recovered £5,716.35 from the FSCS, it 
should not have to account to him for that portion of his loss. However, as per the 
reassignment of rights agreement Mr S entered into with the FSCS, I can see he has agreed 
to repay the compensation he received from the FSCS if he receives compensation from a 
third party relating to the same claim. 
From this, I think that: 
1. There is no real risk of Mr S benefiting from double recovery, as hes contractually 
required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it paid to him; 
2. I have seen nothing to suggest Mr S is unlikely to comply with that requirement in 
accordance with the deed of reassignment; and3. If I didnt direct Portal to pay compensation to Mr S for the full amount of his loss (in 
circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), he 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation he 
receives from Portal and would, in turn, be left out of pocket. 
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portal to pay Mr S 
compensation for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr S as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if Portal had given him suitable advice. I think Mr S would have remained in the OPS. 
And while I think he would have switched his PPs to the SIPP, I think he would have 
invested in mainstream, regulated, funds in line with his circumstances and attitude to risk. 
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Portal must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. My aim 
is to return Mr S to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. This is 
complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investments. If Portal is unable to buy the investments, it should give them a nil value 
for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be 
applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the illiquid investments. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
fair value  step one
If Mr S had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the OPS. Portal 
must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr S lost as a result of transferring out of 
his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA 
in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr S has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal scheme retirement age of 60, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
Portal must compare the total value of the three PPs switched to Mr S SIPP with that of the 
benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr S PPs if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists FTSE UK Date of Date of my 8% simple per Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexinvestment final decision year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Portal totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint and direct Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman