DRN-3096956
The complaint
Mr A complains that Vitality Health Limited declined his private medical insurance claim. My 
references to Vitality include its agents.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr A bought a private medical insurance policy to cover himself and his 
wife, underwritten by Vitality.
The type of policy was full medical underwriting. That means when Mr A bought the policy 
he was asked questions about his existing medical conditions, Vitality then assessed what 
cover it was prepared to provide and applied any relevant medical condition exclusions.  
When Mr A bought the policy he told Vitality that he had astigmatism and Vitality didnt apply 
an exclusion for the condition.
In March 2020 Mr A claimed for pre-authorisation for a corneal transplant which he was due 
to have in June 2020. Vitality initially authorised the claim but a few days later it said it 
required further medical information before it could approve the claim. Mr A supplied further 
information and told Vitality the procedure was required to treat his astigmatism. 
Vitality declined the claim as it said the medical information showed the treatment was for 
Mr As keratoconus, which he hadnt declared during the policy sale. Vitality said if Mr A had 
disclosed his keratoconus it wouldnt have agreed to cover the condition and would have 
applied an exclusion on the policy for the condition from the start. Vitality said that meant 
there was no cover for Mr As claim. It accepted it had given poor service in how it dealt with 
the claim and offered Mr A £125 compensation in total for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr A complained to us. He said:
hed told Vitality about his eye problem when he bought the policy as astigmatism is 
another word for keratoconus so he should have been covered 
he wants a refund of the policy premiums hed paid from 2018 to 2020 and for Vitality 
to set up a policy with the information it now had and recalculate the premium 
he wants compensation for all his distress hed had about the claim not being 
covered which he would give to a named charity 
his specialist was so concerned the claim wasnt covered that he arranged to do the 
procedure through the NHS in October 2020. Without his specialists intervention he 
would have waited until Spring 2021 for the procedure.
Our investigator thought Vitality unfairly declined the claim. He thought Mr A had taken 
reasonable care in answering the medical questions asked during the policy sale. He 
recommended that, in addition to the £125 compensation Vitality had offered, it should pay 
Mr A another £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience and the NHS hospital 
cash benefit under the policy. But our investigator thought that now Mr A was aware of his 
keratoconus Vitality could reasonably add a policy exclusion for the condition at renewal. He 
didnt think Vitality needed to refund the policy premiums.
Mr A said that if hed known Vitality would apply an exclusion to the policy he would have 
stayed with his previous private health insurer and his claim would then have been covered.
Vitality disagreed with our investigators recommendation and wants an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary it said:
its policy sales representatives arent medical experts and it wasnt reasonable to 
expect them to ask Mr A questions about his type of astigmatism
contrary to what it had said, it did exclude cover for astigmatism if declared as a 
condition in its own right. As it hadnt referred Mr As declared astigmatism to its 
underwriter it hadnt added a backdated exclusion for that condition 
Mr A had been diagnosed with keratoconus in 2006. Vitality thought it unlikely that he 
wasnt aware of the diagnosis when he took out the policy. But it said even if Mr A 
wasnt aware of the diagnosis hed had keratoconus  for many years before his policy 
started so under the policy terms there was no cover for the condition
Mr A hadnt renewed his policy in December 2020.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Under CIDRA if an insurer believes the consumers qualifying misrepresentation to be 
careless it can add an exclusion to the policy (if thats what it would have done) from the 
point of misrepresentation, then assess any claim in line with the added exclusion. If an 
insurer believes the consumers qualifying misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless it 
can avoid the policy and keep the premiums.
Vitality told Mr A that it would have added an exclusion for keratoconus from the start of the 
policy if hed told it about the condition. So its treated Mr A as making a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation.Ive listened to the policy sales call. Vitality asked Mr A questions about his health which 
included whether Mr A had been diagnosed with Any eye, ear or speech disorders?
I think thats a clear question and Mr A said hed been diagnosed with an astigmatism and 
had special contact lenses from a named specialist eye hospital. Vitalitys sales 
representative said that was fine and proceeded with the rest of the application with no 
further questions about the astigmatism.
Vitality says its not reasonable to expect its sales representative to have the medical 
knowledge to know there are different types of astigmatism so it wasnt required to ask Mr A 
further questions around that. It says it was for Mr A to tell it hed been diagnosed with the 
more serious progressive condition of keratoconus, which results in irregular astigmatism.
Even if I thought Vitality was correct to say it wasnt required to ask Mr A further questions 
about his astigmatism, the issue for me to decide is whether, given his knowledge, Mr A took 
reasonable care in answering the question.
Mr A told us he believed by declaring his astigmatism hed told Vitality about his eye 
condition. Ive considered whether the medical evidence shows that Mr A was aware of his 
keratoconus diagnosis as a separate condition from his astigmatism.
Vitality contacted Mr As specialist doctor to ask if Mr A had been diagnosed with 
keratoconus and if so on what date. The specialist replied that Mr A had been diagnosed 
with keratoconus in September 2006. However, that question didnt clarify whether Mr A was 
aware hed been specifically diagnosed with keratoconus.
Mr As GPs referral letter to the specialist in May 2018, a few months before Mr A bought 
the policy, says He suffers from astigmatism and his condition has deteriorated. From the 
referral letter I think Mr A could reasonably believe hed been referred for his astigmatism. 
The medical evidence Ive seen isnt enough for me to conclude that Mr A knew he had 
keratoconus, rather than an advanced case of astigmatism. 
On the available medical evidence Im not persuaded that Mr A made a careless 
misrepresentation, as Vitality suggests. From the evidence I think Mr A took reasonable care 
in answering the question he was asked. In effect that means I think he made no 
misrepresentation so Vitality adding a backdated exclusion for keratoconus and using that to 
decline his claim was unfair and not in line with CIDRA.
I note Vitality says it should have added an exclusion for astigmatism from the start of the 
policy. But it didnt do so and as Mr A declared his astigmatism I dont think Vitality could 
have fairly added that backdated exclusion to decline the claim.
The effect of Vitality unfairly declining the claim meant Mr A didnt have the treatment he 
required privately. Fortunately he was able to be treated by the same specialist on the NHS 
although Vitalitys decline meant Mr As treatment was delayed from June 2020 until 
October 2020. Ive no medical evidence that the three months delay made Mr As condition 
substantively worse but Mr A was understandably distressed and inconvenienced by the 
whole situation.
Vitality had already offered Mr A compensation of £25 and then another £100 for his distress 
and inconvenience due to its change of mind about covering the claim and delaying until 
October 2020 to decline the claim. Our investigator recommended Vitality pay a further £150 
compensation for Mr As distress and inconvenience which means total compensation of 
£275. On the information I have I think thats a reasonable amount to compensate Mr A for 
his distress and inconvenience due to Vitalitys decline of the claim.As Mr A received treatment under the NHS, rather than private treatment, for a procedure 
which should have been fairly covered by the policy I also think its reasonable for Vitality to 
pay Mr A the NHS hospital cash benefit for the treatment. Mr As procedure was carried out 
in a day with no overnight stay and that benefit is provided by the policy for:
eligible in-patient treatment that you choose to have as a non-paying NHS patient 
even though you could have had the treatment in a private facility
eligible day-patient treatment that you choose to have as a non-paying NHS patient 
even though you could have had the treatment in a private facility.
Our investigator said Vitality could add an exclusion for keratoconus at the policy renewal. 
As Vitality has told us Mr A didnt renew his policy with it in December 2020 thats no longer 
relevant.
Mr A says if hed known Vitality would have added an exclusion to his policy he would have 
stayed with his previous insurer and that policy would have covered his treatment. I havent 
seen the previous policy to know if it would have covered the treatment. Ive explained above 
why I think Vitality should have fairly covered the claim under this policy and asked Vitality to 
take actions which I think reasonably puts things right.
Theres no basis for me to say Vitality must refund the policy premiums Mr A paid. He still 
had the benefit of having this policy for other matters even if he didnt make a claim on the 
policy.
Putting things right
Vitality must pay Mr A a further £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience in 
addition to the £125 its already offered, plus the NHS hospital cash benefit under the policy.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to:
pay Mr A compensation of £150 in addition to the £125 its already offered him (which 
it should also pay to Mr A if its not already done) for his distress and inconvenience 
due to the decline of the claim, and
pay Mr A the NHS hospital cash benefit under the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman