DRN-2425798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires 
(BM) made a payment to their mortgage account following a remediation exercise, rather 
than sending the money to them to spend as they liked.
What happened
On 9 May 2019 BM wrote to Mr and Mrs K to explain that it had reviewed their account and 
noticed it had mis-calculated their monthly payments at times. It said it had made a payment 
of £5,408.33 to the mortgage account, which included £154.77 compensatory interest.
It said Mr and Mrs K could have the £154.77 paid directly to them, and if they wanted to do 
so then they needed to contact BM to request it.
Mr and Mrs K said they wanted the full amount of £5,408.33 paid directly to them, rather 
than to their mortgage account.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this complaint seems to be a fundamental misunderstanding of what the 
remediation exercise was.
BM had been undercharging Mr and Mrs K on their mortgage payments since 2004. So, for 
example, if Mr and Mrs K should have been paying £200 a month, BM had only been 
charging them £190 a month. This meant Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage balance was higher than 
it should have been. But equally that meant Mr and Mrs K had more money in their pocket 
each month as they had that extra amount that they should have been paying to their 
mortgage. There were a few short periods of overpayments, but these were relatively small 
and short-lived. The underpayments vastly exceeded the overpayments.
If nothing had gone wrong Mr and Mrs K would have been paying more every month to their 
mortgage and their mortgage balance would have been correct. To put things right BM made 
a payment to their mortgage to reduce it to the level it would have been at, at that time, if the 
correct payments had been made. But it didnt ask Mr and Mrs K to make up those extra 
amounts.
Mr and Mrs K have said, I quote:
DONT UNDERSTAND OR AGREE WITH THE WORDS THAT I HAVE NOT BEEN 
OUT OF POCKET AS THE OVERCHARGE WAS A DEFININATE MONTHLY 
PAYMENT THAT WAS TAKEN BY DIRECT DEBIT FROM MY ACCOUNT ON TOP  
OF WHAT WAS CONTRACTUALLY DUE WITHOUT PERMISSION SO INDEED 
OVER THE TIME I WAS MOST DEFINATELY OUT OF POCKET TO THE TUNE OF 
5-6K !!!!
THE INSULT STILL IS ONGOING AS I AM STILL VERY MUCH OUT OF POCKET 
ON A CASHFLOW BASIS EVEN TODAY !!!!!
But (apart from the small amount for a very brief period) Mr and Mrs K have been 
underpaying. The money that was taken from their account by direct debit was less than it 
should have been; no money was taken on top. So, any cashflow issues Mr and Mrs K have 
had werent due to BMs error, as BMs error left them with more money in their pocket each 
month than they should have had.
So, rather than being £5,000-£6,000 out of pocket as theyve said, in fact, Mr and Mrs K are 
better off as a result of this mistake as theyve now got the benefit of a lower mortgage 
balance, without having made the payments to achieve that. If this mistake hadnt been 
made, Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage balance would be the same as it is now, but they would 
have had to have paid out thousands of pounds more over the life of this mortgage to 
achieve that.
For example, between late 2012 and early 2015 Mr and Mrs K should have been paying 
£1,083.12 a month but they only paid £1,035.84 a month; so, every month Mr and Mrs K 
were £47.28 better off due to the mistake.
BM cant pay the £5,253.56 to Mr and Mrs K as its not payments theyve made to the 
mortgage; Mr and Mrs K have been underpaying not overpaying. Rather than thinking of it 
as a payment thats been made by BM, Mr and Mrs K need to think of it as an account 
amendment to change their mortgage balance to the correct (lower) amount that it should 
have been. The only amount that was available to Mr and Mrs K to receive as a cash 
payment was the £154.77 interest.
I hope my explanation has helped Mr and Mrs Ks understanding of the situation so they can 
be reassured that theyve not lost out financially due to errors on their mortgage account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman