DRN-3956026
The complaint
Mr Ls representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea 
Building Society, referred to as CBS or the business. 
In short, the CMC questions why, in the absence of any paperwork, Mr L was advised to 
invest (£14,000) in risk-based bonds in 2008, particularly as hed suffered a stroke sometime 
earlier. 
What happened
In 2008, Mr L was advised to invest £7,000 in two With-Profits Inflation Protected 
Guaranteed bonds (the bonds) totalling £14,000. In January 2018, he surrendered the 
bonds  he received £9,892 from the first bond, and £9,703 from the second bond. In July 
2021, after speaking to a CMC, he complained to the business.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she said:
Due to the passage of time, theres very limited information about the sale of the 
bonds, but thats not something she can blame the business for. 
Theres no evidence relating to Mr Ls knowledge, experience, and financial situation, 
so she cant assess the suitability.  
Based on the available evidence it seems Mr L was sold two bonds in 2008. 
A fund fact sheet for the bonds states:
Our With-Profit Inflation Protected Guarantee Fund offers the potential for returns 
that are higher than those received from a bank or building society average savings 
account. Although the Fund has no fixed term, you should be prepared to invest for 
at least 5 to 10 years. The value of a with-profits investment can move up and down 
which means you may get back less than you put in. The Fund guarantees the return 
of your original investment adjusted for inflation if you fully switch or encash your 
investment in the Fund on or after the fifth anniversary. Any partial withdrawals or 
switches will reduce the guaranteed amount in proportion to the number of units 
cancelled.
The CMC says that a comparison of the 50/50 benchmark shows the level of loss Mr 
L has suffered. But the 50/50 benchmark is used by our service to calculate 
compensation for low-risk investors. And investing in the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index, albeit in part, comes with more risk than 
investing in the bonds which is suitable for investors who want to protect their money 
with a potential to get higher returns than bank or building societies.
Given the 2008 global financial crisis, it wasnt unusual for investors to adopt a 
cautious approach. Based on what the CMC says, it seems Mr L suffered a stroke in 
early 2003, that led to other issues (potentially) effecting his ability to work and make 
up any losses. 
Although there was nothing to suggest that Mr L was in bad health at the time, the 
bonds  which guaranteed an inflation protected return if surrendered after a 
minimum period  were unlikely to be unsuitable even if he was.  
Theres no evidence of Mr Ls attitude to risk or objectives so she cant say the 
recommendation was unsuitable.   
Without the benefit of hindsight, she cant say that Mr L was willing to take more risk 
than he did, therefore it isnt fair to ask the business to pay compensation for losses 
claimed on this basis.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theres been some correspondence between the CMC and the investigator, but in summary, 
it said:
The investment was surrendered in 2018. The fact that the business hasnt kept 
records is not an issue for Mr L, its an issue for the business. Ordinarily, firms are 
required to keep records no longer than six years after the investment ceased or is 
surrendered. 
The investigator cant just look at the product documentation and say it was suitable 
when theres no evidence regarding the clients background, circumstances, and 
understanding of financial matters. 
The investigator has assumed that Mr L was in a position to invest and assumed he 
understood everything. 
Mr L was advised to invest in medium risk bonds, these werent suitable for him. Its 
not sure on what basis the investigator thinks they were. 
The current fund fact sheet shows that 75% of the fund is invested in equities.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
The bonds arent medium risk investments as they guaranteed a return of the capital. 
She confirmed that the parties dont have Mr Ls objectives from the point of sale. 
The business wasnt obliged to retain documents despite the investment ending in 
2018. 
The risks were higher if the bond was surrendered in the first five years. 
Mr L didnt surrender the bonds until 2018. 
The CMC confirmed also the following points:
It doesnt have Mr Ls objectives, so cant say the advice to invest in these products 
was good. 
Mr L cant be penalised for CBSs data retention policy. 
The bonds were higher risk if surrendered early but retaining them didnt make them 
suitable. 
The bonds were surrendered in 2018. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I cant safely say 
that the recommendation to invest in the bonds was unsuitable. In other words, I dont have 
the evidence to enable me to reach this conclusion.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mr L wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required to do in 
order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean 
Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, 
regulation and best industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Given the passage of time, Im not surprised that CBS is unable to provide more information 
about the point of sale. Financial businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely 
so I cant blame CBS for not being able to provide more information about the sale of bonds 
that took place over 15 years ago and surrendered over two/three years ago.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. In other words, I dont have the evidence to conclude  on 
a balance of probabilities  that the advice was unsuitable. In this instance, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld just because theres no further information  evidently there is 
another side to his sale, but I dont know what it is.   
Despite what the CMC says about Mr Ls previous health, Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
he shouldnt have been advised to invest in 2008, five years after he had a stroke. Even if Mr 
L wasnt in the best of health, I dont think a capital protected investment (subject to 
conditions) was unsuitable or was likely to have involved more risk than he was willing to 
take. I note Mr L maintained the bonds for 10 years and only complained after speaking to a 
CMC. 
The above notwithstanding, I note theres no evidence of Mr Ls attitude to risk or objectives 
so I cant safely say that the bonds were too risky for him or that his objectives werent met 
as the CMC would like me to  just as I cant say, based on the available evidence, the 
recommendation was suitable. 
I also cant say that Mr L wasnt provided with the relevant documentation or that the risks 
werent explained to him (notwithstanding his health), so it would be unfair to uphold the 
complaint on that basis, based on an incomplete picture of events.   
I note the CMC says that the current fund fact sheet for the With-Profits fund show that 75% 
of it is invested in equities. But I cant uphold the complaint on the basis of the current fund 
fact sheet, relating to a product that was sold 15 years ago and guaranteed to at least return 
the capital, providing the investment was in place for five years.  
Despite what the CMC says, I dont think theres any dispute that the business has a duty to 
know its customer and make recommendations that are suitable. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I simply cant conclude that the business hasnt fulfilled these obligations.    
Despite what the CMC says, on balance I cant say that alternative investments werent 
considered. In other words, I think its more likely (than not) alternatives were considered, and Mr L probably chose to invest in the bonds. Theres no suggestion that Mr L was made 
to do anything that he didnt want to do. 
I should also point out that our service doesnt generally consider complaints about 
investment performance alone, which can be dependent on a number of factors  such as 
what the stockmarket did for example  which are outside the control of the business. Based 
on what the CMC says, it seems the investment didnt do as well as Mr L had hoped, but in 
the circumstances thats not something I can blame the business for.
Its only with the benefit of hindsight the CMC is able to say that other investments mightve 
performed better, but that doesnt mean the recommendation by CBS at the time was 
unsuitable. 
I also dont think comparing the performance of the bonds to the 50/50 benchmark is 
necessarily indicative of the loss suffered as suggested by the CMC, because Im unable to 
say that the business has done anything wrong.  
I note the CMC says that having been sold the bonds, Mr L was compelled to keep them, 
but I dont agree that he was. Its likely that Mr L chose to keep the bonds for a period of 10 
years and did so of his own volition. Notwithstanding the consequences of surrendering the 
bonds early, Im mindful that the bonds didnt have a fixed term, therefore it was up to Mr L 
how long he maintained them. 
I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman