The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused unnecessary delays to their 
porting application, leaving them no option other than to apply to another lender. They paid 
an early repayment charge (ERC) of about £3,000 to Barclays, which they'd like refunded. 
They also spent about £675 on surveys.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied to port their mortgage in February 2019. Barclays accepted their 
application and ordered a valuation. The valuer had concerns about the property and 
recommended further reports. Mr and Mrs R provided two reports. They say Barclays then 
asked for a further report and quotes for remedial work. 
Mr and Mrs R say they saw no end to this process and felt they had to go to another 
provider, or risk losing their sale and purchase. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
information requested by Barclays wasnt unnecessary or significantly delayed. He didnt 
recommend that Barclays refund the ERC. The investigator said while Barclays could have 
been more pro-active at times, its offer of £250 compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. They said theyd have been happy to pay for all of the reports at 
once to quicken the process  which would still have cost less than the ERC  but werent 
offered the option. Mrs R said even if Barclays didn't then port their mortgage, the reports 
would have been useful when applying to another lender. Mrs R said Barclays process was 
impractical, and they had to change lenders or lose the property. She also said that Barclays 
final response letter says it doesnt lend where the property needs a new roof  which 
Barclays knew was the case with their property in March.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with Barclays. They wanted to move house and applied to 
port their mortgage. Their application was approved in late February and Barclays arranged 
for a valuation.
A mortgage valuation was carried out on behalf of Barclays on 6 March 2019. This raised 
concerns, including about structural movement, damp, asbestos and the need for a complete 
new roof. It said two specialist reports would be needed for mortgage purposes, a structural 
report and a timber and damp report, and these were required before a valuation could be 
DRN-1308747completed. The valuation report valued the property at zero. Barclays declined Mr and Mrs 
R's mortgage application.
Barclays didnt require Mr and Mrs R to provide a structural engineers report  although it 
was clear that it wouldnt change its decision to not to lend without it. 
Mr and Mrs R provided a structural engineers report to Barclays on 22 March 2019. 
Barclays noted the valuers had also asked for a timber and damp report, but sent the 
structural report to the valuers for comment on 25 March. 
On 28 March 2019 the valuers said they still needed a damp and timber report to re-assess 
the property. Barclays passed this onto Mr and Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R made a new application on 4 April, with the purchase price reduced by £7,500. 
Mr and Mrs R provided a timber and damp report to Barclays on 4 April. After reviewing the 
specialist reports, the valuers said a drainage report was needed  which was recommended 
by the structural engineers report  plus quotes for the remedial work needed. Barclays told 
Mr and Mrs R this on 13 April 2019.
At this point, Mr and Mrs R decided they had to apply elsewhere, due to delays and repeated 
requests for reports. 
I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably here. The mortgage valuation said specialist 
reports were needed for it to complete the valuation. Barclays appointed a firm of surveyors 
to carry out the valuation, and I think it was entitled to rely on its recommendations.
The mortgage valuation said a structural engineers report and a timber and damp report 
were needed to complete the valuation. So Mr and Mrs R were aware of this in early March. 
The timber and damp report wasnt provided to Barclays until early April 2019.  
Once Barclays received both reports, its valuers reviewed them without any significant delay. 
The valuers asked for a drainage report  as recommended in the structural engineers 
report. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask for a report recommended by the 
structural engineer. And I dont think Barclays could have known at the outset this would be 
needed.
I understand why Mr and Mrs R decided to apply elsewhere. There was no guarantee the 
valuers would re-assess the property value positively. And theyve said they were worried 
about further delays. But I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to refund the ERC.
I don't know if Barclays would have changed its decision not to lend if the further report had 
been provided. When they brought the complaint to us, Mr and Mrs R say they were told the 
structural survey was just a recommendation and the zero value of the property would 
remain until any required works were carried out. So I dont think Barclays gave any 
assurances that it would change its decision not to lend. And I note that Mr and Mrs R say 
they provided the surveys to their new lender, and negotiated a reduced purchase price. So 
they benefited from the specialist reports.
Barclays offered compensation of £250 for the upset and trouble caused by its response to 
Mr and Mrs R when they raised concerns. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I think Barclays Bank UK PLC's 
response to Mr and Mrs R's complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman