DRN-1514578
 
The complaint
Mr P has membership of a group, private medical insurance policy with                           
BUPA Insurance Limited and complains about how it handled his claim.      
What happened
In early July 2019, a consultant diagnosed Mr P with two conditions, one relating to his neck 
and the other relating to his left shoulder. In late July 2019, Mr P asked BUPA to authorise 
additional physiotherapy and osteopathy. 
BUPA proceeded initially on the basis that Mr P had one condition and said that it wouldnt 
authorise osteopathy and physiotherapy for the same condition. It asked Mr P to provide 
further written reports from his consultant and therapists. Mr P asked for those reports but 
the following day, BUPA said that it didnt need them. On 6 August 2019, BUPA asked for 
the consultants report Mr P already had and subsequently authorised the treatments.
On 13 August 2019, BUPA wrote to Mr P and said that it didnt do enough to establish 
whether he had one or two conditions. It said that it wasnt until 6 August 2019, that it asked 
Mr P to send it a letter from his consultant which showed that there were two separate 
diagnoses. After it had received that letter, it authorised the two therapies. 
BUPA said that it had asked Mr P to do too much and, as he was attending a BUPA centre, 
it would have been sensible for it to contact the healthcare providers on Mr Ps behalf. BUPA 
apologised to Mr P and offered him compensation of £50, which it later increased to £100.
Mr P didnt think that BUPAs offer of compensation was enough. He says that hes spent a 
considerable amount of time on this matter in talking to BUPA on the phone, speaking to his 
three healthcare providers, requesting reports which werent needed, reading the terms of 
his membership and pursuing the matter. He says that he suffered distress in not getting the 
treatments he needed. Mr P wants BUPA to prevent this happening again. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that BUPA should pay Mr P 
an additional £50, so total compensation of £150. 
Mr P agreed with the investigators view, but BUPA didnt. It said, in summary:
As compensation is subjective, its not fair to say that it hadnt acted fairly because 
compensation didnt match the impact of the issue.
It didnt check Mr Ps situation fully, as it didnt ask him for a copy of the relevant 
medical report at the earliest opportunity. There was a short delay in its clinicians 
considering the report. 
It needed further clinical rationale to support its decision about treatment.
If the osteopaths first progress report had mentioned that Mr P has two separate 
conditions, there wouldnt have been an issue. 
Its not unreasonable for it to ask for information to support a claim. 
Its failing was in not asking for the consultants report, which caused a short delay 
from 30 July 2019 to 6 August 2019. After that, it acted promptly. 
The investigator considered what BUPA said but didnt change his view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mr P says that he wants BUPA to prevent this happening again. This service cant direct 
BUPA generally in relation to how it conducts its business, but we can look at what 
happened in Mr Ps case. 
I agree that BUPA needs clinical evidence to support its decision making. Its error here was 
not to ask Mr P for the consultants report he had at the earliest opportunity. Its common 
ground that BUPA initially proceeded on the mistaken basis that Mr P had one condition, not 
two conditions. The remaining issue for me to decide is the fair level of compensation for 
that. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I agree with the investigator that BUPA should pay Mr P 
additional compensation of £50, which brings the total compensation to £150. I say that 
because BUPAs mistake in not asking initially for Mr Ps consultants report which contains 
the diagnoses meant that Mr P suffered distress and inconvenience. 
Mr P says that he was distressed not to get the treatments he needed to manage his 
conditions. Its clear that there was a short delay in BUPA authorising the treatments. I 
accept that Mr P suffered distress because of that. 
In relation to Mr Ps inconvenience, BUPAs error meant that he spent more time than he 
otherwise would have spent discussing this matter with BUPA and the individuals who were 
treating him. He asked for reports which werent in fact required. In its final response to Mr P, 
BUPA said that it agreed that it asked him to do too much. Mr P also spent time reading the 
membership rules to try to understand and counter what BUPA told him.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience is somewhat subjective. But where we think 
that an insurers offer hasnt fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
error, its reasonable to conclude that it hasnt acted entirely fairly. 
Putting things right
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive set out above, I think that BUPA should pay 
Mr P compensation of £50 in addition to the £100 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I now require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr P compensation of £50 in relation to his distress and inconvenience in addition to the 
£100 it has already paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman