DRN-3318830
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to notify him of the 
increased interest rate on his overdraft, to 39.9%, by text message in advance of it 
happening.
Background
In 2019, Nationwide wrote to Mr S and told him that the way it was charging for overdrafts 
was changing from November 2019. There would no longer be a distinction between 
arranged and unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to his overdraft 
would be 39.9%. Mr S was unhappy that he wasnt notified of the change by text message in 
advance of it happening. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said it was satisfied that Mr S was provided with 
an appropriate notification of the upcoming change in advance of them happening and so he 
wasnt treated unfairly. Mr S remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr S may unhappy with what hes described as a dramatic increase in Nationwides 
overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Nationwides charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it implemented these changes unfairly.      
Mr S says that the changes were implemented unfairly here as he wasnt notified of the 
changes by text message. Ive thought about what Mr S has said. 
It isnt in dispute that Nationwide sent the required notifications by post in 2019. The 
notification appears to have been correctly addressed using Mr S correct address details. 
So while its possible Mr S may not have received the notifications, Nationwide did what it 
was required to in respect of this. 
I know that Mr S is unhappy these communications were sent to him by post rather than text 
message. But while certain documents such as statement alerts and transaction details can 
be sent be text message, it is good practice for firms to send formal correspondence such as 
notice of a variation in the terms of an account by post. Equally, given the amount of 
information normally contained in document such as a notice of variation I cant see how it 
would even be practical to send it by text message.
I know Mr S only started receiving text alerts with the new charges from December 2019. But 
this was when Mr S first started accruing these charges. And this is why hes had the alerts 
that he has had since  not because Nationwide failed to send previous text messages it to 
ought to have sent. So I dont think that Nationwide acted unfairly in this regard, or most 
crucially that it failed to do something it was required to do.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Nationwide implemented these 
overdraft changes in a way that treated Mr S unfairly. And as the terms and conditions 
permitted Nationwide to make these changes in the first place, it follows that Im not 
upholding Mr S complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman