DRN-3984702
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt refund a 
payment he made using his charge card.
What happened
On 16 August 2022 Mr B, using his Amex charge card, purchased a holiday package, 
including flights and hotel, for him and another person. The holiday and travel dates were 21 
to 31 August 2022. He booked this holiday with a supplier/merchant  who I will refer to as 
the Company. The total cost charged to Mr Bs charge card was approximately £2,121.
Mr B said that he disputed the transaction for the holiday package because the services 
weren't provided as advertised. He said that the holiday was advertised with spa facilities, 
but this wasnt available at the hotel, and he wasnt informed of this at the time of booking. 
Mr B also said that they werent willing to walk to another hotel, which was the alternative 
provided. So, Mr B raised a chargeback dispute with Amex and he said he provided them 
with more than sufficient evidence. He said that Amex agreed with him and reversed the 
charge during his communications via the app, leading him, as he said, to believe that they 
had investigated the dispute and ruled in his favour. The chargeback was processed on 25 
August 2022. And, as Mr B believed that the chargeback was resolved in his favour, he and 
his travel companion ended up spending more money during the holiday. Mr B said this 
reversal of the chargeback happened more than once.
He said he asked Amex on numerous occasions about a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). And he said that eventually they told him that this 
doesn't apply as he has a charge card. Mr B said he accepts this but feels that he shouldve 
been told about this much earlier in the process. Mr B said that he is unhappy because 
Amex caused him a lot of stress, by asking him to provide numerous pieces of evidence that 
he already provided. He said he spent weeks communicating with Amex. He also said that 
during the entire process Amex were not listening to him, and that the customer service, as 
well as the communication, was very bad. He said all of this caused him distress and 
inconvenience, so he thinks that Amex should pay him compensation. 
In December 2022, Amex wrote to Mr B and said that, when he contacted their online chat 
team in August 2022 to request a dispute set up, they applied a credit of around £2,121 to 
his account. But they said that he needed to keep in mind that, if the merchant does later 
send them documentation challenging this chargeback, they may reverse the credit applied. 
They said that later, on 7 September 2022, they sent Mr B a letter by post advising him that 
the merchant had responded and confirmed that the services were provided and that the 
booking was non-refundable. And, as they had not received any sufficient evidence to 
support the dispute, they reversed the credit previously applied and reinstated the charge to 
the account.
In this correspondence they also explained that, as the merchant provided all the facilities 
albeit partially at a neighbouring hotel, they couldnt quantify the amount up for dispute and, 
they said, they cant dispute the full amount due to the fact the service was used. So, they 
said they dont have any chargeback rights against the merchant. However, they said that 
during their investigation, when it was clear they were unable to assist any further with the 
dispute, they said they incorrectly offered Mr B an option to raise a Section 75 claim. A few 
days later they contacted Mr B to advise that, as he holds a charge card, they cant consider 
a Section 75 claim. So, this was offered in error. They also said that, although their disputes 
team followed the correct process and his dispute was handled correctly, they could see that 
Mr B felt frustrated and disappointed that there has been a delay while he was awaiting 
clarification on the outcome. So, they partially upheld his complaint and applied £50 credit to 
his account.
Mr B was not happy with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that, 
when Amex raised the chargeback, the merchant challenged it and said that spa facilities 
were still available at another hotel nearby. And, as Mr B stayed at the hotel for the duration 
of the holiday, the investigator didnt think that a chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. He also didnt think that Amex need to provide any more compensation, other 
then what has already been given, for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me, reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
This decision is not about the Company who isnt a financial service provider for the 
transaction in question and so doesnt fall within this services remit. So, in this decision Im 
only considering the question of whether Amex have treated Mr B fairly. 
As Mr B used his Amex charge card to book the holiday with the Company, Amex had one 
option to pursue a refund for this  the chargeback option. 
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. The chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment 
disputes between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for Amex to 
pursue a chargeback, as long as it was possible to do so (within the scheme rules and 
criteria) and provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. This would include cases 
where goods or services arent supplied.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund as the supplier/merchant can put forward a 
defence to the chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, Amex could pursue the 
chargeback further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome. 
My role in such cases is not to second-guess the schemes arbitration decision or the schemes rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (in this case, Amex) acted fairly 
and reasonably when presenting, or choosing not to present, and when choosing whether to 
continue with the chargeback process on behalf of their cardholder (in this case, Mr B).
As I said, I would consider it good practice for Amex to pursue a chargeback, bearing in 
mind the schemes rules and criteria, and whether theres a reasonable prospect of success. 
Amex did raise a chargeback, but the Company responded and confirmed that the services 
were provided and that the booking was non-refundable. The Company also said that the 
facilities (including the spa) were provided, albeit partially at a neighbouring hotel. So, 
considering that one of the ways a merchant can challenge a dispute under the chargeback 
reason  not as described or defective  is by providing a replacement service, Im satisfied 
that they didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing the chargeback any further than 
they did. This is because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success as a 
replacement service, free of charge, was available to Mr B at a neighbouring hotel.    
Mr B has also told us that his complaint isn't so much about the chargeback and wanting the 
funds refunded, but it is more about how he was misled and provided incorrect information 
by Amex. He said he was led to believe that the chargeback was successful, and the case 
was closed. He said this caused him and his travel companion to spend more money during 
the holiday. So, Ive considered what Mr B has told us.
First, its important to explain that in this decision, I can only consider the impact this 
situation had on Mr B, so I cant consider the impact this had on the other person that 
travelled with him. I can see that Mr Bs holiday was to last from 21 August 2022 to 31 
August 2022. On 25 August 2022, Amex raised the chargeback, and I can see that he was 
informed that he had 10 working days from that date to share any evidence with the Amex 
team, so that they can start the investigation. I know Mr B feels that Amex was unclear, by 
providing him different information at multiple stages of the process and closing the case 
which, he said, suggested to him that it was resolved and thus he can spend more money on 
his holiday. But I can see that on the Amex internal system the case status did indicate that 
he should refer to the communication that Amex sent him. And all the disputes letters and 
emails provided to him by Amex clearly state that if the merchant responds to the 
chargeback, the credit to his account may be reversed. I can also see that some of the 
communications sent to him had an estimated resolution date that was more than 10 days 
after he raised his chargeback. So I think from all the above, Mr B should reasonably have 
been aware that the credit to his account may be reversed.
I know that Mr B feels that Amex took too long to deal with the dispute and has asked for a 
lot of information from him. And I did take into consideration that Amex did provide incorrect 
information to Mr B when they incorrectly told him that he had Section 75 rights. Also, I know 
that there were some delays while he was awaiting clarification of the outcome of his 
dispute. But they applied £50 credit to his account. So I think, considering the 
circumstances, this was a fair amount of compensation and I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I sympathise with Mr B for the difficulties that he is experiencing but, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Amex has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with his chargeback request. So, its not fair or reasonable for me to require 
Amex to take any further action in response to Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman