DRN-1549103
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs D a loan, in a branch meeting, in 2000. At the same time, it sold 
them a PPI policy, the cost of which was added to the loan and attracted interest. The PPI 
covered Mr D if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also included life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, so 
the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say they dont recall Nationwide discussing PPI with them and that they didnt 
know it had been added to their loan. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a copy of their 
loan application. I think thats understandable considering how long ago the sale took place. 
That said, Nationwides provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds loan agreement it issued 
following their application. It shows the PPI was set out as Optional and explained that 
cover included disability, unemployment and life cover. Mr and Mrs D signed the agreement, 
indicating they were happy with it.
I cant say for sure what happened. But, overall, I think Mr and Mrs D ought to have known 
they were being sold optional PPI. And I think they went ahead with it on that basis.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. But it still needed to provide 
enough information so that Mr and Mrs D could make an informed choice about whether to 
go ahead with the PPI.
I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D. But, if there were 
problems with the sale, I dont believe better information would have made a difference to 
their decision to take the PPI. I say that because:  
It seems Mr D was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that hed have been affected 
by anything the PPI excluded or limited cover for.The loan agreement Mr and Mrs D signed made it clear the PPI brought with it extra 
costs and set out what the costs were  both with and without interest.
Mr D was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer. But 
the PPI would have paid out on top of that. And until the end of the loan if he was off 
work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if he became unemployed.
Mrs L could have got quite a lot more back from the PPI in claims than it cost. 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs D would have seen it as worth having.
Some single premium PPI policies didnt give a proportional refund of the premium if 
the loan was repaid early, and that would have made cancelling it more expensive 
than if it did. But it seems this policy would, in any case, have provided a proportional 
refund.
 
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs D have lost out because of how Nationwide sold them the 
PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman