DRN-2361609
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Independent Choice 
to transfer her personal pension from MetLife to Prudential. Mrs H also complains about 
the delay setting up her policy with the pension provider, which caused her to miss out on 
the opportunity to add regular contributions into her plan for a number of months.
Further, Mrs H complains that she now has two policies instead one and that she believed 
that the transfer was life for like, when it wasnt. 
What happened
Both Mrs H and her husband received pensions advice from Independent Choice in 2016.
In May 2018, at Independent Choices instigation, Mr and Mrs H attended a meeting with it to 
review their pensions. Mrs H was advised to transfer her pension away from MetLife to 
Prudential and led to believe there would be higher returns if she did so.
Mrs H said she understood that if she proceeded with the transfer it would be on a like for 
like basis, and that she would continue to make monthly contributions by direct debit of 
£312.50 per month. The reason given by the adviser for the transfer, was that the returns 
were expected to be higher with Prudential.
Both Mr and Mrs H complained to this service about the advice they received from 
Independent Choice. I am dealing with Mrs Hs complaint here, her husband Mr H is acting 
as her representative. His complaint about this is being dealt with separately by this 
service. Mrs H also complained to our service, with Independent Choices assistance, 
about delays caused by Prudential. This complaint has already been considered 
separately. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint against Independent Choice and 
recommended it was upheld.
Mrs H agreed with our investigators recommendation. Independent Choice did not agree. 
It said in summary:
Mrs Hs complaint should be dismissed as the proper complaints procedure had 
not been followed. Her complaint was initially made against Prudential and the 
redress sought was for Prudential to pay the missed contributions. Independent 
Choice was not given an opportunity to resolve the complaint with Mrs H. Mrs H 
complained to this service in April 2019 and Independent Choice was not told 
about the complaint against it until January 2020.
The advice was suitable because Mrs H is in a better financial situation now than 
she would have been if she stayed with MetLife, so the advice was justified.
Although she had lost the secure capital protection the performance of the MetLife 
plan shows that this guarantee would not have been invoked, so she has not 
actually lost out.
The adviser was suffering from chronic health conditions between January and 
December 2018, so he accepts his file was below standard.
If Mrs H had wanted to revert back to a single plan she was told how to do this in 
early 2019 and again in February 2020 and she did not take steps to rectify the 
situation.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint, we asked Independent Choice to provide its business file. The 
file has not been provided to date, despite numerous requests. Independent Choice has 
also not provided Mrs H with a final response on the issues raised. I am satisfied that this 
service can consider the complaint made against Independent Choice and that it has been 
given to the opportunity to resolve this complaint with Mrs H.
Prudential and MetLife have provided this service with information about Mrs Hs pension 
plans. From the information provided, our investigator carefully set out in his view a timeline 
of key events in relation to Mrs Hs complaint. To simplify matters, and because its relevant 
to this decision, Ive repeated that timeline here.
25 February 2016
Mrs Hs pension policy with MetLife is set up. An adviser fee of £896.11 was paid to 
Independent Choice.
May 2018
Meeting with Independent Choice, at its instigation, to discuss Mr and Mrs Hs pension.
18 August 2018
An application for policy ending 109 was received by Prudential, this was for Prudential to 
accept Mrs Hs regular contributions. Prudential sent Mrs H a letter to confirm the details.
23 August 2018
An application made in Mrs Hs name for policy ending 046 was received by Prudential, 
following which they sent Mrs H a letter to confirm the details.
24 August 2018
Mrs Hs plan with MetLife was surrendered.
29 August 2018
MetLife write to Prudential to confirm Mrs Hs transfer of £46,812.69.
6 September 2018
A transfer certificate was sent to Mrs H. An adviser fee of £1,170.31 was paid to 
Independent Choice for the set-up of plan ending 046. 
27 November 2018
Prudential send notice to Independent Choice that it will terminate the setting up of plan 
109 if the outstanding information is not received by 27 December 2018. [This information 
wasnt received and plan 109 wasnt set up.]December 2018
Mrs H received her yearly pensions statement. She noticed her pensions had not 
increased in value. Mr and Mrs H follow up on this. They discover that no direct debit 
payments had been taken by Prudential. Mr H queries this with independent Choice, who 
raise a complaint with Prudential.
10 January 2019
An application for policy ending 414 was set up for regular contributions into this plan.
28 January 2019
Prudential wrote to Independent Choice to ask for some further information to proceed 
with the set-up of plan ending 414. Prudential also asked Independent Choice to confirm 
the start date for the plan as they had 1 October as the date listed. Independent Choice 
confirmed the start date should be 1 January 2019, or if it that wasnt possible, the start 
date should be 1 February 2019.
Prudential confirmed the start date would be 1 January 2019 and asked for an outstanding 
document to be sent to them to finish setting up the plan.
30 January 2019
Independent Choice contacted Mrs H, providing her with the direct debit form to sign. She 
signed this, she said believing this would enable her to get her existing policy with 
Prudential set up correctly. She thought that her contributions would begin in February.
Independent Choice said that she could look into the issue of missing contributions at a 
later date, but the first priority would be to get the direct debits back on track.
1 February 2019
Prudential ask Independent Choice for the outstanding information again.
5 March 2019
Prudential had by then received all the information they needed to set up Mrs Hs plan. 
There is internal communication to confirm what the start date of the plan should be.
6 March 2019
Prudential confirmed with Independent Choice, who said that the start date of the plan 
should be 6 March 2019 and the first payments should be collected from April 2019. The 
plan was set up to first accept Mrs Hs regular contributions, now £312 per month, on 7 
March 2019.
Prudential said if the outstanding information had been correctly sent across, the start date 
of the investment would have been 26 February 2019. But Independent Choice said to 
keep the investment date as at 6 March 2019. 
Suitability of the advice and clear and fair information 
In 2016, Mrs H paid Independent Choice an advice fee when it assisted her to set up her 
MetLife personal pension plan. She then paid a further advice fee to set up the Prudential 
plan in 2018. From what Mrs Hs said, she wasnt looking to review her pension in 2018 or 
to move her pension away from MetLife. She ended up doing so because Independent 
Choice contacted her and recommended she transfer because of the higher returns. Her 
circumstances and objectives appeared not to have changed from 2016. She was still 
making contributions of £312.50 per month into the plan and wanted to continue to do so. Ive not seen any information to show that Independent Choice carried out a fact find or 
considered Mrs Hs particular circumstances when it advised her to transfer her pension to 
Prudential. Ive also not seen a suitability letter explaining why the transfer to Prudential 
was a suitable and appropriate recommendation in her particular circumstances. Mrs H 
doesnt recall being provided with written advice. I have seen a brief note comparing the 
higher returns in the Prudential scheme compared to those with MetLife. The information 
presented in this note is very limited and, in my view, provides insufficient information to 
enable a person to make an informed choice about their options.
Mrs H believed that the transfer was on a like-for-like basis. She does not remember being 
told that if she transferred to the new plan it would not offer the same capital protection 
option, which was guaranteed in her plan with MetLife. She was paying an additional 
amount for this protection. This guarantee attached to the MetLife plan has now been lost 
as a result of the transfer.
Like our investigator concluded, looking at the charging structure for the MetLife and 
Prudential plans, whilst in the short term the Prudential plan may have appeared to cost less, 
the charges wouldve likely evened out over time. So, the difference in plan charges likely 
wouldnt have been a reason to transfer. By paying the additional advice fee to transfer    
Mrs H has ended up paying more in advice fees.
I think Independent Choice has done something wrong here. It has not confirmed its advice 
in writing. It has not clearly set out its reasons for its recommendation to transfer, to enable 
Mrs H to make an informed choice about what was best for her and to consider if the advice 
was suitable, in her circumstances. I cant see that Mrs H was made aware of the guarantee 
she was giving up, if she transferred. Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly find that  
Mrs H was given suitable advice and enough clear and fair information to make an informed 
choice about how to proceed.
Regular contributions
Its unclear why Independent Choice didnt provide the information to set up of policy 046. 
The application for the policy was submitted in August 2018, the recommendation to 
transfer was made in May 2018 
Looking at the timeline, I agree with our investigator the delay in setting up the plan which 
regular contributions were to be paid into was mainly down to Independent Choice. Based 
on the records available, I think, regular contributions could have been paid into the 
Prudential plan from September 2018, (if plan 109 had been opened). As a result of 
Independent Choices delay, Mrs H wasnt able to make monthly regular contributions from 
September 2018 to April 2019.
Mrs H says she is not now able to pay over these missed payments as financially she cant 
afford to do so due to the implications of coronavirus on her finances.
I think Mrs H has suffered some trouble and upset here, as she has lost out on the 
potential investment growth on these contributions because of the delay. 
However, it would not be fair or reasonable to hold Independent Choice responsible for 
Mrs Hs current financial situation and I cant fairly require Independent Choice to pay 
these contributions in her place, as that would put her in a better position than she would 
have been in at the outset. This services role is to put the person back in the same 
position that they would have been in but for the error or omission, not in a better position.However, I do consider it would be appropriate for Independent Choice to pay Mrs H some 
redress for the trouble and upset it has caused her through possibly losing out on the 
investment growth and lost opportunity here. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing fair compensation, as Ive said my aim is to put Mrs H as close as possible
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
If Mrs H had been given suitable advice, I think she would not have transferred and would 
have remained invested with MetLife. Therefore, I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs H's circumstances and objectives at the time of 
advice in 2018.
To compensate Mrs H fairly Independent Choice should:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Independent Choice should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Independent Choice should pay into Mrs H's pension plan, to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Independent
Choices payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Independent Choice shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Independent Choice is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs H's pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Mrs H has lost the secure capital option guarantee on her plan with MetLife, Its not 
been possible to assess the value of the guarantees going forward. So, to put things 
right here, Independent Choice should make a lump sum payment of £500 direct to 
Mrs H for the loss of this guarantee and the peace of mind it would have given Mrs H 
in the future. Based on what Ive seen, I cant say whether the guarantee would or 
wouldnt have been invoked at a later date if Mrs H had remained in the MetLife plan. 
In any event, she has lost the peace of mind of the protection.
Mrs H lost the opportunity to make regular contributions into her plan from
September 2018 to April 2019, and for this, Independent Choice should make single 
a payment of £300 direct to Mrs H for the trouble and upset caused.
In addition, Independent Choice should pay Mrs H £200 direct for the trouble and 
upset caused by the unsuitable advice/and or lack of clear and fair information she 
received to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to proceed with 
the transfer.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs H in a clear, simple format.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Independent Choice consider that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. Independent Choice should also give Mrs 
H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
What should Independent Choice do? 
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
Prudential 
Pensionstill existsMetLife 
Retirement 
PortfolioDate of 
transfer 
from 
MetLifeDate of 
settlement 
with 
Prudentialnot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the investment to Mrs H should 
be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid to Mrs H so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Independent Choice total all 
those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
The advice to transfer from MetLife to Prudential was unsuitable and the delays to set up 
policy 414 were largely caused by Independent Choice.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding- compensation/compensation-investment-complaints.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and order Independent Choice to pay her fair compensation 
calculated as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman