DRN-2362946
The complaint
Mr J complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA):
wont replace his hot water cylinder under his home emergency insurance policy 
underwritten by IPA after it failed and he claimed under his policy; and
didnt compensate him properly as set out in the policy for a delay in its engineer 
attending his property. 
What happened
Mr J had an annual home emergency insurance policy underwritten by IPA, which he 
renewed in January 2020. In February 2020, a fault developed which meant he couldnt use 
the central heating and at the same time heat the hot water by gas without the overflow 
leaking. So he called on IPA under his policy.
IPA arranged for an engineer to attend. However, he didnt come within 24 hours of Mr Js 
phone call. So Mr J thought that under the policy terms IPA should have refunded the whole 
years policy premium of £119.40. Instead IPA offered Mr J a refund of £75.
The engineer found that the cause of the fault was that the pipe within the hot water cylinder 
carrying heating water from the boiler had split. He said this wasnt repairable and a new hot 
water cylinder, immersion pipe and fittings would be required. IPA said this wouldnt be 
covered under the policy and pointed to the following general exclusion contained in the 
policy terms:
1. The following are excluded from the insurance;
a) any leaking or dripping tap that requires re-washering or replacing, external overflows or 
replacement of cylinders, tanks, radiators and sanitary ware;
Mr J didnt think the wording of the policy and other documents was clear. He pointed to the 
following provisions in the documents sent to him at renewal which set out what was covered 
under the policy:
Repairing plumbing problems related to leaking pipes, blocked drains, water tanks, or
leaking radiators
We will pay a maximum of 1,500 including VAT for call out, labour, parts and
materials
It excludes flexible hoses, leaking washing appliances, external overflows, external
water supply pipes, re washering or replacing dripping or leaking taps, and
replacement of cylinders, tanks, radiators and sanitary ware
Repairing a failure to your central heating, boiler or hot water system 
We will pay a maximum of 1,500 including VAT for call out, labour, parts and materials
Mr J thought what had happened was a failure of his central heating, boiler or hot water 
system. So it fell within the second category mentioned above which didnt contain any 
exclusion for replacing cylinders or tanks. So IPA should meet the cost of this up to the limit 
of £1,500.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She agreed that 
the compensation for the delay in the engineer attending should be increased to £119.40, 
inclusive of the £75 IPA had previously offered. 
However, she didnt think IPA had acted unfairly in treating the problem as relating to the hot 
water cylinder which the engineer confirmed needed to be replaced. She was satisfied that 
this was clearly excluded under the wording of both the renewal documents and the policy 
itself.
IPA said it would accept the investigators recommendation. Mr J asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to issue a decision.
Mr J reiterated that he considered what had happened, and what he reported to IPA, was a 
fault with the central heating system. So he thought it should be dealt with by IPA under the 
section in the renewal document dealing with the central heating system quoted above, 
which didnt contain any exclusion for replacing the cylinder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has now agreed to pay the compensation of £119.40 recommended by the investigator, 
so I wont say any more about that aspect of the complaint.
In considering a claim under an insurance policy we generally think an insurer is entitled to 
say what claims it is willing to cover under the policy, and what claims are excluded, 
provided it makes this clear to its customer when the policy is taken out. In this case, IPA 
provided two documents to Mr J describing what the policy would cover. 
The main document was the policy itself which was four pages long. Where a customer has 
Gold Home Emergency Cover, as Mr J did, the policy makes it clear he has the benefit of the 
Standard Home Emergency Cover described plus some additional benefits. 
Under the section What is not covered, it lists what is excluded under the Standard part of 
Mr Js policy. This is the wording which IPA initially quoted to Mr J and which Ive set out 
above. It then lists what is excluded under the extra Gold benefits of Mr Js policy, which 
arent relevant to his complaint.
From this, Im satisfied that the exclusion of replacement of cylinders, tanks, radiators etc 
applied generally to any claim made under Mr Js Gold policy, whether it started as a central 
heating claim or a hot water cylinder claim.
Turning to the second document, this was a summary of some important facts about the 
policy which was sent to Mr J at the time of his renewal. However, it says at the beginning:
This summary does not describe all the terms and conditions of the policy. Full details areincluded in the policy document which was supplied when you purchased the policy
The document then summarises the benefits of the policy. Against each benefit it 
summarises the policy exclusions. Against the first benefit Repairing plumbing problems 
related to leaking pipes blocked drains, water tanks, or leaking radiators it sets out the full 
exclusion of the replacement of cylinders and tanks.
Against the second and third benefits, which include Repairing a failure to your central 
heating, boiler or hot water system it only mentions the maximum payment of £1,500.
I think it would have been better, and clearer, if the full exclusion had been set out again 
against the second and third benefits. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to 
rely on the full exclusion in the circumstances of this complaint for two reasons:
1. like the investigator, I think the problem in this case  a split in the water heating pipe 
within the hot water cylinder  fell clearly within the wording of the first benefit, and so 
was covered by the exclusion as described both in the policy document and in the 
summary document; and
2. the summary document makes it clear that it is only a summary, and the full terms 
are set out in the policy document. So in the case of any difference, the policy 
document will prevail.
For these reasons I dont think IPA has treated Mr J unfairly in relation of this part of his 
complaint, and dont require it to do anything more in respect of it.
Putting things right
To put things right, IPA should now compensate Mr J for the delay by its engineer by 
refunding him the full years premium of £119.40, inclusive of the £75 it has previously 
offered him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay 
Mr J £119.40, inclusive of the £75 it has previously offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman