DRN-3766407
The complaint
Mr N complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance Company Limited made to his cars 
windscreen following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse 
his costs and compensate him for the time he couldnt use his car. 
What happened
Mr Ns cars windscreen was chipped and so he made a claim on his policy for its repair. But 
Mr N said Admirals agent made the damage worse and the car was undrivable. It couldnt 
arrange for a replacement for a month. Mr N wanted to go on holiday. So Mr N had the 
replacement done privately for £927.12. Admirals agent said a chip could develop into a 
crack during repair and it wasnt responsible for stock shortages. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to expect Mr N to wait a month for the replacement to be made. He 
thought its agent had caused the further damage. And so he thought Admiral should 
reimburse Mr N his costs less what he would have had to pay the repairer. And he thought it 
should pay Mr N £100 compensation for his trouble and for not being able to use his car. 
Admiral replied that its agents Terms of Business, which Mr N had accepted, stated that 
there was a risk of the repair causing a crack, and it wasnt responsible for this happening. It 
said the replacement was available and an appointment offered before Mr N was due to go 
on holiday. But Mr N had cancelled this and had the replacement done privately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N was unhappy that the technician had caused the chip to develop into a crack and then 
the delays in replacing the windscreen.  
Ive seen the agents Terms of Business. These were sent to Mr N when his appointment for 
repair was confirmed. These state:
3. In the course of repair, glass may crack beyond repair through no fault of our technician. 
You acknowledge that risk. If that happens, we will ask if you would like us to replace the 
glass. If you wish to proceed with replacement, you agree that paragraph 4 below shall apply 
to that service. We will take into account any excess you may have already paid to us.
I think Mr N, by accepting the appointment, accepted the risk. And so I cant reasonably hold 
Admirals agent responsible for the further damage to the windscreen.
Admirals agent said it wasnt able to then offer an appointment for the windscreen 
replacement due to stock shortages at the time. It said that when the product became 
available, it was able to offer an appointment prior to Mr Ns holiday. But Mr N said the 
appointment was offered for five days after they had left for their holiday. And I can see that 
this is confirmed by Admirals file. 
Admiral said it was Mr Ns choice to go direct to the main dealer. It thought the delays were 
outside of its control. I can see that in Mr Ns policy booklet under Windscreen Damage, it is 
stated:
If there is no glass available and it cannot be reasonably sourced, we will pay the cost
shown in the manufacturer's latest price guide, together with reasonable fitting costs.
Ive also looked at the timeline to see if the replacement was made within a reasonable time. 
The first appointment was on 25 June 2022. Mr N was then warned that it could take 
between 7 and 10 days to source the glass. But it was 17 days before Admirals agent called 
Mr N to make an appointment when it had sourced the glass. And the appointment it offered 
was a further 8 days later, making it 25 days in total. 
Mr N had explained that he was without a car and needed the repair to be made so he could 
go on holiday. And I can see that Admiral tried to expedite matters by seeing if the agent 
could use glass from a main dealer. But the agent didnt have a technician available to do 
this before Mr N was due to leave for his long-booked holiday. And Admiral didnt authorise a 
replacement to be made at the main dealers, as it could have done. 
So Im satisfied that the replacement glass wasnt reasonably sourced. And I think the delay 
in making the repair was unreasonable. And so I think, in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions, Admiral should reimburse Mr N for the cost of the windscreen replacement, less 
the applicable policy excess. 
Mr N has already provided an invoice showing that this cost was £927.12. I can see that the 
policy excess for a windscreen replacement is £115. So I think Admiral should reasonably 
reimburse Mr N £812.12. And, as this matter has caused Mr N trouble and upset as he was 
without his car, I think Admiral should reasonably offer him £100 compensation. I think this is 
in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact caused by Admirals handling 
of the claim. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to reimburse Mr N £812.12 and pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman