DRN-3151121
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) closed his claim for a lost 
mobile phone.
What happened
Mr B has mobile phone insurance through his bank account which is underwritten by 
Assurant. On 31 May 2021 Mr B submitted a claim for a lost phone which he says his son 
lost the day before at a restaurant.
Assurant asked Mr B to provide information which showed proof of purchase and proof of 
usage so they could assess the claim.  Once received they asked for further information, 
which included the iCloud status, and provided instructions on how to retrieve this 
information. They were also clear that the device should not be disconnected from the iCloud 
and Find My iPhone (FMiP) application.
Mr B provided this information on 4 June 2021 but the information showed the phone had 
been removed from iCloud. A previous check carried out by Assurant on 2 June 2021 
showed the phone was activated on FMiP and therefore linked to an iCloud account.
As the phone had been removed against instruction Assurant let Mr B know they couldnt 
continue with a full assessment of the claim and therefore it was to be closed.
Mr B was unhappy with this so complained to Assurant. As they maintained their position 
Mr B referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think Assurant needed to 
do anything more, as Mr B remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr B but Ive explained my reasoning below.
Assurant are required to handle claims promptly and fairly. Whilst the policy provided cover 
for loss, there needs to be sufficient information to support a loss has taken place. 
In order to consider a claim, its reasonable for Assurant to ask for evidence to show the 
claim is valid, this isnt unusual and generally the case with insurance claims. 
Mr B provided information to Assurant on 4 June 2021 which showed the phone was 
removed from the iCloud. This was after Assurant emailed Mr B asking for the iCloud status, 
and where they provided clear instructions not to remove it from iCloud. It also explained the 
implications if it was removed. It said:
I also require a screen shot of your iCloud and Find My iPhone account/application 
showing your phone is in lost mode, please note we have checked your phone and seen 
that the application is active.
 
If removed after our phone call or the application is no longer active we will not 
be able to continue with the assessment of your claim.
Assurant also carried out further checks where they used specialist software that enables 
them to view mobile phone data. This software knows the phone status on iCloud and FMiP.
It showed that on 2 June 2021 FMiP was active and therefore linked to iCloud. On 4 June 
2021 FMiP was no longer active and removed from the iCloud. It was then showing as active 
on FMiP when Assurant checked again on 13 July 2021.
My understanding is that you can turn off FMiP through the phone itself but you would need 
to know the relevant apple ID and password to do this. It can also be turned off through 
iCloud if you dont have access to the phone.
Mr B says neither he nor his son removed the phone from the iCloud. However, given that 
the phone was protected by a pin and face recognition, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Assurant to find it unlikely someone else would be able to by-pass the phone security and 
the apple ID security to make these changes. 
The software also showed that the phone was disconnected from the network provider on 
the 30 May 2021, as you would expect when a phone is reported lost. However, the phone 
bar was removed on the 7 June 2021. Assurant believe this is something that would have 
had to have been actioned through the network provider. To do so would mean accessing 
the account through relevant security which could only be done by the account holder or 
someone who knew the account information.
Taking all the information into account and the level of security that would need to be by-
passed to make these changes, I dont think Assurant have been unreasonable in closing 
the claim. They provided clear warning of this in their email to Mr B and given what the 
software data showed, I dont think theyve been unfair in their handling of it. 
Overall, Assurant was left in the position of being unable to satisfy itself the claim was valid 
due to the security features being deactivated against their instructions. Ive carefully 
considered the information Mr Bs provided in support of the claim but taking account of all 
the information, I believe Assurants concerns and the actions they took were reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman