DRN-3044897
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that TSB Bank plc applied a late payment charge and removed a 0% 
promotional interest rate when a direct debit payment was not taken after she made a 
balance transfer onto her credit card. Amongst other things she wants the promotional 
interest rate reinstated. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When completing the balance transfer on 15 May 2020 Mrs A set up an instruction 
for a direct debit. But the timing of the generation of her account statement a few 
days later meant that it was not possible for the direct debit to be activated in time to 
make the first required payment on 12 June 2020.
TSB wrote to Mrs A on 27 May 2020 confirming receipt of her direct debit instruction 
and it explained her direct debit would not come into effect until she received her next 
statement and until then she needed to pay by an alternative method. It also 
explained that if a payment was missed additional charges may arise and any 
promotional offers may be lost. This was also clearly set out in the terms and 
conditions of the account. The next statement on 18 June 2020 showed the first date 
a direct debit payment would be taken would be 13 July 2020 and for how much.
I think TSB acted reasonably in explaining that there was not enough time for it to 
activate the direct debit and that Mrs A would need to make the first payment by 
another means. I also do not think TSB incorrectly set up the direct debit as has been 
suggested.
As a result of the first payment, due on 12 June 2020, not being made in time TSB 
applied a £12 late payment charge and removed the 0% promotional interest rate. I 
think that was reasonable given it had clearly set out the position and warned about 
the consequences of late payment both in its terms and conditions, and 
correspondence.
Mrs A says she was told by TSB on the phone on 30 June 2020 that there was no 
bank error in its setting up of the direct debit but if she made the payment 
immediately the promotional interest rate would be reinstated. I understand Mrs As 
frustration when this proved not to be the case but unfortunately the call was not 
recorded due to the TSB staff member working from home due to the pandemic. And, 
on balance on the available evidence, I do not think I can reasonably conclude that 
TSB agreed to reinstate the promotional interest rate contrary to what it had said 
previously in correspondence and in its terms and conditions. TSB has however 
removed the late payment charge as a gesture of goodwill which is fair.
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mrs As strength of feeling, I do 
not think I can fairly or reasonably require TSB to now do anything more, including 
reinstating the 0% promotional interest rate, refunding any interest, paying 
compensation or amending her credit file as she would like. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman