DRN-1516887
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) have never offered her an 
increase in her credit card limit and then asked for personal information to be sent by post if 
she wanted this reviewed.
What happened
Mrs A has held a credit card account with Capital One for a number of years during which 
time she has always operated the account satisfactorily. Mrs A says that she has other credit 
cards and these providers have regularly increased her credit limits but Capital One never 
has. Mrs A asked Capital One why this was.
Capital One says that they have looked at this but feel unable to increase Mrs As credit card 
limit at the present time, but it would be prepared to look at this again if she provided 
additional information. It says as a responsible lender they look at various factors when 
considering increasing credit card limits and this includes their own lending policy - which 
they are unable to share with her.
Mrs A felt that she shouldnt need to send personal and sensitive information by post and felt 
Capital One had enough information to increase her credit limit without it and referred the 
case to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available to her but didnt uphold the complaint 
and said it is up to Capital One to determine its own lending policy and it gave sufficient 
reason why they didnt automatically increase her credit card limit. She also felt that Capital 
One had done nothing wrong when they asked for further information to review the credit 
limit increase.
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Capital One acted fairly when not 
automatically increasing Mrs A credit card limit and then asking for more information from 
her, for them to review this.
I can understand that it would be frustrating for Mrs A to see her other credit card providers 
regularly increase her credit card limits and Capital One not, despite her having a long 
relationship with them and maintaining her credit card account in a satisfactory way. 
Capital One, like most credit card providers, have their own lending policies and may 
conduct reviews on their customers account from time to time. In the event of them taking 
the decision to decrease a customer credit card limit then I would expect them to give 
appropriate notice as it could be financially detrimental to the card holder. 
When looking at Mrs A terms and conditions under the credit card agreement, it says that 
the credit card limit is determined by them. I cant see that Capital Ones decision to not 
increase Mrs A credit card limit, without her applying for it, has caused her any financial 
disadvantage  even if her other credit card providers have done this. It is not my role to tell 
Capital One how to apply their lending policy so long as they havent acted unfairly when 
doing so. I am satisfied that Capital One gave consideration to increasing Mrs A credit card 
limit and have given her a reasonable explanation why they felt it wasnt appropriate.
What is important here is that Capital One have agreed to review this if Mrs A makes an 
application for an increased limit and provides further information- namely the amount of 
credit she is looking for, her income and any other information she feels may support such a 
request. I would expect Capital One, or any other lender, to ask for this level of information 
given that Mrs As financial position may have changed over the years she has been a 
customer with them. 
As far as the providing this information by post is concerned, while I can understand that Mrs 
A felt this shouldnt be needed  and could pose a security risk - I am satisfied if the increase 
in her credit limit was important to her,  then this could have been overcome by arranging a 
secure postal service arrangement to put her mind at rest. I am satisfied that Capital One 
have been reasonable in asking for the additional information to review her request and have 
provided a sufficient reason why the automatic increase wasnt granted here.
While my decision will be disappointing for Mrs A, it follows that I wont be asking anymore of 
Capital One. I would recommend, that if Mrs A feels an increase in her credit card is 
required, she should consider Capital Ones offer to review this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman