DRN-3327915
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold some packaged bank accounts (PBAs) from 2004 to 
2008 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that he was pressurised into taking the PBAs and they were not suitable for him.
Lloyds says it provided the relevant information about the PBAs to Mr C and advised him to 
take them, and it says they were suitable for him.
I wasnt present at the time of these sales so I cant know what was said. I can only base my 
decision on the evidence available to me today.
Firstly, I note that Mr C was very young when he first opened the bank account. But Lloyds 
has provided evidence that it was an under-19s account with no fee. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong when the account was first opened.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr C converted the account to an ordinary fee free 
account some time after he became an adult, and it was not until several months after that 
that he opened a fee-paying PBA. 
He didnt have an overdraft at this time or apply for one until some years later. And although 
Im sure that Lloyds tried to sell him the PBA by telling him all about it, I cant see any 
evidence that he was pressurised or forced into taking it. And I can see that he went on to 
use the benefits.
So, I think its more likely than not that when he opened his first PBA, he was aware that free 
accounts were available, and he chose to take out the PBA based on the information and 
recommendation Lloyds gave him.
When Mr C upgraded to his second and third PBAs he was very familiar with what PBAs 
were in terms of fees and benefits, and the only overdraft he took out was during a period 
when he had a non-fee-paying account. So again, I think its more likely than not that he 
knew he had a choice and he chose to do the second and third upgrades based on the 
information and recommendation Lloyds gave him.
As Lloyds recommended the PBAs to Mr C it was required to provide him with enough 
information to make an informed decision and to ensure it was suitable for him.
And I think it did. I say this because Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr C went on to 
make multiple use of the key benefits of each product, until he decided to downgrade his 
account several years ago.
Mr C says that he didnt use all the benefits and I accept this. But in my view, its not 
necessary for him to have used all the benefits for it to be suitable.
So, although I know Mr C will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong in selling the PBAs to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman