DRN-4141449
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tuto Money Limited provided him with unsuitable advice to transfer his 
defined benefit pension to a personal pension. He said it caused him a financial loss.
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Ls complaint. He sent both parties his assessment 
of it in April 2023.The background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why 
the investigator thought it should be upheld were set out in his assessment. However in 
summary, Mr L was discussing his pension requirements with Tuto Money in May 2016. Mr L 
completed a client questionnaire for it which recorded that Mr L didnt know details about his 
pension, but that he was planning to take his tax-free cash to be used to move abroad. 
A section of the questionnaire asked a series of questions about Mr Ls attitude to risk. This 
recorded that Mr L agreed that hed rather put his money in cash than invest in shares, 
would prefer guaranteed returns than uncertainty, and was more concerned with possible 
losses than possible gains. It also confirmed only limited losses (0-5%) could be incurred 
before having a significant impact on Mr Ls standard of living. In its Pension Report Tuto 
Money said it had been agreed that Mr Ls attitude to accepting risk was Low. 
Mr L had a deferred annuity policy with a cash equivalent transfer value of £40,892. During a 
call between Mr L and Tuto Money Mr L said that hed returned paperwork to his pension 
provider and although he didnt understand it hed taken the lump sum and a small pension.
Tuto Moneys adviser told Mr L that by transferring away he could obtain double the amount 
of tax-free cash. This would leave him with a pot of around £30,000 which could be dipped 
into if required, as opposed to taking the smaller pension. The adviser agreed to contact the 
pension provider to retract his instruction.  And Tuto Money subsequently discussed with Mr 
L about him applying to transfer his pension. 
A Pension Transfer Report noted that to mirror the benefits which would be payable if Mr L 
retained the existing pension, a yearly growth rate of 3.57% would be required. This took into 
account some charges that reduced the growth by 0.5% per year. But no adviser charges 
were included in the analysis.
An illustration was also provided based on a cautious investment fund, where the gross 
yearly return was illustrated as 4.45%. It showed the costs of running the plan and 
investment fund were expected to reduce the growth rate by 1.25% per year. The adviser 
initial charge of £1,695 and ongoing costs of 1% per year were expected to reduce the 
growth by a further 1.4% per year. So the total charges were expected to reduce the growth 
rate by 2.65% per year, meaning a projected growth rate of 4.45% would be lowered to 1.8% 
per year after charges.
Tuto Money recommended Mr L transfer his pension benefits to a personal pension as
he required cash to aid his transition in moving abroad. It said Mr L would also like to leave 
the full value of the pension to his wife in the event of his death and to take income flexibly.
Tuto Money recommended that Mr L transfer the deferred annuity to another provider into a 
flexible drawdown arrangement and invest in a flexible cautious fund. 
The transfer took place in June 2016. The amount transferred was £40,892. After the tax-
free cash and Tuto Moneys initial charge had been deducted, approximately £28,900 was 
invested.
 
Mr L complained about the advice he received and subsequently referred the matter to us. In 
his assessment our investigator referred to the FCAs (Financial Conduct Authoritys) 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules which provided:
"When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best Interests." (COBS 19.1.6).
The investigator said it was clear from the contemporaneous notes and call recordings that 
Mr L was interested in accessing his funds at that time. It was recorded that Mr L had been 
made redundant and wanted cash to pay for a move abroad. However there was no record 
of how much he required or by what date. The investigator said without knowing those 
details it wouldnt have been possible to say if Mr L should have waited to see what would 
occur regarding finding new employment, or if the existing scheme could provide the lump 
sum to meet his needs.
The investigator said the advice was given during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
the investigator thought they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The investigator said that when Tuto Money advised Mr L it referred to the figure in the 
Pension Transfer Report showing a return of 3.57% was the required growth to mirror the 
existing benefits in retirement. He said this compared to the discount rate of 4.1% per year 
given Mr Ls term to retirement. However the investigator said this wasnt an accurate 
comparison. He said the Pension Transfer Report didnt include the investment fund 
charges, nor advisory costs, both initial and ongoing. The investigator said the reduction in 
yield quoted in the Pension Transfer Report was 0.5% per year, compared to the 
recommended plan illustration of a reduction quoted as 2.65% per year. He said the 
difference of 2.15% would increase the required growth to around 5.72% per year, which 
was approximately 1.62% greater than the discount rate.
The investigator said that for further comparison the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle 5%, and the lower rate 2%. He said that the illustration rates from 
the pension provider were a little over half a percent lower than these rates reflecting the 
cautious investment fund selected. 
The investigator said Mr Ls deferred annuity was his sole recorded pension provision aside 
from his state pension. With no other assets to rely on, he said Mr L had a low capacity for 
loss, which wouldve likely meant the security of the guaranteed benefits offered by the 
deferred annuity wouldve been very important to him. He said the deferred annuity offered 
valuable benefits with virtually no risk. And he thought this would have been more 
appropriate for Mr L given his circumstances at the time. He said he thought Mr L was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the deferred annuity at retirement 
given the circumstances.
The investigator said that at the time the advice was given Mr L wasnt in a good financial 
position. He had recently been made redundant and had no income, savings or other 
investments. He acknowledged Mr L was keen to access his funds, although as hed already 
noted, it wasnt recorded how much he required and when.
The investigator said that the adviser had explained to Mr L that as well as the greater tax-
free cash he would be able to withdraw ad-hoc sums from his pension following the transfer. 
However the investigator said it wasnt explained that by drawing higher amounts than would 
have been payable though the deferred annuity Mr L would likely exhaust his fund. Mr L did 
subsequently make further withdrawals from his pension. 
The investigator noted that one of the objectives for the transfer was to enable Mr L to 
improve on the pensions death benefits  both in terms of amount and flexibility. Mr L 
nominated his wife to benefit from 100% of the remaining funds. The investigator noted that 
the deferred annuity provided a 50% spouses pension which would also have been paid to 
Mr Ls wife. And although the personal pension paid out 100% of the fund value the annuity 
provided the significant benefit of a guaranteed income. 
The investigator didnt think that Tuto Money had demonstrated there was a compelling need 
that meant transferring was in Mr Ls best interests. He acknowledged that Mr L was keen to 
access the higher lump sum available following a transfer. And that the income that would 
have been payable from the deferred annuity was modest. However he said that Mr L was 
risk averse and didnt want to lose any money. And it was clear that Mr L didnt understand 
pension issues and was reliant on the advice he was being given. He said it wasnt clear 
what sum Mr L required or when. And Mr L had already started to arrange to take the 
deferred annuity before Tuto Money cancelled it.
The investigator thought, on balance, that if the adviser had recommended that Mr L retain 
the deferred annuity Mr L would likely have accepted that advice. He said Mr L was clearly 
relying on the advisers advice given his lack of understanding of pensions. And he didnt 
want to risk his funds. He thought if the risk had been appropriately explained Mr L would 
have been more comfortable with the lower risk presented by the deferred annuity and kept 
it. The investigator said he therefore thought that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Tuto Money didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said although the investigator had 
said it wasnt clear how much money Mr L required and when, it was clear from the Fact 
Find and its report that Mr L wanted the maximum tax-free cash and as soon as possible. It 
said on all the pension withdrawal documentation all the expected caveats and warnings had 
been provided about Mr Ls fund running out (and it provided copies of the documentation). 
Tuto Money said that although the investigator had quoted the critical yield the FCA had 
itself said this was less important than making sure a client was able to meet their objectives. 
It said Mr L was quite clear, as he had no access to any other funds and needed the money 
to move abroad. 
Tuto Money also said the transfer did provide additional flexibility, and especially on death. 
Although Mr L may have nominated his wife to benefit from 100% of the remaining funds he 
could change his beneficiary at any time if, for example, his wife pre-deceased him. And in 
those circumstances the remainder of the funds would be paid out but if he kept the deferred 
annuity nothing further would be paid on death.
Mr L, through his representative, agreed with the provisional findings. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
Its clear from the contemporaneous documentation that Mr L had very little experience or 
understanding of pensions or investments and so relied on the recommendation provided by 
the adviser. Its also clear that he was a low-risk investor, and had a low capacity for loss. 
His answers to the questions posed in the risk questionnaire were consistent with someone 
who was not comfortable with and didnt want to take any appreciable risks.
As explained by the investigator, COBS rule 19.1.6 provides, in summary, that when 
advising a retail client about transferring safeguarded benefits a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer will not be suitable. And that a firm should only then consider a 
transfer to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best Interests.
The suitability report said that an investment return of 3.57% was required on the transfer 
value to match the benefits that would otherwise have been provided by the annuity at age 
65. It went onto say it is likely that this level of growth would be maintained over a period of 
time. Because this would rely on investment growth, it may be that you will be giving 
up a more valuable benefit in favour of taking the tax-free cash now.
However as explained by the investigator, this 3.57% figure didnt reflect all the charges that 
were associated with the transaction. In reality something around 5.5% would have been 
required every year. So this was more consistent with the middle growth rate used in the 
regulators illustrations. Whilst I accept the firm did say that Mr L may be giving up a more 
valuable benefit, I think the investment return actually required was significantly higher than 
Mr L understood he had agreed to accept. And given the cautious nature of the funds that Mr 
L was invested in I think it was more the case to be unlikely that such a level of growth would 
be maintained over time. So I think this was misleading, and I dont think Mr L was in a 
position to make an informed decision. 
I accept the yield required on the investment is only one factor to consider in deciding if a 
transfer is in the clients best interests. But it does give some indication of the degree of risk 
being presented. 
In making his complaint through his representative Mr L has said if hed known the transfer 
of his pension would have resulted him losing money in retirement he would not have gone 
ahead with it. And his representative said that Mr Ls temporary need for cash should not 
have taken priority over the future of his retirement. Mr L said that the firm didnt ask him 
about alternative ways to generate cash to meet his objectives. And that he could have 
borrowed money from his wifes parents which he now thinks was a better option. 
Clearly this is said with the benefit of hindsight and so has to be considered in that context.  
However, it is consistent with the documentation that was completed at the time recording 
Mr Ls low risk profile, consistent with Mr Ls responses to the risk questionnaire and 
consistent with his very limited capacity for loss. Tuto Money didnt explain to Mr L that in 
reality the investment risk was higher than he had initially agreed to accept, but that it 
provided other benefits that might make taking that greater degree of risk worthwhile to 
enable him to make an informed decision. So the transfer wasnt consistent with either Mr 
Ls appetite or capacity for risk.Tuto Money said that Mr Ls wifes circumstances were discussed, and Mr L made no 
mention of his wifes parents being able or willing to lend them money. However Ive seen no 
record of alternative options to raise cash (over and above the £4,500 provided by the 
deferred annuity which I accept he was taking) having being discussed outside of Mr Ls 
existing financial provision or his wifes, as Tuto Money was obliged to explore.
As explained above, COBS 19.16.6 required that the firm demonstrate on contemporary 
evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ls best Interests. Taking all the above into account 
and for the reasons set out by the investigator, I dont think Tuto Money has demonstrated it 
was in Mr Ls best interests, and so I think the investigators recommendation that the 
complaint should be upheld is reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome is for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would likely have 
retained the deferred annuity if suitable advice had been given.
Tuto Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr L had applied to take benefits from the deferred annuity in May 2016. And he 
took benefits shorty after. Compensation should be based on him taking benefits at the 
same time.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr
Ls acceptance of this decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto Money limited should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Tuto Moneys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tuto Money may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would
have been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall (where some of it could be paid as tax free cash) from the loss adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tuto Money deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Tuto Money should give Mr
L a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I order that Tuto Money Limited calculates and pays Mr L compensation as outlined above 
under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman