DRN-4112905
The complaint
Mr V complains about the way AXIS Speciality Europe SE settled a fire damage claim under 
a Landlords Occupied insurance policy. 
What happened
A property Mr V rents to tenants suffered extensive fire damage in 2021. So, he raised a 
claim to AXIS which it accepted. 
AXIS concluded Mr V was underinsured. Thats because its estimate for the cost of 
rebuilding the property at the time of the claim was more than the sum insured he declared 
when taking out the policy. So, AXIS offered to pay Mr V roughly 80% of the claim 
settlement. It says this was the amount he was adequately insured for. AXIS say the sum 
insured ought to have been at least £300,000, and Mr V said the sum insured was just under 
£259,000. 
Mr V told AXIS he wasnt happy about this. The sum insured was based on what a surveyor 
recommended the sum insured be within a home buyers report previously, and Mr V had 
included an increase to reflect inflation over the years. 
He also says AXIS inflated its estimate for the rebuild cost after the claim incident when 
employing a surveyor who thought the sum insured should be £392,000. And this was after 
several surveyors provided various sum insured figures. He says when he took out the 
policy, he was asked what the buildings sum insured was and provided a reasonable 
answer. He asked our Service for an impartial review as he thought AXIS settled the claim 
unfairly  leaving him substantially out of pocket. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She wasnt persuaded AXIS 
demonstrated Mr V failed to provide a fair presentation of the risk based on the question 
asked by a broker  nor did AXIS provide information it asked the broker to gather for them. 
So, she didnt think AXIS acted in line with The Insurance Act 2015 and therefore AXIS 
should settle the claim in full and include interest. 
AXIS said the sum insured was inadequate, and although the question asked by the broker 
didnt offer a lot of clarity, the policy information sets out the consequences of being 
underinsured. This didnt change the Investigators view, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXIS has reduced the claim settlement because it doesnt think the sum insured provided by 
the Mr V when he took out the policy was sufficient. The relevant law about this is The 
Insurance Act 2015 (The Act). It sets out the duty on the policyholder when taking out the 
policy  and potential remedies available to the insurer if the policyholder doesnt fulfil their 
duty. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to take into account the law in the 
circumstances of this case.  
The Act requires a policyholder to provide a fair presentation of risk. So, my starting point is 
considering the question AXIS think Mr V answered unreasonably. In this case, the policy 
was sold through a broker. 
AXIS confirmed the broker asked Mr V, What is the building sum insured? 
AXIS isnt responsible for the sale, the question(s) asked, or any surrounding guidance or 
support provided during the sale. But it is responsible for setting out to the broker what 
information is required in order to set up the policy properly. Our Service asked AXIS what 
information it asked the broker to gather for it in relation to the sum insured. AXIS hasnt 
provided anything regarding the same. So, Im not satisfied its clear AXIS asked the broker 
to gather an estimate for the rebuild cost from Mr V.  
AXIS accept the question cited above doesnt offer a lot of clarity in isolation. Its my view its 
not that its unclear, its that it doesnt ask for the right information from Mr V. But AXIS say 
the policy information provided to Mr V clearly set out the consequences of underinsurance, 
he needed to ensure cover was adequate, and he could have asked the broker for clarity if 
he needed it. Ill return to this point later. 
It's important to say the onus is on the insurer to show an answer provided by a policyholder 
didnt amount to a fair presentation of the risk. AXIS hasnt shown it wanted to know the 
rebuild cost, it merely wanted a sum insured. So, I need to consider whether Mr V gave a 
fair presentation of the risk in that context. I dont think it would be fair to penalise Mr V for 
not providing a rebuild cost when AXIS hasnt shown thats what it wanted him to provide. 
Mr V says he selected a sum insured of £258,750. And this sum insured was based on a 
2007 pre-purchase report from a qualified surveyor who recommended the sum insured be 
£190,000. Mr V says he calculated inflation costs to reflect any increases over the years. I 
think thats reasonable. I say this because Mr V answered the question based on a 
professionals opinion of the sum insured. And he took reasonable steps to consider the 
increase from 2007, and what a reasonable sum insured was when incepting the policy. 
Ive also kept in mind several sum insured amounts have been provided following the claim. 
What other surveyors have provided after the claim isnt relevant here because that 
information wasnt available to Mr V when he took out the policy  all he had was the one 
estimate and its my view he used that reasonably. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied AXIS acted fairly and reasonably when concluding Mr V failed to 
make a fair presentation of risk. Under The Act, AXIS has no remedy if the policyholder 
makes a fair presentation of the risk. So, AXIS acted unfairly when it proportionally settled 
the claim. 
Returning to my earlier point, I acknowledge AXIS say the policy documentation detailed the 
consequences of being underinsured. The policy instructs Mr V to read the whole 
documentation carefully, and to contact the broker if the document is incorrect, or if he has 
any questions. Then, on page 20 of the policy documents, it sets out how AXIS will settle 
buildings claims. And that AXIS will pay for the full cost of repairs so long as: 
the sum insured is enough to pay for full cost of rebuilding the buildings in their 
present form 
The policy goes on to say:  Your sum insured 
2. If you are under-insured, which means the cost of rebuilding the buildings at the time of 
loss or damage is more than your sum insured for the buildings, then we will only pay a 
proportion of the claim. For example, if your sum insured only covers one half of the cost of 
rebuilding the buildings; we will only pay one half of the cost of repair or replacement. 
AXIS ultimately is seeking to rely on its right to apply a proportionate settlement to a claim 
based on a policy term on page 20. Whilst the term is in the policy and is clearly worded, Im 
not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AXIS to rely on it. To do 
so would mean putting Mr V in a worse position than provided for by The Act  and The Act 
is clear that an insurer may only do so if it takes certain steps to contract out of The Act. But 
AXIS hasnt said this is what it has done or pointed to any of the relevant steps. 
Putting things right
The Act requires a policyholder to provide a fair presentation of risk. Im not satisfied AXIS 
has demonstrated Mr V answered the question cited above unreasonably, and therefore 
failed to provide a fair presentation of risk. Nor am I satisfied AXIS contracted out of The Act 
because Im not satisfied the evidence supports it fulfilled the transparency requirements set 
out within The Act. Therefore, it follows, Ill be directing AXIS to meet Mr Vs fire claim in full 
and include interest on the outstanding claim settlement amount payable. 
AXIS should keep the buildings sum insured at £258,750 for the policy year in which the 
claim occurred because thats what Mr V wanted as the sum insured. But this doesnt impact 
the outcome of the claim as the claim value is lower than the sum insured in any case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require 
AXIS Specialty Europe SE to settle the remainder of Mr Vs buildings claim for fire damage. 
It must include 8% simple interest* to the remaining claim settlement, from the date the initial 
claim settlement payment was made, to the date of settlement. 
*If AXIS Speciality Europe SE considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much it has taken off. It should 
also give Mr V a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman