DRN-2317587
The complaint
Mr H complains that The New India Assurance Company Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy without giving him proper notice.
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy with The New India Assurance Company Limited. He 
took this policy out with a broker who Ill call B. After taking out the policy, B sent Mr H a 
letter on New Indias behalf, both in the post and through its online portal asking for some 
details and documentation in order to validate the policy. This letter explained that if Mr H 
didnt send B the required information by the deadline, New India might make changes to his 
policy, or it might cancel it.
Mr H uploaded most of the documentation B asked for, but he couldnt get proof of his no 
claims discount by the deadline, so he uploaded his previous policy renewal invite in its 
place.
As B hadnt received all the information by the deadline in its letter, it issued Mr H with a 
cancellation notice in the post on New Indias behalf. This notice explained Mr Hs policy 
would be cancelled in seven days if all the documents werent received. As B heard nothing 
more, it cancelled Mr Hs policy for New India. B then sent Mr H a further letter on New 
Indias behalf explaining his policy had been cancelled.
Mr H was unhappy with this and complained to B. He said hed received the first letter asking 
for some details and documentation via the online portal. But because hed since moved in 
with a family member due to the Coronavirus pandemic hed not been home and seen the 
warning or notice of cancellation. He said after receiving the request via the online portal, he 
thought hed sent in everything he needed. He thought there was a chance his policy 
premium would be temporarily increased until he provided proof of his no claims discount 
and expected further correspondence about the matter to be sent via the portal too if what 
hed sent in wasnt acceptable.
B didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had done what it needed to by writing to him. And it 
said it was Mr Hs responsibility to update his correspondence address. It said had he done 
so, hed have received the letters it sent. It also said Mr H was aware the information needed 
to be sent and could have contacted it after he heard nothing more.
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator recommended it be upheld. He 
thought the first request for information via the portal didnt make it clear enough that the 
policy would be cancelled. And he thought New India (via B) should have sent the seven day 
notice of cancellation and the confirmation of cancellation via the portal as well as via post. 
He thought it was understandable that Mr H didnt update B or New India about his 
temporary change of address, as he wasnt moving his car there with him and didnt know 
how long hed be there for.
He recommended New India record the policy as cancelled by Mr H. And he thought New 
India should pay Mr H £200 compensation for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
New India didnt agree and so the case has come to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B was entitled to carry out validation checks on New Indias behalf on the information Mr H 
provided when he took out the policy. And in this case, Im satisfied the checks it did were 
carried out by B on New Indias behalf. Looking at the evidence I can see it initially did so 
both via post and via the online portal. Its clear Mr H saw this request as he sent in all the 
documentation required, with the exception of proof of his no claims discount.
Ive looked at a copy of this first letter, and I think it clearly explained what information was 
needed and when it was needed by. The letter went on to say that if the information wasnt 
received, the policy may be changed or cancelled.
New India has said it was clear from this first request that Mr Hs policy might be cancelled. 
And I agree, the possibility of cancellation was clear. But it wasnt clear that Mr Hs policy 
would be cancelled, only that it might be. Mr H sent in all the requested documents, other 
than proof of his no claims discount. And he sent something else in in place of this. Based 
on this, I find his explanation that he thought he would be contacted if he needed to send 
more information in, or his policy would be temporarily more expensive until he did, 
reasonable assumptions.
New India Assurance Company Limited has said it was Mr Hs responsibility to let it know 
about any changes in his circumstances. And I agree it was. But I also find Mr Hs 
explanation for not telling it hed moved in with a family member reasonable. The 
Coronavirus pandemic was a great time of uncertainty for both businesses and consumers, 
and Mr H has said his arrangement was only temporary. He wasnt taking the car with him, 
so he didnt think there was anything to update B about, especially as he knew there was an 
online portal he could receive information through.
Had Mr H told New India about his temporary arrangement, its likely hed have received the 
cancellation warning letter and the notification of cancellation. Had he done so, I think its 
likely hed have contacted it to ask for more time to get proof of his no claims discount. And if 
this wasnt granted, I think he would have likely cancelled the policy himself to avoid New 
India cancelling it and arranged alternative cover. I say this because its clear that although 
Mr H didnt take his car with him, he still wanted and needed it to be insured. This is 
evidenced by him contacting B as soon as he received his proof of no claims discount, only 
to find it was too late as his policy had been cancelled. 
Mr H has said as he received the first request for information via the portal, he was 
expecting any further notifications to be sent through it too. And Im satisfied this is 
reasonable. Had B done this, I think its likely Mr H would have asked for more time or 
cancelled his policy if New India wouldnt give him any. Its clear that Mr H was cooperating 
with B because he sent in most the information it requested from him after receiving the 
notification through the portal. Had he received another notification through the portal, I find it likely hed have acted on it. 
Im also of the opinion that B could have done more with the information it received from 
Mr H. The only information it didnt receive was the proof of his no claims discount, but it did 
have the previous renewal documentation from his old insurer, so could have contacted it.
I appreciate New India wasnt aware Mr H was away, and therefore didnt know he wasnt 
receiving the letters B sent to him. But I do question why B used the portal to send a request 
for important information it needed from Mr H, but didnt use the portal to send important 
follow ups to that request that Mr B needed, such as the warning and notice of cancellation.
In summary, I find it reasonable that Mr H wasnt sufficiently put on notice that his policy 
would cancel on the first request he received via the online portal. And I find it reasonable 
that he expected any further correspondence about the issue to be sent via the same format. 
After all, hed received communication through this method in the past, and it was clear he 
accessed this as he submitted the information requested through it. Had New India done 
this, I find it likely Mr H would have taken a different action as described above, and not 
been inconvenienced in an already worrying time.
Putting things right
Mr H only found out about the policy being cancelled when he returned home. This meant he 
was worried his car had been uninsured and had to arrange replacement cover.
B has said Mr H wont need to declare this cancellation to future insurers. But irrespective of 
what B thinks Mr H will or will not have to declare this policy should be recorded as cancelled 
by Mr H, not by New India if its not already recorded as such. And its worth saying here that 
Mr H that what Mr H has to declare will depend on whatever questions he is asked by any 
future insurers.
And for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H by finding out his car was uninsured 
and having to arrange a new policy, I require New India to pay him compensation. Our 
investigator recommended £200. But I think a figure of £100 is fairer in the circumstances. 
New India could have done more here, but so too could Mr H, such as returning home to 
check his post.
My final decision
Based on the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require The New 
India Assurance Company Limited to:
Record the policy as cancelled by Mr H
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 Joe Thornley
Ombudsman