DRN-3679788
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a card payment she says she 
didnt make.
What happened
Miss A disputes making a payment of £754.99 on 7 March 2022 and wants the money to be 
refunded. She says she had access to her mobile and her debit card at the time. A payment 
for £100 the day before that shed reported as fraudulent had been refunded.
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding the further payment. It said that a one-time passcode 
(OTP) was sent by text message to Miss As phone to make the payment. And the IP 
address used matched that Miss A had logged on with to mobile banking. It said it had made 
temporary credits for both payments but in error permanently refunded £100 and wouldnt be 
asking for this back. But it had re-debited the payment of £754.99 and was holding Miss A 
liable for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Hed seen the evidence 
about the OTP. Thered been no point of compromise for Miss As phone or debit card. And 
only one payment had been attempted despite there being further funds available.
Miss A didnt agree and said that she didnt receive the OTP. When she saw that there were 
pending payments on her account shed called the fraud team. She said we could contact 
her network provider about that. She hadnt received any notification about either payment 
as she had in the past. And wed not asked her for evidence. She couldnt understand why 
one payment had been refunded and the other not. She thought this was a fraud by 
someone within Barclays who had changed the details. This is a significant amount of 
money for her to lose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated with security information. And if the payment wasnt 
authorised Miss A wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how this payment was made?
- Did Miss A authorise the payment on the account which could involve allowing someone 
else to use the card?
Barclays has provided the evidence about how the payment was made. Im satisfied it was 
authenticated with Miss As card details and that an OTP was sent and input to make the 
payment. The issue is whether Miss A consented to the payment and authorised it.
I appreciate that Barclays isnt holding Miss A liable for an earlier payment made with her 
card. So, I dont need to evaluate how that was made in this complaint although I do note 
that this didnt seem to require an OTP. But for the payment that remains in dispute there is 
no explanation of how an unknown person would have been able to access Miss As phone 
to receive the OTP. And I also note that directly after the payment there was a log in to 
Mobile banking. Both that log in and the payment used the same IP address. There was no 
new device registered to the account. And Miss A says she had her phone at the time. 
There were no other payments made in this way even though as our investigator says there 
were significant funds in her account. 
I know that Miss A says she called when the payment was still pending on her account and 
then again when it had been applied. I accept that and dont think that recordings of calls 
with Barclays about this would assist me. Its also reasonably up to Miss A to provide any 
other evidence she wants me to consider. I dont have anything to support that this payment 
was somehow carried out by a member of staff as she alleges.
Im afraid having balanced all the factors in this case I think its most likely that Miss A either 
authorised the payment herself or allowed someone else to use her card details and phone. 
In either case she remains fairly liable for this payment. And so, I know she will be 
disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman