DRN-2215092
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way British Gas Insurance Ltd (BGI) responded when he made a 
claim under his home emergency insurance policy after his central heating boiler broke 
down.
  
What happened
Mr S had a home emergency insurance policy with BGI for some years. In October 2019 he 
called on BGI when the hot water supply in his central heating system failed.
Mr Ss heating system had a history of having been blocked by accumulated sludge. BGI 
had advised Mr S in the past to have it power flushed, but he had declined.
The BGI engineer who attended the breakdown advised that the heat exchanger had again 
become blocked by sludge and should be replaced. He said that because BGI had advised 
Mr S in the past to have a power flush, but he had not done this, and the damage to the heat 
exchanger was brought about by sludge, this repair work wasnt covered by his BGI policy.
BGI gave Mr S a quote for replacing the heat exchanger, but he had the work done for less 
by another engineer. However, this didnt restore the hot water, and he called BGI back 
again. BGI called in an engineer from the boiler manufacturer. He said a filter needed to be 
cleared. He rinsed this under running water, and the system worked again.
Mr S complained to BGI. He said it hadnt been necessary after all to replace the heat 
exchanger, and so BGI should refund the £348 he had paid for this. He was also unhappy 
that it had taken BGIs engineers three visits, including a missed appointment, to produce a 
solution, and he had to wait in for these, and suffer loss of earnings, as well as stress and 
inconvenience.
BGI said the heat exchanger would have contained the same sludge as was blocking the 
filter. So there was no evidence that it didnt need to be replaced as well as the filter being 
cleared. It offered Mr S a goodwill payment of £20 because of the number of visits that had 
been required. Mr S didnt think this was sufficient and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He said BGI had 
been recommending Mr S since 2015 to have a power flush to clear accumulated sludge, 
but Mr S had refused to do so.
The terms of Mr Ss BGI policy made it clear that if BGI had told Mr S previously that he 
needed to carry out repairs, improvements or a power flush or a similar process, but he 
hadnt done so, then damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris wasnt covered by 
the policy.
The investigator said BGI was entitled to say that the cost of replacing the heat exchanger 
wasnt covered by the policy, and would have to be met by Mr S.
When the manufacturers engineer attended, he got the system working again by cleaning 
the filter. But the engineer didnt say the replacement of the heat exchanger hadnt also been 
necessary, and there wasnt any evidence to say this hadnt been required. So the 
investigator didnt think it was reasonable for BGI to have to reimburse the cost of the heat 
exchanger.
BGI had acknowledged, and apologised for, the number of appointments that were needed. 
The investigator thought that appropriate compensation for this was £150 rather than the 
£20 that BGI had offered.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that:
BGI had replaced his heat exchanger as recently as March 2018. So he didnt 
understand why it needed to be replaced again only 18 months later;
BGI hadnt mentioned he needed to carry out a power flush before saying he 
should change the heat exchanger, so he wasnt convinced this had been 
needed;
he was self-employed, and thought he had lost some two days work at the 
rate of £200 to £250 a day, with having to attend the engineers; and
he and his wife had suffered stress with not having hot water while the repair 
was being carried out;
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the investigator to put the points Mr S had raised to BGI. It responded to say, in 
summary, that:
the need for the heat exchanger to be replaced again after 18 months was 
likely to be because sludge had built up again and damaged the heat 
exchanger;
Mr S had repeatedly failed to follow advice to have his system flushed. This 
was quoted for in March 2018. BGI said it was likely he had been informed 
again in October 2019 that this was needed, although this wasnt recorded on 
BGIs notes; and
while a filter could be cleaned using running water, a heat exchanger couldnt 
be cleaned in the same way as it was a main component of the boiler.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that the replacement of the heat exchanger by BGI 
in October 2019 wasnt necessary. On the balance of probabilities, I think it was likely that 
because the issue of sludge in the system hadnt been addressed, a further accumulation of 
sludge in the heat exchanger meant it had to be replaced again.
The terms of Mr Ss policy with BGI which the investigator referred to meant it was 
reasonable for BGI to say this work wasnt covered by the policy. When the manufacturers 
engineer came he got the system working by cleaning the filter. However, the new heat 
exchanger was by then in place. So the engineer wouldnt have been in a position to say it 
hadnt needed to be replaced. 
Its right that Mr S should be compensated for the number of appointments that were made 
before the work was completed. Mr S is self-employed and said he lost earnings he estimated at £400 or £500 because of time he spent waiting for BGI. However, I havent 
seen any evidence to show earnings of this amount were irrevocably lost.
The investigator thought compensation of £150 was appropriate for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr S had suffered, rather than the £20 BGI had offered. I agree that £150 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BGI should pay Mr S compensation of £150, inclusive of the £20 it 
has offered him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr S compensation of £150, inclusive of the £20 it has offered him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman