DRN-3397677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the settlement of a claim by UK Insurance Limited 
(UKI) under a home insurance policy in relation to flooring.
 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their policy when they discovered that a 
pipe behind a radiator had been leaking in their airing cupboard. This had caused water to 
leak through the ceiling of the kitchen below, and had damaged the flooring in the kitchen. 
UKI confirmed that the claim would be covered, and it was agreed that Mr and Mrs C would 
send it repair quotes.
It took some months for Mr and Mrs C to be able to obtain quotes due to the Covid 
pandemic. When a quote was forwarded to UKI, it noted that it included the costs of 
replacing the flooring in the kitchen together with the flooring in the adjacent hallway and the 
living room. Although the flooring in the hallway and living room had not been damaged by 
the water leak, Mr and Mrs C commented that identical flooring ran from the kitchen to these 
other rooms. They explained that they were no longer able to obtain an exact replacement 
for this flooring, which is why they were asking for UKI to cover the costs of replacing the 
hallway and living room floor too.
UKI stated that it did not consider it was liable to replace the hallway or living room flooring 
because there were door bars between each of the rooms.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed that the flooring in the rooms was separated. Unhappy with UKIs 
stance, they brought a complaint to this service. Mr C stated that the breaks in the flooring 
between the rooms do not represent door bars, but instead are strips to hide expansion gaps 
which were fitted in line with the manufacturers instructions. He also highlighted that whilst 
there is an arch between the kitchen and hallway, there is no door.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Whilst she accepted that the flooring used in 
the three rooms in question was the same type and colour, her view was that there was a 
break between them, so that the flooring was not a continuous flow. As such she didnt 
consider the flooring in the rooms represented a matching set, and she felt UKI wasnt 
required to cover the cost of the undamaged floors in the hallway and living room.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators findings. Mr C commented that a specialist 
floor fitter has told him that the separation between the flooring in the three rooms represents 
threshold strips that allow the laminate to expand due to temperature fluctuations. Mr C 
reiterated that whilst there is an archway between the kitchen and hallway, there is no door.
Between the hallway and living room Mr C confirmed that there is a door, but he said the 
flooring is separated not by a door bar, but by a threshold strip. As the door can be closed, 
Mr C stated that he understands why the living room flooring might not be covered. But he 
said it would be very noticeable if the floor in the kitchen was different to the hallway in the 
absence of a door between those two rooms. Mr C therefore suggested a compromise 
whereby UKI covers the hallway flooring, but not the living room.
UKI responded that it still considers there to be a break between the kitchen and hallway 
flooring, and it was therefore not willing to alter the basis of settlement. As a result, Mr and 
Mrs C asked that an ombudsman review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers them for damage caused to their home by water leaks. With 
regard to the buildings cover, it states that UKI will not pay to restore undamaged items 
solely because they are part of a set. However, this service has an established approach to 
insurance claims that relate to what are often called matching sets  these being items that 
are designed to be put together to form a group of items that look the same.
Flooring can sometimes be considered to represent a matching set, where the flooring 
continues beyond a single room. Where flooring in a home represents a matching set, this 
service might decide that it is fair for an insurer to compensate a consumer for areas of the 
flooring that have not been damaged by an insured event, where some part of the flooring 
has been damaged. That is to reflect the loss of match that the policyholder has suffered, if 
it is not possible to replace the damaged flooring with identical items.
UKI has agreed to cover the cost of replacing the flooring in the kitchen which was damaged 
by the water leak. Mr and Mrs C have asked that it also cover the cost of replacing the 
hallway floor, as this is adjacent to the kitchen and is fitted with identical laminate. When this 
complaint was first bought to this service, they also suggested the identical flooring in the 
living room should be covered by UKI. The question for me to determine is whether UKI has 
acted fairly by stating that it will only pay for replacement of the kitchen floor.
Loss of match can occur when part of an area of flooring is damaged, that flooring is not 
directly replaceable, and the same flooring continues into further rooms. A key issue is the 
extent to which the flooring actually continues between rooms. Mr and Mrs C have assisted 
by providing a number of photos showing the layout of their home. They have described the 
separators between the kitchen, hall and living room as being threshold strips, rather than 
door bars. And they have explained that gaps are in place in line with the recommendations 
made for fitting the laminate.
I have carefully considered these comments made by Mr and Mrs C, together with the 
related images. I note what they say about the kitchen and hallway having no door between 
them. However, my view is that the flooring does not run in a continuous way between the 
kitchen and hall, or onto the living room. Thats because of the separators laid between 
these three rooms that I consider demarcate the flooring in each of them. In my view, these 
do effectively mark the boundary of each room, even in the absence of a door being in place.
Consequently, my conclusion is that it would not be reasonable to require UKI to make a 
contribution for the undamaged flooring outside of the kitchen. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs 
C will be disappointed with my findings. However, based on the weight of evidence provided, 
my view is that UKI has acted fairly when stating that it will not contribute towards the 
undamaged flooring in the hallway and living room
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman