DRN-3207795
The complaint
Mr T has complained that TM Advances Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In August 2015 Mr T applied online for a loan from TM for £1,500. The loan was taken out 
over 24 months with an APR of 185.3% and his monthly repayments were £156.13 making 
the total repayable at the end of the term £3,747.12. He repaid the loan in line with his 
agreement.
Mr T complained that TM hadnt properly checked the loan was affordable for him. 
TM didnt agree that it hadnt carried out proper checks. It said it had carried out two credit 
searches and verified his income. It thought the purpose of the loan, his credit profile and the 
information hed given at the time of his application were all reasonable.
Mr T referred his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought TM shouldnt have lent the loan. As TM 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ts complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did TM complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be 
able to repay loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did TM act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required TM to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so TM had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TM to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
With regard to the first question Mr T told TM his net monthly income was £1,875. He owned 
his home outright, so he didnt have to pay a mortgage or rent. He said he paid £1,674 on 
living costs, including £324 on other credit commitments. That meant he would have a 
disposable monthly income of £42 after making the new loan repayment to TM of £156.13 
and his credit commitments would amount to just over 25% of his income.
The credit checks carried out by TM showed that Mr T was a moderate risk meaning there 
was a low likelihood of him experiencing repayment problems. Hed had no defaults in the 
previous 36 months but seemed an active user of short term loans with 26 settled accounts 
and 4 active accounts.
Simply performing credit checks isnt necessarily enough. A lender needs to take proper 
account of what those checks show. Mr T was entering into a relatively long loan agreement 
of 24 months and over that period hed have very little disposable income. So, I think it 
would have been reasonable and proportionate here for TM to ask for more information 
about Mr Ts financial situation and to verify his actual monthly expenditure. It could have 
done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr T and by asking him for 
more information about his existing credit commitments. As I cant see it did this, I dont 
think the checks TM carried out before providing Mr T with his loan were reasonable and 
proportionate. But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Ts complaint should succeed. I also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TM that he 
couldn't sustainably afford the loan. Mr T has provided some bank statements from around 
the time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that TM 
should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these gives a very good indication of his 
financial situation around the time he applied for the loan from TM.
Ive reviewed Mr Ts bank statements in the two month period before he applied for the loan. 
I can see in June 2015 his existing credit commitments came to £394.27 and he took out five 
short term loans of £525 in total. In July 2015 his credit commitments went up to £595.37 
and he took out three short term loans of £100 each. Both months he made repayments to 
two debt collection firms. This suggests to me that Mr Ts financial situation was worsening. 
Based on the July figures with the new loan repayment to TM his credit commitments would 
be about 40% of his net monthly salary.
In short, if TM had carried out the further checks that I think were needed for this loan, I think 
it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr Ts financial problems were not going to be 
improved by it making this loan. And it would have probably seen that there was a significant 
risk that Mr T wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the loan without undue difficulty. 
So I dont think that TM treated Mr T fairly when it agreed to lend to him as it was likely that 
giving him more credit would simply add to his indebtedness.
Ive also thought about whether TM acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen any 
evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think TM should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Mr T as payments towards the capital amount of £1,500,
if Mr T has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement and
remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM to take off tax from this interest. TM must give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. TM Advances Limited should 
put things right for Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman