DRN-3037798
The complaint
Mr M complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The contract reached maturity in May 2021.
At the end of the contract the car was inspected for damage. MBFS invoiced Mr M for 
damage charges totalling £290.
Mr M disputed the charges. He said the damage was acceptable wear and tear. He also said 
hed hardly driven the car and had returned it having used only 14,000 of the 20.000 mileage 
allowance.
In response, MBFS said it had provided Mr M with the vehicle returns standards so that he 
was aware of the expected return condition of the car. It said the damage charged for fell 
outside of the returns standards and remained chargeable.
Mr M was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the charges had been applied fairly and 
in accordance with the relevant fair wear and tear guidance.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr M must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. Damage has been identified to the 
RHR alloy, the LHR alloy and the RH B pillar. Ive taken into account the BVLRA guidelines 
and the MBFS vehicle returns standards. Having done so, Im satisfied that the damage falls 
outside of acceptable wear and tear. The investigator has explained in detail why the 
damage is outside of the relevant guidelines and I agree with that analysis. 
In relation to mileage, I can see that Mr M returned the car with 14,000 miles used of the 
20,000 allowance. I understand the point that Mr M makes about this. However, theres 
nothing in the agreement or relevant guidelines which providers for damage charges to be 
offset against unused mileage allowance.
For the reasons Ive given, Im of the view that the damage charges have been fairly applied 
and there are no grounds for me to ask MBFS to waive these or to offset against unused 
mileage allowance.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman