DRN-3471708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs G are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2015, Mr and Mrs G were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs G decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In February 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Gs behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs G to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,559 to mislead Mr and Mrs G, as 
when the interest was added the total cost was actually £18,385;
the system would pay for itself after nine years;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments;
the system would not require any maintenance during its 25-year lifespan (but in fact 
the inverter would probably have to be replaced at least once in that period).
Shawbrook said that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs G or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view, and pointed out that it would actually take 
17 years for the system to pay for itself  which was longer than the loan term.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs G could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case. In this case, only P and Mr G 
are named in the contract as parties, and Mrs G is not, so only Mr G can have a claim 
against P for misrepresentation, or against Shawbrook under section 75.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs G and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook. Since both Mr G and Mrs G were parties to the loan agreement, they both have 
rights under section 56.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Gs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs G, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Gs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.Cost of the system
Mr and Mrs G have said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,559.25, and that 
this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan and so hid the true cost of the system, £18,385.20.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were told that the overall cost of the system was 
£18,385.20. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement, 
which makes it clear that the cash price of the system is £9,559.25. It sets out a clear 
breakdown of the deposit (nil), the amount of credit provided (£9,559.25), the total charge for 
credit (£8,825.95), the monthly payments (£102.14), and the total amount repayable, which 
was expressly stated to be £18,385.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Gs recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr and Mrs G more than the cash 
price as they had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs G have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Gs recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs G could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs G could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £497.07, which results in an average monthly income of £41.42. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £102.14. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs G were told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs G could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £323.85 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs G, the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £974. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs G entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £102.14. For each year of the 15 year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £102.14, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for the first four years of the loan, meaning that the system 
would not make enough money to cover the loan payments until year five.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs G could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs G werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Gs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs G that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr G, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs G were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 20 
years. This shows that it would take 9 years for the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs G could 
expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.I think the 9-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on page 
2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This shows that during year 14 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs G could expect 
to receive would reach the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £18,385.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs G that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced Mr G to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 17 years for the system to pay for the 
loan. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr G.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,239 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Gs meter readings and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 3,245 kWh a year. This is almost exactly what was estimated by P 
at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of 
kWh.
I have also considered why the system is not performing as well as expected in terms of 
pounds sterling. I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption 
rate, expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation 
increase. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs G havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs G could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr G entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mrs J that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell her during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and may require 
your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr G to enter 
into the contract for the system, or to induce Mr G and Mrs G to enter into the loan 
agreement, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman