DRN-3142371
The complaint
Mr C is represented. His initial complaint was about Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) 
facilitating a liberation related transfer from his SWL pension in 2015 without proper due 
diligence and without safeguarding his interests (by warning him about the risk of the 
transfer being a scam). After the transfer the pension scheme (the Incartus Pension scheme) 
became inaccessible/illiquid and has been suspected of being a pension liberation scheme. 
He complained in 2019 and he held SWL responsible for redressing his position. 
SWL upheld the complaint in 2020 and offered redress to reinstate his SWL pension and the 
accrued benefits within it (with any required revaluation adjustments). It also offered/paid him 
a total of £500 for the trouble and upset the matter had caused him (and for the time it took 
to address his complaint).
Mr C disagrees with the redress offered by SWL. He wants an alternative  a financial 
compensation lump sum to cover the total value of redress for the transfer and his 
costs/expenses (including the anticipated costs of financial advice in selecting a new 
pension provider). He seeks this alternative compensation also because he says he has lost 
trust and confidence in SWL so he does not want a reinstated SWL pension.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld as presented by Mr C (in his claim for alternative compensation), but that SWL 
had to update its offer and pay more for trouble and upset. In the main, she said:
The substance and merit in the complaint has already been resolved because SWL 
conceded and upheld the complaint, so the matter to address is mainly the dispute 
over redress.
The redress proposed by SWL is fair and reasonable. If this service had determined 
and upheld the complaint, we too would have applied the same basis for 
compensation  that is, reinstatement of Mr Cs SWL pension with any required 
revaluation adjustments. It is a basis for redress that puts Mr C into the position he 
would be in had the 2015 transfer not happened.
However, there has been a considerable lack of engagement by SWL with Mr C 
since it upheld his complaint (and since its redress offer) in August 2020. It promised 
to contact him about arranging the reinstatement but did not do so, despite enquiries 
from Mr Cs representative in October, November and December 2020. The pension 
is yet to be reinstated, due to what SWL says was human error. As such, SWL 
should arrange and put in place the pension reinstatement (with an update to any 
required revaluation) as soon as possible and should pay Mr C an addition £500 for 
the stress and inconvenience caused to him by SWLs delay.
SWL accepted this outcome. Mr Cs representative confirmed his disagreement with the 
outcome and his request for an ombudsmans decision if the investigator retained her view. 
He maintained his claim for the alternative compensation, as opposed to reinstatement of 
the pension. His representative said this would be a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of the complaint because  
Reinstatement of the SWL pension would not achieve the aim of putting Mr C in the 
position he would have been in but for the transfer. The transfer and events 
thereafter have changed his position in ways that cannot be reversed by the 
reinstatement only  but those changes can be covered by lump-sum compensation.
One such change is the total cost incurred by Mr C in having specialist advice and 
representation for his pension problem/complaint. Another is the total anticipated 
costs he is likely to incur, following a reinstatement, in getting advice to transfer his 
pension away from SWL  as he does not trust SWL and would not wish to retain his 
pension there. Neither of these will be redressed by reinstatement of the pension and 
it would be unfair if they are not redressed.
Reinstatement of the pension may have adverse tax implications.
SWLs failures in the transfer matter  could have resulted in vulnerability or 
exacerbated existing vulnerability for Mr C. He could be left in a vulnerable state if 
he is not awarded compensation to meet his costs (the financial commitments he 
entered into as a result of SWLs failures).
Based on all the above, reinstatement alone would breach Principle 6 of the 
regulators Principles for firms, as SWL would not be treating him fairly in his best 
interests if its redress does not also cover the matters above.
The investigator did not change her view. She discussed costs with the representative during 
a telephone call. She put it to the representative that Mr Cs complaint could have been 
pursued without representation, so it would not be fair to recover the cost of that from SWL; 
and that taking financial advice would always be sensible for a pension arrangement 
[whether a transfer or a lump-sum]. The investigator gave Mr Cs representative a copy of 
the redress wording this service would expect for his case and invited him to consider that 
the contents cover the points that have been raised for him. She also noted that there had 
been no prior reference to him being in a vulnerable state and she asked for more 
information about this and about how any such vulnerability would be impacted by 
reinstatement of his SWL pension. It does not appear that the representative replied to this. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion set out by the investigator for the same 
reasons, I endorse her findings and incorporate them into this decision. 
I do not uphold Mr Cs claim for alternative compensation, but I conclude that SWL needs to 
update (and add to) its total compensation offer as I set out below. As the investigator said, 
the matter of substance/merit in the complaint has already been resolved. SWL accepts 
responsibility for the 2015 transfer and it accepts responsibility to make good on Mr Cs 
position  that is, to put him in the position he would be in had the transfer not happened. 
That position is what Mr C lost in this case and its reinstatement is what he should 
reasonably expect from his successful complaint. He cannot reasonably expect to be put in 
an entirely new position or in a potentially better position. 
The position Mr C lost was that of an SWL pension holder. The 2015 transfer happened from 
an SWL pension that he held at the time and not from an isolated cash lump-sum, so 
redress based only on a cash lump-sum would put him in a different position. The SWL 
pension was devoid of additional values that represented the total costs for pursuing his 
complaint or the total costs he anticipates incurring in getting advice to transfer to a new provider. The pension mainly had its transfer value at the time. Redress that is inclusive of 
values for such costs will inevitably put him in a better position and that would be neither fair 
nor reasonable. If he disagrees and says the added values are solely to treat his costs, and 
are not added compensation, I address those costs next.
If Mr C and his representative seek to argue that, in the alternative, costs can be viewed as 
a separate and addition matter (separate and additional to the updated and revalued lump-
sum pension compensation) two key points arise  
This service does not award costs as standard; the complaints we receive do not 
require representation and many do not have representation; we investigate and 
resolve them regardless of whether (or not) they have representation; representation 
appears to have been even more surplus to requirements in Mr Cs case given that 
SWL already upheld his complaint in August 2020, so only a fair and reasonable 
basis for redress  which this service is very accustomed to determining  appears to 
have been the issue in dispute since.
As the investigator suggested, should Mr C maintain his stance that he no longer 
wants an SWL pension, taking financial advice on the pension arrangement he 
proceeds with would be a sensible step  and this would apply regardless of whether 
it is a transfer of an existing pension or an initiation of a pension with a lump-sum. As 
such, I am not persuaded that the notion of a pension reinstatement (and a potential 
transfer thereafter) makes a difference, in terms of cost of advice, to his setting up of 
a non-SWL pension arrangement.
Mr Cs representative has referred to adverse tax implications a pension reinstatement may 
have but, other than a suggestion about HMRCs annual allowance, he has not referred to 
what those specific implications are. The redress wording the investigator presented  which 
I repeat below  has provisions to safeguard Mr Cs position in terms of tax liabilities 
potentially arising from the transfer matter. In addition, SWLs redress offer is essentially to 
reinstate his pension position, as though the 2015 transfer did not happen, so it is implicit 
within this that  with regards to the pension  he must not be placed in a better or worse 
state; and it is equally implicit that he must face no adverse tax implications from the 
reinstatement that he would not have faced if the 2015 transfer did not happen.
There appears to have been no response to the investigators enquiries about the 
vulnerability mentioned by Mr Cs representative. Without information about this, it cannot be 
considered further  and it is not the type of matter that should be considered hypothetically. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above (and in the investigators view(s)) I am 
satisfied that SWLs pension reinstatement redress offer to Mr C is fair and reasonable and I 
do not accept that the offer breaches Principle 6. 
However, I too must note the lack of engagement by SWL with Mr C since it upheld his 
complaint and made its redress offer. As a result of that, and if this decision is accepted by 
Mr C, the calculations and execution of the pension reinstatement redress must be brought 
up to date (up to the date of this decision). 
In addition, the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused to Mr C by SWLs lack of 
engagement with him during the relevant period must be compensated for and I agree with 
the investigators finding that an additional payment of £500  in addition to SWLs initial 
£500 offer  must be made by SWL to Mr C to compensate for this. It appears that the initial 
£500 that was offered has already been paid to him, if that is not the case then the total 
presently due to him will be £1,000, but if the initial offer has already been paid then he is 
presently due only the additional £500.SWL should ensure that its approach towards the pension reinstatement redress offer it has 
made to Mr C is consistent with my statement about Fair Compensation below.
Fair compensation
SWLs aim should be to put Mr C as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if SWL had treated him fairly.
The Incartus Investments Pension Scheme only seems to have been used in order for Mr C 
to make an investment that he would not have made but for SWLs actions. Otherwise, Mr C 
would have remained in his pension plan with SWL and would not have transferred to the 
Incartus Investments Pension Scheme. There does not appear to be any reason why Mr C 
needed a pension arrangement that was not privately held, administered by an established 
insurance company and under FCA regulation. I do not think it is appropriate for further 
compensation to be paid into the Incartus Investments Pension Scheme. 
I understand that a value for the Incartus Investments Pension Scheme is unlikely to be 
available as the position of the investments made by the former trustees is uncertain. To 
compensate Mr C fairly, SWL should determine the notional value of the policy Mr C formerly 
held with it, assuming it had continued running up to the date of this final decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Mr C received directly 
from the Incartus Investments Pension Scheme  which would have been permitted under 
the tax rules (and are therefore not being treated as incentives below) should be treated 
as notional withdrawals from SWL on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease to take 
part in the calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
In addition, SWL must reimburse Mr C for any unauthorised payment tax charges that have 
been levied against him personally by HMRC. And it must also indemnify Mr C against any 
such charges arising in future as a result of unauthorised payments deemed to have been 
made before the date of this final decision.
SWL may also ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to do either of the following, when the 
value of his entitlement under the Incartus Investments Pension Scheme has been 
finalised:
-Make a full transfer of his entitlement back out of the Incartus Investments Pension 
Scheme to SWLs pension plan. SWL may then recover that value from its pension 
plan so that Mr C isnt overcompensated. Or, if this isnt possible:
-Withdraw the proceeds of his entitlement from the Incartus Investments Pension 
Scheme  as tax-free cash and income payments over a period of time agreed 
between SWL and Mr C, so that the net amount Mr C receives can be returned to 
SWL and he is not overcompensated.
SWL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If SWL asks Mr C to 
provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
SWL must also pay Mr C an additional £500 for it delays, since August 2020, in arranging 
the pension reinstatement it promised Mr C at the time.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr C in a clear, simple format.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs claim for alternative compensation, but 
Scottish Widows Limited must update (with any required revaluation adjustment) its pension 
reinstatement redress offer to him (as set out above) and it must pay him an additional £500 
for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman