DRN-2836883
The complaint
Mrs W complains that U K Insurance Limited should meet her claim on a home insurance
policy.
 
What happened
Mrs W had a home insurance policy. It had a buildings section and a home emergency
section.
UKI was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include
claims-handlers and others for whose actions I hold UKI responsible.
In November 2020, Mrs W had a new central heating boiler installed. In early January 2021,
the boiler lost water pressure. Mrs W and her husband were left with no central heating or
hot water.
A home emergency plumber said there was a leak from a central heating pipe under the
solid floor of the hallway to kitchen area. There was an option to trace the leak and to dig up
the floor to get access for a repair. Another option was to install new pipe on a different route
above floor level.
Mrs W asked UKI if it would pay for such re-routing. At first, UKI said it would cover those
costs and Mrs W should send it the invoice. But it then said it wouldnt cover such costs
because the leak hadnt caused any damage.
Mrs W had already booked her plumber. And she needed to get the central heating back on.
She says the re-routing cost over £2,000.00.
Mrs W first contacted us in mid-January 2021.By a final response dated 20 January 2021,
UKI said it was paying £175.00 compensation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that UKI
initially gave false information by mistake. He thought that the compensation was a fair
amount and in line with what we would award for this kind of error.
my (first) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W
and to UKI on 29 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
UKI shouldve told Mrs W how much of the £500.00 home emergency limit had been
used up  and how much was still available to meet the central heating emergency.
Subject to any further information from Mrs W or from UKI, my provisional decision was to
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct U K Insurance Limited to:
1. tell Mrs W its outlay on the home emergency in January 2021; and
2. pay her the balance between that outlay and the limit of £500.00; and
3. pay her simple interest on that balance at the yearly rate of 8% from 18 January 
2021 to the date of payment. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much 
its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my (second) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mrs W and to UKI on 4 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
UKI had told us that its outlay on the home emergency in January 2021 was £194.95. 
The balance between that and the limit of £500.00 is £305.05.
Subject to any further information from Mrs W or from UKI, my provisional decision was to
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W:
1. £305.05 towards her costs of resolving the home central heating emergency; and
2. simple interest on £305.05 at the yearly rate of 8% from 18 January 2021 to the
date of payment. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off.
It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mrs W agreed with the (second) provisional decision. But she says, in summary, that:
She may have preferred re-routing for many reasons, but 2 people reviewing her 
claim / initial complaint immediately just before work was done told her quite 
definitely that she didnt qualify for the track and trace option on her 5 star policy 
which should have covered most things .The only option was the home emergency, 
who didnt fix anything.
The pipe was underground so little choice. She was told initially that home 
emergency had to come, before any track and trace would be considered even 
though it wouldnt have been within £500.00 cost to access & repair everything, she  
had spoken on one of the calls and asked to send trace and access and save cost of 
home emergency but that wasnt allowed. Then the decision was not to cover trace 
and access so the money they spent on initial home emergency call out was a waste 
of their money. 
She and her husband paid what they had to to get warm and hot water.
UKI doesnt agree with the (second) provisional decision.it says, in summary, that:
The Home Emergency section page 30 of the policy booklet says; We won't pay:
* to replace your main source of heating
In its opinion, the extra works required to get the heating working again fall within this 
exclusion.
The works required were extensive and fall outside the £500.00 policy limit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From UKIs file, I see that the policy was renewed for a year from April 2019.
Ive seen policy booklets with the references CHHE PB 0916 and CHHE PB 0319. Ive also
seen a mention of a policy booklet with the reference CHHE PB 0120. I conclude that the
numbers are dates of publication. So the policy booklet with the reference 0319 was
published in March 2019 and applied from the policy renewal in April 2019.
The policy terms contained a definition of buildings which included pipes and cables.
In response to the second provisional decision, UKI has pointed out that the home 
emergency section has the following exclusion:
 We won't pay:

* to replace your main source of heating
But the policy terms contain a definition of main source of heating as follows:
Main source of heating (section 5) The main hot water or central heating system 
in your home including:
 one domestic boiler
 any controls forming part of the boiler
 the programmer, central heating pump, hot water cylinder, room thermostat and 
radiators.
But not:
 any form of underfloor heating, solar heating system or warm-air heating system
 any non-domestic boiler and associated system
 any boiler with an output of over 70kw
 any secondary or other boiler
 oil-fired and solid fuel systems
 open fires
 solar heating or air-conditioning units.
So the main source of heating means the whole of any central heating system (subject to 
the exclusions such as underfloor heating). Therefore the exclusion that UKI wouldnt pay to 
replace the main source of heating meant that it wouldnt pay to replace the whole central 
heating system. The exclusion didnt mean that UKI wouldnt pay to replace part of the 
central heating system.
The home emergency section included cover for a central heating emergency. But that was
subject to a limit of £500.00.The buildings section had a much higher limit. It also included the following terms:
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by

 Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems
We also cover water or oil escaping from:
 underground drains and pipes
 domestic appliances
 storage tanks.

 We dont cover:

 tanks, pipes, appliances or heating systems themselves
 costs to remove and replace any part of the buildings to find and repair the source
of any water or oil leaks. However, you may have cover under the Trace and Access
section below

 Trace and Access
We will also pay up to £10,000 to remove and replace any part of the buildings to:
 find the source of any water or oil escaping from tanks, pipes, appliances or fixed
heating systems that is causing damage to the buildings
I accept that the central heating pipe under the floor was damaged. But I find that the
damaged pipe caused the escape of water. I dont find that the escape of water caused the
damaged pipe. And - from the photographs and from what the plumber said  I find that the
escape of water from the pipe was stopped before it caused any damage to the floor
coverings or to the floor.
So I dont find that the escape of water caused damage to the pipe or to any other part of the
buildings.
From what shes said, I find that Mrs W didnt want any digging to remove part of the floor in
the hallway to kitchen area to trace and access the leak. She preferred the alternative of
cutting-off the leaking pipe and installing new pipework to the ground-floor radiators.
That alternative was a long way short of replacing the whole central heating system. For 
example, there was no need to replace the new central heating boiler. So UKI is clearly 
incorrect in its recent suggestion that the extra works required to get the heating working 
again fall within the exclusion of the replacement of the main source of heating.
The cost of the alternative of installing new pipework was beyond the home emergency limit 
of £500.00. And that alternative wasnt an exercise in finding the source of the leak. So the 
buildings section of the policy didnt cover that alternative. UKI was wrong to tell Mrs W it did. 
But that mistake doesnt change the terms of the policy.
Ive thought about the mistake and the impact it had on Mrs W. I consider that she did have
a short opportunity to cancel her plumber for the next day. So I dont find that the mistake
caused her any financial loss. But I dont doubt that she was upset when UKI said it had
made a mistake.
Ive thought about how much compensation I wouldve found fair and reasonable for the
distress and inconvenience the mistake caused  if UKI hadnt made its payment of £175.00.
Ive concluded that I wouldve awarded £175.00 or slightly less. So Im satisfied that UKIspayment was fair and reasonable.
However, I dont agree that  when UKI said it wouldnt cover the costs of re-routing  the
emergency had already been resolved. The emergency plumber had resolved the escape of
water  but he hadnt resolved the lack of central heating and hot water. So I consider that
Mrs W still had a home central heating emergency.
Therefore I find that UKI shouldve told Mrs W how much of the £500.00 home emergency
limit had been used up  and how much was still available to meet the central heating
emergency. I consider that UKI shouldve contributed that balance towards Mrs Ws costs of
instructing her plumber to do the re-routing.
Putting things right
As it has told us that its outlay on the home emergency in January 2021 was £194.95
(and as the balance between that and the limit of £500.00 is £305.05) I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mrs W £305.05.
As shes been out of pocket since about 18 January 2021, I will direct UKI to add interest at 
our usual rate.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W:
1. £305.05 towards her costs of resolving the home central heating emergency; and
2. simple interest on £305.05 at the yearly rate of 8% from 18 January 2021 to the 
date of payment. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off.
It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman