DRN-2385709
The complaint
Mr O complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined a claim he made under a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O has previously suffered from issues with his eyes. This included, amongst other things, 
detached retinas in both eyes, and he had several cataract surgeries on his right eye. This 
included implanting a lens on this eye. Mr O says these were declared to AXA when he took 
out the policy.
Mr O had cataract surgery on his left eye in May 2019. This was covered under the policy 
with AXA. Mr O says this led to a severe imbalance between his eyes and created a double 
vision which hadnt existed previously. He says this needed to be corrected so hed be able 
to function properly in his day to day life.
So, Mr O had surgery on his right eye to rectify the imbalance in July 2019. This involved 
replacing the lens which had been implanted as part of the previous cataract surgery on that 
eye. Mr O says that the imbalance and the need for surgery on his right eye was something 
the surgeon had anticipated  so he says the two operations should be considered as one 
claim.
AXA says the treatment on the right eye was for anisometropia, and this relates to treatment 
regarding a refractive inequality in the eyes. AXA declined Mr Os claim by saying the policy 
doesnt cover correcting refractive errors.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think AXA had done anything wrong 
by declining the claim because the policy didnt cover treatment of refractive errors or any 
treatment to correct long or short-sightedness.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators findings. He doesnt agree that the surgery was to 
correct a refractive error. He also noted that the surgeon had said Mr O hadnt been served 
well by the past surgery on his right eye, and the best chance of correcting the imbalance 
was to carry out surgery on that eye again. Mr O says the imbalance was created by the 
earlier cataract surgery on the right eye, and the cataract surgery on his left eye in 
May 2019.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA hasnt said the operation on Mr Os right eye wasnt necessary. And its clear from the 
surgeons report that the imbalance needed to be corrected. But AXA has said the treatment 
for this wasnt covered. The relevant exclusion on the policy says the following:
We do not pay for: [] 
(t) Any treatment of refractive errors. 
(u) Any treatment to correct long or short-sightedness.
The policy defines treatment as surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
So, I need to decide if AXA has fairly relied on the exclusion when it said the treatment was 
for a refractive error. Having considered everything, I think it has. Ill explain why.
I fully accept that the imbalance in Mr Os eyes happened as a result of the surgery on his 
left eye on May 2019. And I accept the imbalance needed to be corrected. But based on 
everything Ive seen, the treatment on his right eye was for a refractive error.
I can see the surgeon confirmed that there was a huge anisometropia between Mr Os right 
and left eye, and no one could use their eyes together with such a difference. He also said 
the right lens implant needed removing, and the astigmatism needed reducing to have better 
vision and to be able to balance the two eyes.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr O required treatment on his right eye for any other 
reason  for example due to a new cataract. The treatment was simply to correct a refractive 
error  even when it included replacing the previous lens. In other words, had there been no 
surgery on the left eye, there wouldnt have been a need to have surgery on the right eye.
Mr O has also argued that exactly because the surgeries are linked, they should be 
considered as one. But that doesnt change the fact that the treatment on the right eye was 
for a refractive error, which isnt covered under the policy.
Taking everything into account, I dont think AXA has unfairly declined Mr Os claim for his 
right eye.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman