DRN-3879151
The complaint
Mr P complains about a fee HSBC bank plc (HSBC) charged when making a transfer. He 
would like the fee refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I dont agree with Mr P that HSBC used the wrong code to make the payment for him 
resulting in the payment going through intermediary bank. The payment did go 
through. Had HSBC used the wrong code I dont believe it would have done so.
It seems from the information provided three intermediary banks were involved in the 
payment in question. HSBCs terms and conditions state that when money is sent 
outside of the UK intermediaries may make charges which is what I believe 
happened here along with a £5 charge HSBC did make. However, as HSBC would 
have no control over intermediary charges it wouldnt have been able to advise Mr P 
of the exact costs at the time.
Mr P has told us he asked for charges to be debited to avoid intermediary charges by 
which I assume he means the charges taken from his account. But he hasnt 
evidenced this so I cant be sure what he told HSBC. HSBC  has confirmed Mr P 
opted to share charges meaning that the charges would be deducted from the 
recipients payment. It has also confirmed that ,as Mr P transferred the full balance of 
the account, there would have been insufficient funds for Mr P to cover any charges 
from his account if that is what he wanted.
As, other than the £5 charge HSBC made the rest of the charges were made by 
intermediary banks I dont think I can reasonably ask HSBC to refund these charges 
as Mr P would like as I havent found HSBC to have done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman