DRN-2945911
The complaint
Mr J and Mr L complain because they were unable to contact TICORP Limited to add travel 
disruption extension (TDE) cover to their travel insurance policy.  
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and Ive referred to TICORP throughout my 
decision. 
What happened
Mr J and Mr L held an annual travel insurance policy, which was purchased and renewed 
through TICORP.
At 14.06 on 12 March 2020, Mr J received an email from TICORP offering him the option to 
add TDE to his and Mr Ls policy. The email said TICORP was experiencing an 
unprecedented demand for people to talk to it, so the best way to add an option to an 
existing policy would be online. 
Mr J says he attempted to contact TICORP about adding TDE to the policy between 12 
March 2020 and 19 March 2020 both via its online chat function and by telephone. 
On 19 March 2020, TICORP sent Mr J an email to say he didnt have TDE with his original 
policy and it was no longer able to offer TDE to him, as the provider of the TDE had removed 
it as an optional extra from 11.59pm on 13 March 2020. TICORP sent Mr J a further email 
on 23 March 2020 outlining the criteria under which a claim for cancellation of a holiday due 
to Covid-19 would be considered. 
Mr J and Mr L were due to travel abroad in July 2020 but, unfortunately, their holiday was 
cancelled because of the pandemic. Mr J and Mr L tried to make a claim for the cost of their 
cancelled trip with the provider of their insurance, via TICORP. TICORP said, as Mr J and Mr 
L hadnt bought TDE, their claim was unlikely to be covered. 
Mr J and Mr L complained to TICORP, who said they didnt hold TDE and the option to add it 
had to be withdrawn because of the unprecedented demand at the time. TICORP sent Mr J 
and Mr L a £20 voucher which could be used against a future travel insurance policy as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
As Mr J and Mr L remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he thought TICORP 
should pay Mr J and Mr L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
suffered as a result of its failings.
Mr J and Mr L accepted our investigators opinion but TICORP didnt agree with the 
compensation figure recommended by our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant regulatory guidance set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
TICORP is the business who sold and renewed Mr J and Mr Ls policy, and it was the 
business who emailed Mr J offering them TDE. TICORP doesnt actually provide the cover 
under Mr J and Mr Ls policy and it doesnt decide whether claims should be paid  the 
underwriter of the policy does that. TICORP and the policy underwriter are two separate and 
distinct companies. Mr J and Mr L are complaining about their inability to purchase TDE, so I 
think TICORP is the correct business responsible for this complaint. 
There are several facts in this case which dont appear to be in dispute. These are:
the TDE provider sent an email to TICORP on the evening of 11 March 2020 asking 
it to stop selling TDE from 12 March 2020;
despite this, TICORP contacted Mr J and Mr L on the afternoon of 12 March 2020 
offering them the option to buy TDE;
the TDE provider subsequently reiterated its instructions for TICORP to stop selling 
TDE from midnight on 13 March 2020; 
TICORP didnt respond to Mr Js online chat message sent at 09.42 on 13 March 
2020 until 19 March 2020  by which time TICORP was no longer able to provide Mr 
J and Mr L with TDE. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied there were failings by TICORP in this case. It offered Mr J 
and Mr L TDE despite having been instructed by the provider not to do so and was then 
unable to meet customer demand, at a time when the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on 
foreign travel was starting to be felt. 
The question I need to decide is what I think TICORP should do to put things right. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
in the circumstances to ask TICORP to pay an amount equivalent to the value of Mr J and 
Mr Ls cancelled holiday. Although Mr J and Mr L were entitled to take TICORP up on the 
offer set out in its email of 12 March 2020, TICORP had no obligation to provide Mr J and Mr 
L with any particular type of travel insurance policy. It was up to Mr J and Mr L to ensure 
they had a travel insurance policy in place that met their needs at every annual renewal. And 
I dont think Mr J and Mr L did meet the criteria set out in TICORPs email of 23 March 2020 
for a claim to be considered, because Mr J and Mr L didnt purchase and werent ever able 
to purchase a policy with optional TDE. 
However, I think it would be fair and reasonable for TICORP to pay Mr J and Mr L 
compensation for the impact of what happened on them.
Mr J says, in addition to the online chat message he sent to TICORP on 13 March 2020, he 
also made several unsuccessful telephone calls to it between 12 March 2020 and 19 March 
2020. Mr J doesnt have any contemporaneous evidence of these calls and TICORP 
disputes that these calls happened. However, Im entitled to take a consumers testimony 
into account as evidence and Mr J has consistently said he made these telephone calls. I 
think his testimony is persuasive and I have no reason to doubt what he has said. TICORP 
says it cannot find evidence of any such contact on its systems but its not clear what 
number or numbers TICORP has searched for and/or whether calls would appear on its records in circumstances where Mr J says he was unable to get through to it. TICORP 
originally acknowledged that its queues were long and if Mr J had stayed on the line, he 
might have been able to add TDE.  
Overall, Im satisfied its likely that Mr J did make repeated attempts to contact TICORP and I 
also think its likely he would have purchased TDE if hed been able to get through and/or if 
TICORP had responded to him. Im satisfied that Mr Js inability to contact TICORP following 
its email of 12 March 2020 and TICORPs delay in responding to his message of 13 March 
2020 will have caused him frustration and inconvenience. 
In addition, I think at least part of Mr J and Mr Ls eventual claim may have been covered 
under TDE if they had been able to purchase it. Mr J and Mr L didnt book a package holiday 
 they booked flights for £543.92 and a non-refundable villa for £3990 separately. I think 
both Mr J and Mr L experienced disappointment and frustration when TICORP told them 
their claim was unlikely to be covered because they hadnt purchased TDE. 
Taking all these factors into account, as well as our published guidance on the payment of 
compensation for non-financial loss, I think it would be fair and reasonable for TICORP to 
pay Mr J and Mr L a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they both 
experienced. 
Putting things right
TICORP Limited needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr J and Mr L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr J and Mr Ls complaint against TICORP Limited in part and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman