DRN-3044484
Summary of complaint
Ms C has complained that Premier Financial Planning Ltd (Premier Financial) has charged 
her too much for ongoing wealth management services, and that she didnt use or require 
the majority of these services.
Background
Ms C and Premier Financial had an ongoing customer relationship prior to the events that 
form the basis of this complaint. However, the scope of this decision is limited to Ms Cs 
specific complaint about ongoing wealth management services linked to her pension fund 
consolidation in 2016. 
I understand Ms C signed a client agreement with Premier Financial in February 2016. 
Premier Financials recommendation to consolidate Ms Cs pension funds was issued in 
April 2016. Amongst the rationales for this advice, Premier Financial stated that the single 
plan that was recommended would provide automatic rebalancing within a governed 
portfolio. 
According to Premier Financials standard terms, it appears Ms C wouldve been subject to 
an initial charge of 2% for implementing advice for lump sums or transfers. However, the 
fee was reduced to 1%. The business has said that this reduction was due to the long-
standing customer relationship. An ongoing charge of 0.75% for wealth management 
services was also applied, which was a standard charge based on the investment value. As 
required, the documentation from the time set out these fees as percentages, and as the 
actual sums of money these percentages represented.
Annual review outcome and meeting summary letters were issued in June 2017, July 2018, 
and September 2019. These annual letters reiterated the cost of the wealth management 
service, again as a percentage and a cash sum.
In July 2020 Ms C informed Premier Financial that a new PAYE role meant she was 
cancelling her monthly contribution to the plan. Premier Financial responded with further 
questions about the new pension scheme in order to inform the review calculations.
Later that month Ms C contacted Premier Financial to complain about the 0.75% charge for 
ongoing wealth management services, saying she had received little or no benefit from this 
service. Ms C argued that, given what Premier Financial knew of her financial circumstances 
and the nature of her investment, it shouldve known this service would be of limited value to 
her and represented an unnecessary expense. Ms C also said had been given insufficient 
explanation and verbal clarification of important features of the service in 2016. 
In addition, Ms C raised several arguments relating to the quality of the ongoing wealth 
management service provided, including the regularity and timing of the annual review, and 
involvement in the annual rebalancing. 
Premier Financial initially offered an ongoing fee reduction to 0.5% (which Ms C rejected), 
but ultimately did not uphold Ms Cs complaint. It said that the costs were made clear in 
various documents provided to Ms C in 2016 and afterwards, and that Ms C couldve opted 
out of the ongoing service at any time. Furthermore, it said the 0.75% for ongoing wealth 
management services was good value and compared favourably to market prices. 
Premier Financial also said that usage of aspects of the service (for example accessing the 
website) was determined by customer choice, and that Ms C had been given all the access 
information necessary to engage with this, had she wanted to do so. It also said it had 
carried out annual reviews to the required standard.
As the two parties couldnt agree, Ms C brought her complaint to this service. I understand 
that Premier Financial has since made an offer of £500, which our investigator 
recommended Ms C accept in resolution of her complaint. However, Ms C didnt agree with 
the investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision. As such, the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has said in her complaint that she was led to believe that the wealth management 
service was an essential part of the management of the pensions product and that at no 
point was it disclosed to her that this ongoing service and associated fee were, in fact, 
optional. However, I note that email correspondence from March 2016 between Ms C and 
the Premier Financial adviser covers this very point. I can see the adviser has written, What 
is important is the service you choose, either transactional or wealth management, and has 
attached the terms of engagement to the email, which clearly sets out both service options. 
So I think its likely Ms C was aware that she had a choice at the time.
The terms of engagement also list the services included with each option. For the wealth 
management service these are stated as follows:
Full Ongoing Access to Support
Annual Statement
Annual Review
Annual Rebalancing
Ongoing Tax Planning
Annual Asset Allocation & Fund Review
Annual Review of Objectives
Quarterly Newsletters
Online Access to Personal Client Site
ImpulseSave
Ms C says she neither wanted nor needed many of these services. However, in my opinion, 
Ms C did rely on at least some of the services listed above, such as the annual review (the 
timings of which Ill go on to discuss in due course). These services were only available as a 
package, so paying a lower fee for a more limited set of services was not an option. The only 
alternative available to Ms C wouldve been to proceed on a transactional basis only, with no 
ongoing services at all, which I dont think wouldve met her needs.
As well as setting out the services provided, Im persuaded that the documentation made the 
cost clear  both in terms of the initial fee of 1% and the ongoing annual fund-based of 
0.75%. So, I think its most likely these charges were acceptable to Ms C at the time. Furthermore, in terms of value for money, I dont think the wealth management charges were 
excessive or unreasonable. I also note the initial transfer fee reduction seems to have been 
offered on the understanding of an ongoing customer relationship and so cannot be 
separated from any assessment of the overall value for money.
In addition to cost, Ms C has also complained that certain other facts were not verbally 
explained to her at the outset. Firstly, Ms C feels it shouldve been made clearer that 
administration charges could potentially be applied to process additional payments or 
contributions to her plan if she didnt use a financial adviser. However, this point is covered 
in the pension providers key facts document, which is intended to give customers a shorter 
and more accessible summary of the main features. In my view this is sufficient, and I dont 
agree that an additional verbal clarification of this point was also required.
Secondly, Ms C has noted that the rebalancing service was carried out by the pension 
provider rather than Premier Financial, which she believes supports her argument that 
Premier Financial were providing very little for their fee. However, it is common practice for 
the investment decisions required to ensure alignment with fund/portfolio risk objectives to 
be taken by the fund management firm itself. I understand Premier Financial explained they 
took an oversight role and carried out yearly due diligence, so I dont think Ms C was misled 
on this point.
Taking everything into account, I dont agree that Premier Financial acted incorrectly in 
recommending the ongoing wealth management service to Ms C, especially given the sum 
she was investing, or that they failed to provide her with enough information about the fees 
or other details for her to make an informed decision. As such, I have gone on to look at 
whether Ms C actually received the wealth management service she was paying for.
Ms C has told us that she never used many of the elements of the wealth management 
services package offered by Premier Financial. However, had she wished to do so, Ms C 
wouldve been able to make greater use of these services by accessing Premier Financials 
online client portal. It seems that the relevant access information was provided to her, and it 
was for Ms C to decide whether or not she wanted to engage with this.
Ms C has also said that the annual reviews were undertaken late, and that they shouldve 
occurred within a twelve-month period. It is true that the gaps between each review were in 
excess of twelve months. The first was undertaken in June 2017, the following year in July, 
and the year after in September. In 2020 I understand that the intention was to arrange the 
review by September, but Ms C asked to terminate the relationship prior to this date.
While I agree that it might be optimal to maintain a regular and consistent review schedule 
where possible, I dont think the timescales seen here demonstrate a failure to provide the 
annual review service that Ms C was entitled to. Ultimately, a review was undertaken each 
year, and it doesnt seem that a set month was ever agreed upon. Nor have I seen anything 
to suggest Ms C was disadvantaged by the timing of any of the reviews. So, in summary, I 
think Ms C received or was given access to the wealth management services she was 
paying for. 
Ms C has also made reference to a different case, which she feels covers a similar set of 
circumstances. However, each case is decided on its individual merits and Ms Cs complaint 
is the only case I can comment on in this decision.  
Having considered all aspects of Ms Cs complaint, Premier Financial has not acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in my view.My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint or asking Premier Financial Planning Ltd to pay Ms C any 
compensation. 
I note Premier Financial previously made an offer to pay Ms C £500 as a gesture of goodwill 
to settle this complaint. Ms C may now wish to take Premier Financial up on this offer, if it is 
still available.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
