The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a single premium 
PPI policy with a loan in November 1998, during a meeting.
What happened
In November 1998, Mr and Mrs C took out a loan for £6,000 which they had to repay over 84 
months. They also took out a single premium PPI policy, which, with interest, cost £1533.38. 
This was repayable over the term of the loan. Although it was a joint loan, only Mr C was 
covered under the PPI policy for disability, unemployment and life cover.
The paperwork from the time of sale showed that Mr C had been working for his current 
employer for around 3 months when the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Nationwide about the mis-sale of this policy. Nationwide didnt 
uphold their complaint, so they referred it to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. The adjudicator concluded that Mr C wasnt eligible to take out the PPI because he 
had not been in continuous employment for six months prior to taking it. Nationwide didnt 
agree, and so Mr and Mrs Cs complaint comes to me to consider.
What Ive decided - and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs C's 
complaint.
I dont think Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs C to buy the PPI policy. However, Nationwide 
still had a duty to give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether the 
policy was right for them and they wanted to buy it. Nationwide also had to present it in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading and to draw the main features of the policy to Mr 
and Mrs Cs attention.
Having looked at the terms of the policy, like our adjudicator, I think Mr C probably wasnt 
eligible to take out the policy at the time it was sold to him. This was because he didnt meet 
the employment criteria for the policy on the date it started. The policy required Mr C to have 
been in continuous employment for six months.
I say this because Mr and Mrs Cs application form showed, at the time, Mr C had been 
employed for around three months by his current employer. During a phone call with our 
service, Mr C said that prior to starting this job in August 1998, he had been unemployed for 
DRN-1724876a few months. Mr C said he was working in New York in November 1997. He said he was 
back and forth between the New York and UK offices. He said he went back to the New York 
office for one week in early January 1998, he then returned and went on a holiday and after 
this he was unemployed until he started work for the employer listed on the application form, 
in August 1998.
Nationwide pointed out that during a telephone call with Mrs C about the sale of the PPI, Mrs 
C told Nationwide that Mr C was in six months continuous employment, without a break, 
before he took out the PPI. Mr C said Mrs C was mistaken about this.
Nationwide also referred us to its underwriters notes, made at the time of sale, as proof of 
Mr C being in continuous employment.
Ive looked carefully at these notes. I also asked Nationwide for a clearer copy as the copy 
we were sent was copied in such a way that the far right hand side of the text had been cut 
off. Nationwide said that a clearer copy was no longer available.
The underwriters notes made at the time of events, amongst other things, recorded this 
about Mr Cs circumstances 
In India/New York 1991 -19 [rest is cut off]
J1 is perm, has contract
J2 [employer name], New York
J3 [employer name], India 
JB J2 [employer name for J3 employer given] in India 3 yrs
I also note that during the telephone call with Mrs C mentioned above, Nationwide asked 
Mrs C to recall their circumstances at three different times, in 1998, 1999 and 2004. It also 
specifically asked her about Mr Cs health, it said because of a note in its records stating that 
Mr C had had a stroke whilst abroad between 1991 and 1995. Nationwide said that during 
that call, Mrs C was adamant that Mr C had not had a stroke and they were both in very 
good health.
When asked about his health by us, Mr C said he had no pre-existing health conditions at 
the time of sale.
In summary, Nationwide say that given the inconsistency in the information provided by Mr 
and Mrs C about Mr Cs employment circumstances, without more, it wouldnt be reasonable 
to find that Mr C wasnt in continuous employment for the six months before, particularly 
given what the underwriters notes showed and Mrs C said.
As some of the evidence here is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made a decision on 
what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Firstly, I'm not satisfied that the underwriters notes show that more likely Mr C was in 
continuous employment for the six months prior to the PPI being sold. The end date for 
when he said he was in India and New York has been cut off, so this doesn't clarify the 
position.Ive proceeded on the basis that "J2" and "J3" in the underwriters notes means Job 2 and 
Job 3. J2 refers to an employer in New York and J3, an employer in India. Later in the note 
JB J2 refers to the employer in India. I think this is likely to be a mistake.
I note also that Nationwide said its internal notes showed that Mr C had a stroke whilst 
abroad between 1991 and 1995. I cant see any reference to this in the underwriters notes 
Ive been given. So, Nationwide may be referring to different records that Ive not seen. But, 
in any event, I think it likely that this information was incorrect. Both Mr and Mrs C fairly 
confirmed that Mr C had not had a stroke and had no pre-existing health conditions. Had  Mr 
C have had a pre-existing health condition, its possible that the policy wouldnt have been 
appropriate for him and this may have been a reason for upholding this complaint.
The information Mr C gave our adjudicator about his overseas work, is not inconsistent with 
what is recorded in note form in Nationwides underwriters notes. Mr C told us that Mrs C 
was mistaken when she said hed been in continuous employment throughout the periods 
that Nationwide discussed with her. On balance, I think it more likely that what Mr Cs told us 
about his circumstances at the time, can reasonably be relied on. He has been clear and 
consistent with what he has told us. And I find his account plausible given the way in which 
he has gone about fairly providing this service with information about his circumstances at 
the time. I think it probable that when Nationwide spoke to Mrs C she made a genuine 
mistake in her recall of his circumstances from many years before. As is evident from 
Nationwides own records, genuine mistakes can sometimes be made when recording or 
recalling circumstances.
So, overall, I think Mr C probably wasnt eligible to take out the PPI at the time of sale.  I 
think he ended up taking out a policy which he wouldnt have taken, if he had been given 
clearer information. I say this because he wouldnt have been covered under the policy, so I 
think he has lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. They paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more to repay the 
loan than it wouldve. So Mr and Mrs C need to get back the extra theyve paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs C the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI. 
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs C paid from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to put things right 
as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman