DRN-1896561
The complaint
Mr Ks unhappy with the actions of Ageas Insurance Limited, trading as Back Me Up, when 
he claimed on his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr K claimed on his phone insurance policy to get a cracked screen 
repaired. Mr K was asked to get a report to confirm the full extent of the damage, but he 
didnt think this was written in his policy terms, or something he really expected to have to 
do. So, he challenged this with Ageas. They said often with claims of this nature the damage 
is more extensive, so theyre just asking for an inspection report. Mr K says because of this 
he was forced to go to the manufacturers shop and ask for this kind of report. He says the 
shop told him they couldnt just do an inspection  but they could provide this as part of a 
repair service they offered. And if there was more damage than just the cracked screen the 
only step theyd be able to take was to swap out the phone. Mr K says to do what Ageas had 
asked, he agreed to this, the shop found further damage, and he paid £319 to swap out the 
handset. He submitted a claim for this, but Ageas said they wouldnt pay the full amount, so 
he complained.
Ageas replied to the complaint and said theyd only asked Mr K to get an inspection report  
and he went ahead with a replacement without them confirming a settlement figure. Ageas 
said under his policy terms Mr K was only entitled to a refurbished handset, and theyd found 
one for £149.99. So, after deducting the excess of £50 they paid Mr K £99.99.
Unhappy with this Mr K asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but felt 
Ageas hadnt acted unreasonably in asking Mr K to get an independent inspection report, 
and felt theyd offered a fair amount under the policy terms.
Mr K didnt accept this. He said our investigator didnt consider the insurers obligations on 
treating customers fairly, or that the insurer asked him to do things not required in the policy 
terms. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has said its not written in the policy terms that he has to get an inspection report. Ive 
been through the policy terms he bought, and I agree its not. In this situation I need to 
decide if I think Ageas have acted fairly taking into account all the circumstances. For the 
reasons Ill go on to explain I think they have.
Its clear from what Mr K has said he feels like hes been asked to do things he shouldnt 
have to do, and is frustrated at the situation he finds himself in. Ageas have said its part of 
their normal process when someone is claiming for a cracked screen to get an independent 
inspection report  as sometimes theres more damage than just the screen.
Its not for me to determine what Ageas processes should be, but rather assess the impact 
of those on Mr K. It turned out when Mr K did take his phone to be inspected there was 
significantly more damage. So, it appears Ageas reasons for wanting the phone to be 
inspected were fair. I appreciate Mr Ks comments that this isnt written in the policy, but I 
dont think that itself means it was inappropriate for Ageas to ask him to do this. 
In relation to the claim itself when Mr K was at the shop he was essentially told the only thing 
the shop could do was replace the phone at a cost of £319. Mr K paid this, and then asked 
Ageas to meet this claim. But, looking at the information he was given, he was only asked to 
get an inspection report to determine the extent of the damage. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Ageas agreed to pay for a replacement phone at this point.
And the policy terms do set out how theyd cover Mr K when hes got a cracked screen. The 
policy says theyll pay for replacement or repair of the screen  and if thats not possible, 
then one of the options is theyll pay for a refurbished phone.
Ageas have demonstrated they could have got Mr K a comparable phone for £149.99. I think 
this is in line with the policy terms of what theyd expect to pay out  and as Mr K went 
ahead with paying for a replacement phone, without agreement from Ageas, I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly in settling his claim for this amount less the £50 excess.
So, taking everything into account I dont think theyve treated Mr K unfairly by asking him to 
get an inspection report, and I think theyve turned down the claim fairly under the policy 
terms.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman