DRN-1966952
 
The complaint
Mr G has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). He isnt happy about the 
cancellation of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G was insured with UKI for a number of years, but it cancelled his insurance when he told 
it his son was moving back home and that he had a criminal conviction. UKI said that it didnt 
offer insurance cover in these circumstances.
So Mr G complained to UKI and then this service. Our investigator looked into things for him 
but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he sympathised with Mr G, as he hadnt done 
anything wrong, he explained that he couldnt tell UKI who it could or couldnt insure. And 
UKI had shown it wouldnt cover Mr G as there was someone in the house with a criminal 
conviction which it was allowed to do. 
As Mr G didnt agree, as he felt it was unfair and that hed paid UKI a lot of money over the 
years, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr G is unhappy about his policy being cancelled. He was a 
longstanding customer of UKI and had acted honestly in updating UKI about a change in 
circumstances and the fact his son had a criminal record. It was clearly upsetting for him to 
be told it was cancelling his policy. But that doesnt mean UKI has done anything wrong.
Ive looked at UKIs underwriting criteria and the fact that Mr Gs son, who lives at the risk 
address, has a criminal conviction means it isnt prepared to offer cover. As the investigator 
explained, I cant tell UKI (or any insurer) what risks it can and cant consider as this service 
doesnt interfere with an insurers commercial decisions. Importantly, UKI isnt treating Mr G 
differently to anyone else and anyone in the same position as Mr G would be treated the 
same. So it hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling his policy as it is simply 
unable to provide cover.
I know Mr G feels this isnt fair and that he has paid premiums for a number of years and not 
made a claim. But UKI has provided cover and reassurance each year he was insured. So 
although I can understand why he feels let down I cant say it has done anything wrong. UKI 
has simply followed its underwriting criteria in deciding it can no longer offer cover.
So, despite my natural sympathy for Mr G, Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman