DRN-3213111
The complaint
Mr J complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mr J approached Portal in 2013 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. The 
information gathered by Portal about Mr J at the time was broadly as follows:
Mr J was 48 years old living with his wife and two children in a mortgaged property. 
They had no other debts.
Mr J earned approximately £22,000 (gross) a year. Mrs J earned £20,000 (gross). 
They were said to have disposable income of around £200 per month.
Mr J was a deferred member of his OPS, having joined the scheme in the mid-1980s 
and accrued 14 years of benefits. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the 
OPS was £97,563 with a normal retirement age of 65. Mr J was a member of his 
current employers pension scheme with 4 years service.
A suitability report was issued by Portal, on 2 May 2013. The report started by saying it 
recommended Mr J should not transfer his pension at all but leave it where it was instead. 
Nevertheless, in the same report, Portal said that because Mr J insisted he wanted to 
transfer out of his OPS, it would help him do this. It said it could treat him as an insistent 
client, a term used in the industry to describe a situation where a client goes against the 
advice of a professional financial adviser.
Portal therefore went on to give Mr J a second recommendation within the same document - 
to transfer his OPS to a SIPP and invest the money in unregulated collective investment 
funds (UCIS) also recommended by Portal.
Mr J now says he was given unsuitable advice by Portal and referred the complaint to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. 
They thought Portal hadnt treated Mr J correctly when categorising him as an insistent 
client and that hed lost a lot of money as a result of the higher-end risk investments Portal 
had recommended after the pension transfer. The investigator said Mr J would not have 
transferred out of his OPS if Portal had given him suitable advice. 
Portal responded by saying it had dealt with Mr J correctly and hed been warned that 
transferring out of his OPS came with certain risks, which were explained to him. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mr J ultimately went against its advice. It says that he was advised that he ought 
to stay in the DB scheme, and it was Mr J himself that insisted he wanted to transfer out. 
Portal says this meant he became an insistent client and that accordingly, it followed a 
process to transfer Mr Js pension to a SIPP as per his wishes. 
At the time when Portal met with Mr J and was advising him, there was no specific regulatory 
advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. However, there were a number of 
important Conduct of Business (COBS) rules in the regulators Handbook. These included 
but were not limited to a requirement upon Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition to this, COBS required Portal to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like Portal, had a number of 
important responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what Mr J might have thought he 
wanted at the time, I think his overall expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was 
that he would be clearly guided on the basis of his circumstances and means. And in 
particular, it should have been clear that Portal had not recommended the transaction and 
the risks of the transfer-out Mr J was apparently interested in should have been pointed out.
I dont think Portal adequately did this. 
Initial contacts between the parties
On 22 March 2013, a client information form was completed, most likely by an introducer 
firm, setting out Mr Js details. It was noted on this form that Mr J was interested in 
transferring out of his OPS and into a SIPP which comprised of alternative investments 
although it wasnt clearly detailed what those were at the time. It seems this document was 
also the basis for Portal later classifying Mr Js attitude to risk as moderately adventurous. 
Looking at the types of questions Mr J was apparently asked about investing during the 
initial contacts, and the contradictory answers listed to some of these, I think theres very 
little evidence to justify that eventual description of Mr Js attitude to risk. I note Mr J said, for 
instance, that he preferred the safest types of investment, that he had little experience of 
investing in stocks and shares, and that when it came to investing, hed rather be safe than 
sorry. So I think Portal categorised Mr J at a much higher risk level than was justified, a 
factor which became relevant later on when Portal recommended how he should invest his 
SIPP funds. However, Ive also noted parts of this form werent properly filled out, a feature 
Ive noted in some of the other client documentation in this case weve been sent by Portal.
Next, I considered Portals fact-find form which was completed on 1 May 2013. Given this 
particular pension represented a significant portion of Mr Js overall retirement provision, I 
dont think Portal did a good job of really finding out enough about Mr Js circumstances on 
this form either. It was not a comprehensive document, by which I mean it was summarised 
and shortened to a somewhat careless extent. For example, Mr Js outgoings were not all 
individually detailed and there were quite a few fields in the document unfilled. I think there were also statements in the fact-find which needed clarification, particularly 
around the types of investments Mr J would potentially like to enter into. Ive also seen an 
apparent adviser recommendation page at the end of the copy of this form which weve 
been sent. However, I dont think this section formed part of the original fact-find document. 
I say this because this recommendation page is typed, whilst all other pages are 
handwritten. And I dont think a recommendation would normally have been given during a 
fact-find discussion. Ive also noted the other pages in this document are numbered, whilst 
the page headed adviser recommendation is not. This part of the form also says, the client 
has returned the form stating that they wish to continue with the pension transfer. So, in my 
view, this recommendation page, attached as it is to the fact-find and dated 29 April 2013, 
almost certainly didnt form part of the same exercise completed on 1 May 2013.
Collectively, these issues give me cause for concern. I think they portray a lack of diligence 
on Portals part and also a failure to really understand Mr Js retirement needs in the years 
ahead. They also point to earlier discussions with Mr J where he had already agreed to 
transfer his pension, before any advice had been given to him. So, rather than 
understanding his needs and acting in Mr Js best interests, the advice from Portal appears 
to me to have been almost entirely based on his apparent desire to transfer out of his 
existing scheme at the age of 48, with no real consideration about his future retirement 
plans.
Objectives listed during the advice
I then looked at portals suitability report, dated 2 May 2013. This should have been an 
opportunity for Portal to clearly and formally set out what its recommendations to Mr J were 
for his OPS, based on the information it had collected thus far. The report listed Mr Js 
pension objectives as follows: 
To have more flexibility
To have access to a greater investment fund choice 
It said he was concerned with the scheme funding position
It said he was worried about the employers capability of reducing the fund deficit
Ive thought about these apparent objectives and I considered the likelihood of them 
originating from Portal, rather than from Mr J himself. I think, for example, that the objectives 
listed here are simply further evidence of a misunderstanding of Mr Js circumstances and 
needs. Ive seen no evidence that his circumstances demanded greater flexibility, which in 
any event, seems poorly defined in this case. Mr J was only 48 so was some way off retiring. 
Nor is there any evidence he had either the capacity or desire to actively manage his 
pension funds going forward. Instead, everything Ive seen shows Mr J to be an 
inexperienced investor who had a desire for financial stability more than anything else. In my 
view, the pension he had was already within such a scheme, entirely managed for him and 
containing guarantees for the future.
In addition to these things, I think the comments and objectives listed about the security of 
Mr Js OPS, were also contradictory. Portals own records show the overall funding of Mr Js 
OPS to be at around 95%. We know its not uncommon for DB schemes to have deficits but 
theres simply no credible evidence in this case that the deficit, if there was one, wasnt 
being addressed by the pension provider. Nor is there any real evidence that the scheme 
was somehow at a risk of collapse. Even if this were the case, Id have expected a broader 
explanation from Portal and reassurance on this point in the suitability report. I would have 
also expected to see a more expansive explanation of the pension protection fund, to explain 
these types of concern to Mr J, and to help him come to an informed decision about what he 
ought to do.So, in short, whilst I think its possible Mr J may have found the prospect of transferring out 
of his OPS worthy of exploring at the time, the apparent objectives as listed in the suitability 
report were no more than generic issues. They were also unrelated to Mr Js situation and I 
think they are much more likely to have come from Portal, as part of justifying its transfer 
advice, than from Mr J himself.
The recommendation
While on first look, Portals suitability report did set out that its initial recommendation for him 
was not to transfer out, I think this was seriously undermined by statements and actions it 
made elsewhere. To me, Portals report was pre-disposed to enabling Mr J to transfer out of 
his OPS from the outset and so its initial recommendation did no more than pay lip service to 
the important benefits and guarantees Mr J would be giving up in the process.
I say this because although there was a recommendation not to transfer out of his DB 
scheme, this was set out at the beginning of the report in only one short sentence. Here 
would have been an appropriate point at which Portal could have clearly told Mr J why he 
shouldnt transfer. In my view, there should have been an explanation of the benefits hed be 
giving up and a demonstration that his funds, if transferred out of the scheme, would be 
highly unlikely to grow in a way that would match the benefits of leaving them inside the 
scheme. This could have been done with reference to the critical yield or other growth-
related comparisons, together with accompanying explanations. It also ought to have 
explained the impact of transferring on Mr Js retirement plans, including whether hed have 
enough income to live on at his desired retirement age if he transferred out. Furthermore, it 
should have addressed Mr Js concerns about the financial stability of the scheme and 
explained why it was not in his best interests to transfer out of the scheme for this reason.
However, it was only later in the report that references were made to what Mr J would be 
giving up and, in my view, these dangers were substantially underplayed. The majority of the 
remaining part of the suitability report was devoted to the SIPP fund recommendations, all of 
which were inappropriate for an investor like Mr J who had specifically said he wanted 
financial stability and preferred safe investments. In this situation, what I would expect to see 
was a meaningful emphasis in the documentation showing the reasons why the transfer was 
not in Mr Js best interests. However, the information Portal provided was once again 
generic and limited to the loss of guarantees. There was only a brief mention of the critical 
yield required to match the OPS benefits and the significance of this was not explained.
So, ultimately what happened in the report was that immediately following a very short and 
unsupported recommendation to stay inside his OPS, which didnt address Mr Js objectives 
at all, Portal said it was treating Mr J as an insistent client and was therefore recommending 
Mr J should transfer out after all. 
But I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr J had little knowledge or experience 
of pension related matters. Based on the information available at the time of the advice I 
think this should have put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters 
through the insistent client route. However, every reference I can see to Mr J being an 
insistent client comes from Portal, rather than Mr J himself. I therefore dont believe the 
evidence is plausible that Mr J even was an insistent client. And as Ive said above, it 
seems Portal had recorded that Mr J had already agreed to transfer out before any 
recommendation was given to him, so its advice was geared towards this.
I further considered a Declaration Form Mr J was either sent or given in a letter. Because 
this was also dated 2 May 2013, its fair to say this would have been issued together with the 
suitability report Ive described above. Portal points to this form being evidence that Mr J 
wanted to go ahead and transfer against its advice. However, I disagree with this and I think 
this form falls substantially short of what Id expect to see from regulated financial advisers and their approach to an insistent client. I say this because the Declaration was prepared 
wholly by Portal, rather than Mr J. And it contains a list of statements which in my view are 
obviously designed to remove any responsibility from Portal.
So, this Declaration Form was no more than a template which made a number of unrealistic 
assumptions about Mr Js understanding of the process. Examples include a failure to 
explain the different types of growth rates, and a description of illiquid investments which I 
think Mr J would have needed much more information about. Given Mr Js likely levels of 
financial knowledge and experience, I think it was important for Portal to ensure Mr J 
understood what he was getting into. A good way to have done this, for instance, would have 
been to see in his own words that he understood the recommendation being made and why 
he wanted to proceed. It would also have been important for all these warnings and 
statements to have been set out for Mr J at a different point in the advice proceedings and 
not together with the suitability report.
In my view, therefore, Portals actions and inactions here fitted the regulators later definition 
of a papering exercise designed to quickly complete the transfer-out process. In my view, 
Portals recommendation wasnt clear and it failed to set out its advice with due care and 
skill.
Suitability of advice
Given Portal itself has said it advised against a transfer, it would be hard for it to now argue 
that the transfer was in fact suitable. And I see that in responding to our investigators view 
Portal now accepts that transferring out of the OPS wasnt suitable for Mr J  so theres no 
dispute about this matter. I also agree that transferring out was not suitable. 
In my view, there were a number of shortcomings in this case preventing Mr J from making a 
fully informed decision. I also think its more likely than not that the provision of full 
information and better analysis would have influenced Mr Js decision making. So, if Portal 
had followed a better process, I dont think Mr J would have insisted on going ahead with the 
transfer. I say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mr J what he would be losing out by transferring his 
deferred benefits.
Theres no evidence that Mr J, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or control 
over the investment choices of his pension funds.
Mr J was paying for independent financial advice, and if that advice had been 
persuasive about the suitability of remaining in his OPS, I think its more likely that 
hed have followed that advice, rather than being pushed immediately down an 
insistent client route.
Mr J was also only 48 at the time of the advice, and based on both what Ive seen and been 
told by Portal, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the fact that 
it was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
I dont think Portal explained these issues to Mr J or really emphasised why it wasnt suitable 
for him to give up all the guaranteed benefits the DB scheme came with when he didnt really 
yet know what his needs in later life would be. I also dont think it ever truly established why 
Mr J wanted to transfer out of the scheme at that time. 
Suitability of investments Portal recommended that Mr J invest his funds in a SIPP. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J and I dont think he 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been given to him, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in 
the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I have set out in this decision why I dont think Mr J met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal simply 
to transact what Mr J may have thought he wanted to achieve at the time  to transfer his 
pension out to another provider. 
I then explained how Portals initial recommendation not to transfer was not comprehensive, 
meaningful, or easy to understand. It did not adequately explain why transferring out was not 
in Mr Js best interests, in a way that was personal to him or with reference to his objectives. 
Portal then immediately offered Mr J a very easy route to transferring his pension anyway, 
via a series of signatures on pre-populated forms. In this respect, the advice did not meet the 
standard I mentioned at the beginning of this decision about being clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Finally, I went on to think about whether, if Mr J had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. Mr J went to Portal seeking 
advice. I think its much more likely that he would have followed that advice had it been 
delivered with the skill, care and diligence required and shown to be in his interests.
Portal failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mr Js complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr J, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My current understanding is that some elements of Mr Js investments in the SIPP may be 
illiquid, meaning they cant be readily sold on the open market. If this is the case it can be 
complicated to establish its value. To calculate the compensation in this event, Portal should 
agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to 
the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership of the investments.
If Portal is genuinely unable to buy the investments, it should give the illiquid investments a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr J to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr J to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
If the circumstances are that the SIPP only really exists because of the illiquid investments, 
then:
In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr J wish to move his investment portfolio) and 
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr J can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pays Mr J an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial Services 
LLP. My recommendation would not be binding of he doesnt accept. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr J can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman