DRN-4336933
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined a claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with HDI in July 2022. She took the dog to 
the vet in September 2022 due to lameness in the dogs left back leg. The vet diagnosed 
cruciate ligament rupture.
Mrs B made a claim for the treatment. HDI said that as the dogs clinical history showed that 
the dog had had cruciate disease since August 2020 in its right back leg, it would class this 
as a bilateral illness which predated the policy and so wasnt covered.
Mrs B brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Mrs Bs policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. There is 
an exclusion in the policy for:
The recurrence or continuation of illness or disease from which your pet previously 
suffered arising prior to or within 14 days of the start of this insurance. 
The policy explained how illnesses with multiple sites would be treated. It said:
For illnesses that can have multiple sites or bilateral illnesses such as eyes, ears or legs 
we shall treat all occurrences of an illness as the same illness and charge only one excess. 
This is the definition as to how benefits are provided under this policy of insurance. If the 
condition diagnosis by your veterinary surgeon is the same as a previous condition, they 
will be treated as the same condition even if the problem is in a different part of your pets 
body. If your pet has a growth on the left ear which is subsequently found on the right ear, 
both will be treated in benefit terms as the one condition. Benefit limits and the start date for 
the condition will be from the date that the left ear growth was found irrespective of the time 
difference between diagnoses. 
We will always treat the same diagnosis as one condition irrespective of when or where in 
your pets body the symptoms are found, even where the condition is diagnosed in different 
legs for the purpose of allocating benefits and deciding the start date for the condition it will 
be the date that the first symptom was diagnosed.
In respect of bilateral conditions it is the approach of this service that it is not fair and 
reasonable to consider two separate episodes of cruciate rupture in different legs as one 
incident. That is the case unless there is sufficient evidence to show that they are causally 
connected or that there is an underlying disease that affects both cruciate ligaments. 
Ive looked at the dogs previous veterinary history. In August 2020 not long after Mrs B had 
acquired the dog who was over 8 years old at that time, some x-rays were taken while she 
was being neutered. The vet suspected that the dog had had cruciate disease for some time. 
They said:
Rads showed good hips, but right stifle def thickened cf L and some free fluid in joint and 
tibial crest irregular. Suspect has had cruciate dz at some time, but body is trying to heal it.
In January 2021 the vets notes say:
Went to beach on xmas day, and hurt right leg.,, not really improved since then (one month 
duration). This dog had a similar complaint in August 2020, and x-rays were taken then  
hips good, but thickening of right stifle joint and a possible diagnosis of chronic cruciate 
injury was made then.  
In early 2021 the dogs right leg was operated on for a cruciate rupture.
In order to establish whether the cause of the cruciate ligament rupture in the dogs left hind 
leg was linked to the earlier problem with the right hind leg, I asked Mrs Bs vet whether the 
dog was suffering from cruciate disease affecting both cruciate ligaments. They said the 
same disease process was present but in different limbs. 40-60% of dogs who have cruciate 
disease in one leg go on to develop cruciate disease in the other leg.
On balance in this case, I think its likely that cruciate disease was the cause of the problems 
in the right and left hind legs of Mrs Bs dog. The first clinical signs of this were noticed in 
August 2020 before Mrs Bs policy with HDI started. So, I dont consider it was unfair of HDI 
to treat this as a pre-existing condition.
Neither party had any comment on my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman