DRN-3670516
The complaint
Mr H complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), a type of 
personal pension plan.
Tideway Investment Partners LLP is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to TIP.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr H was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to TIP 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr H was 40 years old, married and with two dependent children. He was in good 
health and at that point he had accrued around 18 years of pension benefits with the 
BSPS in two periods of employment.
Mr H had recently joined the defined contribution (DC) pension scheme with his 
employer. He also had another DC pension believed to have around £30,000 in it. 
Mrs H also had pensions of her own.
Mr H earned £57,000 per year and Mrs H earned around £16,000. They lived in a 
home valued at approximately £145,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £8,000 with 2 years to run. Mr and Mrs H also had savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs BSPS was approximately 
£400,926 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. The fact-find said Mr H 
wanted early retirement, at the age of 60.
TIP set out its advice in a suitability report on 30 November 2017. It advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension arrangement. TIP said this would 
allow Mr H to achieve his objectives. Mr H accepted this advice and so transferred to a 
SIPP. In 2021 Mr H complained to TIP about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension arrangement but TIP didnt agree with this and 
it set out in a final response letter why this was. 
Mr H then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, TIP said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr H had at the time. 
TIP has since maintained its stance on the merits of the transfer recommendation and Ive 
noted it has twice asked us, in recent months, for the value of Mr Hs SIPP. It has also said 
recently that it doesnt think Mr H has lost any money. It implied that due to changes in 
financial markets, most notably bond yields, the outcome is that hes better off having 
transferred his pension. It also asked for an Oral Hearing to be conducted in this case, which 
Ive fully considered  and declined - and Ive written to the firm separately about this.
Although TIP has recently said it has used software to establish there has evidently been no 
loss incurred by Mr H by him transferring, Ive not seen the inputs it used to come to this 
view. Nor am I satisfied the calculations have been carried out by a skilled person using 
appropriate software. TIP also hasnt made any offer to Mr H to resolve the complaint, and 
his representative has maintained that he wants a final decision to be issued. 
Im conscious Mr Hs complaint was made some considerable time ago. And Im very sorry 
hes had to wait so long whilst these matters are resolved. I note weve also adhered to 
some time-extensions requested by TIP throughout this complaints journey. My 
understanding, having read all the submissions carefully, is that TIP still continues to dispute 
the merits of Mr Hs complaint and denies it was an unsuitable recommendation. More lately 
it is saying theres no loss anyway.
So, as the complaint cant be resolved informally, its now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TIP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have considered TIPs response to our investigators view and will pick up many of the 
issues it raised, below. However, Ive rightly focussed directly on the issues I believe to be 
relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, TIP should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a type of personal pension arrangement was in Mr Hs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Our investigator referred in his view to the critical yield rate. The critical yield is essentially 
the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. It is 
one of several factors that can help determine whether transferring from a DB pension was 
financially viable. Ive considered some other factors too.
However, TIP wasnt clear, in my view, about what the critical yields actually were. Normally 
Id expect to see these set out on a transfer analysis document or suitability report and there 
would be a clear indication of how much the growth would need to be to make transferring 
out worthwhile. In this particular case, Id have expected to see critical yields for a retirement 
at the age of 65. This is because this was Mr Hs NRA. 
I think that here it would have been useful to also show the critical yields for an early 
retirement, at the age of 60, because this was mentioned in various documents by TIP 
during the advice process. I think the yields in each case also ought to have been set out as 
if Mr H was retiring and taking a full pension without a tax-free lump sum  and then also set 
out as if he was taking a reduced pension with a tax-free lump sum. I think both these 
scenarios would have been useful comparators for Mr H when thinking about whether 
transferring away was worth it. TIP itself says Mr H mentioned hed probably take a tax-free 
lump sum upon accessing his pension.
However, the transfer advice (initial appraisal) document, of 12 October 2017, portrayed 
the growth assumptions in a somewhat complicated way, in my view. 
Ive found this document, and the growth assumptions it used, quite hard to understand; I 
think Mr H would have too. Instead of setting out all the relevant critical yields or growth 
assumptions clearly against the ages and scenarios Ive mentioned above, TIP referred to a 
number of different ages, such as the age of 77 and 76, and it said he could use his 
transferred funds to those ages  even without any growth at all. It also set out assumed 
growth predictions which it said matched the final salary income until Mr H was 100 years 
old. However, I think these descriptions were somewhat misleading.These were quite obviously not comparing like-with-like benefits with the DB scheme, and 
the emerging details of the BSPS2 would, of course, have explained the types of guarantees 
and benefits Mr H would have enjoyed for life rather than just to a certain age. So, none of 
this really explained what this meant for Mr and Mrs H and it wasnt clear whether the 
comparisons were against the BSPS or BSPS2 schemes. By the time this advice was 
issued, details of the BSPS2 had become clearer. When looking overall at the advice he was 
being given, Mr H would also have needed to consider the various fees associated with a 
SIPP (or other form of personal plan) to comprehend what the analysis was saying. It also 
wasnt clear precisely what level of retirement income TIPs analysis was comparing against. 
So, all this just wasnt clear enough for Mr H to make an informed decision. 
Nonetheless, the TIPs analysis certainly implied that transferring out would be financially 
viable for Mr H. So, Ive considered whether this approach was reasonable, given the 
information and financial environment we know existed at the time. Mr Hs attitude to risk 
(ATR) was described as being at level 3. Elsewhere, Ive seen he was described as having 
a low to medium ATR. 
Growth assumptions from the SIPP provider itself certainly didnt look high. Low growth was 
assumed at the time by the provider as minus (-) 0.49% and medium growth was 2.44%. 
This advice was also given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
For example, the relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can 
refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 
2017 and was 4.6% per year for 24 years to retirement (age 65) and 4.4% for retirement at 
60. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's lower projection rate was 2% and the middle one 
was 5%. So given everything Ive said above, around the regulators rate, discount rate and 
the providers own growth assumptions, theres nothing showing transferring out was more 
beneficial for Mr H from a financial comparison perspective. As weve seen, growth rates at 
the time were low and the interest rate environment was also low. And all these assumptions 
were pointing to approximate future growth of around 2 -to- 4%. So, TIP referring as it has 
done lately, to the much-changed financial environment of today isnt a fair comparison.
I noted that in its analysis TIP used a benchmark of the transferred funds matching those of 
his current scheme. And later, in the full recommendation report of 30 November 2017, TIP 
said to match the scheme pension to age 100 would require ... an equivalent to a gross 
return from the underlying investments of 4.94%s p.a. when fees are applied. Given what 
Ive said above, I think this is higher than the growth that could have been reasonably 
assumed. 
Ive noted that TIPs recommendation report also said, at current rates, a sum of £99,970 is 
required to purchase an RPI linked annuity at age 65 that would provide the same level of 
income as is payable from your first period of service of the British Steel pension scheme. 
For the second period of service . you would require a sum of £790,080. These figures 
were much higher than Mr Hs CETV total.So, I think these things all provide a revealing window into what, at the time, Mr H was being 
advised to give up. From a financial perspective, I do accept the differences in the realistic 
growth assumptions  and hoped for growth -were not massive, as clearly the growth 
outcome can change. But there would be little point in transferring away from a DB scheme if 
the evidence at the time was showing potentially poorer overall financial benefits. The same 
could be said for even achieving only the same benefits. And the regulators starting position 
about it probably not being suitable needed to be considered at this point. The analysis 
provided by TIP at the time also wasnt clear enough, but in my view, all these things Ive 
mentioned show that growth rates would be quite low, again looked at from the perspective 
of November 2017. Put another way, it didnt look realistic that Mr Hs funds could grow by 
enough to make transferring suitable for him. 
To summarise then, TIP was not justified in implying Mr Hs pension outside the scheme 
could grow to an extent that made transferring out worthwhile. The critical yields and growth 
assumptions were poorly set out in his case and, in my view, these shortcomings made 
comparisons difficult for Mr H. As Ive explained, looked at from the perspective of 2017, 
rather than today, there was no compelling case showing hed receive benefits of a higher 
overall value at retirement as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension. And this 
being the case, there was no apparent value in this context in transferring away.
However, to be clear, TIPs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension arrangement was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, TIP said Mr H had additional reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
TIP recommended a transfer to a type of personal pension. It based this on discussions TIP 
and Mr H had and which were variously recorded in the suitability / recommendation report, 
a telephone meeting the parties had and the final response letter to Mr Hs complaint
Ive summarised the main themes below as:
Mr H wanted to retire early, at the age of 60.
He said he wanted to draw tax free cash from age 60 and use it to supplement his 
income if he cut down his working hours before he fully retired.
More flexibility  being able to draw an income to suit his needs.
His wife had some DB pensions, and they both expected state pensions of around 
£8,300 each.
He was concerned that only half of the BSPS pension would go to his wife if he died. 
He was unsure of the benefits from BSPS 2.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that TIP recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr H. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cashI think this demonstrates the overall weakness in TIPs approach. The obvious issue here is 
that Mr H was only 40 years old and its simply not credible that he had any plans for 
retirement at that point. As of 2017, this pension represented Mr Hs major retirement 
provision and contained a number of useful guarantees and benefits commensurate with a 
DB scheme.
Its certainly possible there was a discussion about potentially retiring early and Mr H might 
have genuinely hoped to retire as early as 60. But Ive seen nothing that shows this was 
anything more than something he might have aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to 
being part of a formulated plan. And in determining what Mr Hs income retirement needs 
could be, anyone judging these would be making no more than a guess. 
TIP also promoted to Mr H that he could access tax-free cash if he transferred to a personal 
pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum when he 
reached the age of 60. Its often the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a 
personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and 
benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But extra tax-free lump sums being 
removed from a personal pension, potentially from his mid-50s in his case, also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. Its possible that some warnings were given about this and other aspects about 
leaving a DB scheme but the advice was to transfer, nevertheless, and this was part of the 
rational for doing so.
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario of any early retirement aspirations Mr H had  
were more fixed - and he really did want to retire early - I think TIP should have been clearer 
about the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for example. 
Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an option for Mr 
H, although this would have meant Mr Hs pension benefits would have been somewhat 
different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. Again, I accept this was 
probably discussed, but I think this was discounted by TIP as the recommendation focussed 
on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr H faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility
I also cant see that Mr H required flexibility in retirement and in any event I think this was 
poorly defined by TIP. I note TIP said he thought hed need around £3,000 per month in 
retirement and it said some of the costs hed face were fixed. It also speculated that he might 
need to flex his income at certain ages. But in my view, it was much too soon to be advising 
Mr H to transfer to a personal pension based on age. Mr H was barely mid-career and he 
had children which by retirement age would most likely be non-dependent. And a major 
housing cost  his mortgage  was due to be paid down fully in just two years
As he was so young, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Hs financial and income needs were 
likely to be in retirement. And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr H wouldnt 
have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension 
instead of transferring out to a type of personal pension plan. 
This is because, as well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr H had already 
joined his employers new DC scheme and could have been making contributions to it for up 
to 24 years more, until he retired. Mr Hs contributions to this second pension were being 
substantially added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in this DC 
pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). As Ive mentioned, Mr H did 
also have a further personal pension at the time which hed started independently some 
years before.
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr H could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing DB pension, and one 
with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, 
hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found he did 
require flexibility, this pension could have provided it. As Ive said he also had a further DC 
pension. 
I have therefore considered what TIP said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. TIP also implied that 
Mr H would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. But Ive 
seen nothing which shows Mr H had either the desire to exercise personal control over his 
pension. I accept Mr H had some previous exposure to investing but he was cautious. And to 
grow the transferred funds in the way TIP recommended he could, a higher degree of risk 
exposure was required.
So, I think Mr Hs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had other, DC pensions, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr H to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.
Mrs Hs pensions
Our investigator mentioned two DB pensions Mrs H had at the time. In fact, I think there was 
also another one too. TIP told Mr H that if fixed pensions were what he wanted then this was 
met by Mrs H having hers. But I dont think view this is realistic.
Mrs H was 39 years old and from what Ive seen, these pensions were fairly modest affairs 
(although as DB schemes, they no doubt contained certain very useful features). I dont 
doubt that these pensions would have complemented Mr Hs income at retirement. But Ive 
seen nothing showing that they gave Mr and Mrs H enough financial headroom for him to 
transfer away from what was by far their largest financial asset at retirement. Mrs H had a 
pension forecast to pay £1,100 per year at retirement and another current one forecast as 
£6,100 per year  but these were for an NRA of 68 years old. Her third DB scheme had an 
NRA of 65 and was forecast as £4,500 per year. 
Im sure these pensions were of reassurance to Mr and Mrs H. But his DB scheme was by 
far the largest, and Im not clear why introducing more risk to the main family pension was 
the suitable thing for him to do. TIP seemed to base this rationale on the far more modest 
pensions Mrs H had in reserve, two of which were payable at a later age. Mr H was also not 
an adventurous investor, so the case cant even be made for him aggressively growing his 
funds with the knowledge that his wife still had some DB schemes to fall back on. This 
wasnt a feature in this case.I also acknowledge the existence of state pensions. But I dont think these change anything. 
Given their birth dates, these would have been payable in their late-60s and I dont think a 
transfer-out recommendation at the age of just 40 was justified or relevant, due to the 
existence of their respective old age pensions.    
Death benefits 
TIP says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension could 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr H died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr H. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think that inferring Mr Hs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because 
he could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only just in his 40s and in good 
health, he and Mrs H had a family. In my view, the likely death benefits attached to the new 
DB scheme were therefore highly relevant to Mr and Mrs H and they were also substantially 
underplayed. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs H if Mr H 
predeceased her and I dont think TIP made the value of this benefit clear enough. As a 
father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr H. These 
were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, there may not 
have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Hs passing, particularly if 
he lived a long life. TIP should therefore not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr H could have also nominated Mrs H and / or their children as the beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his DC scheme(s). So, to this end, Mr H had already ensured part of his 
pension wouldnt die with him.
I am not sure the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 40 years 
old, this would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr H really did want to leave a 
legacy for Mrs H and eventually their children. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and TIP 
said he probably lacked trust in the company. Hed also no doubt heard negative things 
about the PPF and TIP said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was TIPs obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Hs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that TIP should 
have reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr H through the PPF would still have probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his actual ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees Ive mentioned. And although the increases in payment in the PPF 
were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, 
I dont think that these concerns should have led to TIPs recommendation to Mr H to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension could have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But TIP 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr H was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think TIP ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant he would be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr H still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr H would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr H was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr H chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think TIP should have advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr H would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that TIP disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr H, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr H to transfer out to a SIPP, and I think Mr H relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against TIPs advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if TIP had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.Im also not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if TIP had explained Mr H was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think TIP should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for TIPs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. 
So, TIP should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes. Compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. So, I am satisfied that a calculation in line 
with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
For clarity, Mr H has not retired. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
TIP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date TIP receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TIP to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect TIP to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint 
I now direct Tideway Investment Partners LLP to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount 
does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require Tideway Investment Partners LLP to 
pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Tideway 
Investment Partners LLP to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Tideway Investment Partners LLP pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tideway Investment 
Partners LLP.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman