DRN-4198903
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr M applied for a loan. Barclays approved the application and gave Mr M a 
loan for £5900 repayable over 36 Months at around £183 per month.
In June 2018 Mr M refinanced the loan. Barclays gave Mr M a loan for £7500 over 48 
months repayable at around £180 per month.
In December 2018 Mr M refinanced the loan. Barclays gave Mr M a loan for £10,000 over 60 
months repayable at around £199 per month.
 Mr M complained that Barclays had lent to him irresponsibly.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr M.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was nothing to suggest that Mr M 
wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the loans.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the 3rd loan was irresponsible because he was in persistent debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Barclays needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mr M could afford to sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out.  But lenders need to consider 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and 
the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Barclays has told this service that it used a credit decisioning system to determine whether 
the application should be approved. The system takes into account things like the 
consumers account history, credit history, the type and amount of credit applied for, income 
and expenditure and the reason for the borrowing. 
Barclays also carried out an income and expenditure assessment using information from Mr 
Ms bank statements.
Taking into account the amount of the loans and the relatively short time before each loan 
was refinanced, I think it would have been proportionate for Barclays to have reviewed Mr 
Ms bank statements for the 3 months period leading up to each lending decision to get a 
better understanding of Mr Ms financial position.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown. I dont 
know what further checks Barclays wouldve carried out. But as Ive said above, I think it 
wouldve been proportionate to look at Mr Ms bank statements. So, Ive looked at these for 
the relevant period.
The statements show that Mr M had average monthly income of £3300 and regular monthly 
outgoings of around £1150. Mr M had an overdraft which he used regularly and was 
repaying two other loans.
Mr Ms current account was regularly  but not permanently  in overdraft, but the overdraft 
limit was never exceeded.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr M had monthly disposable income of around £2100. I think this 
was sufficient for him to afford the loan repayments which, at their highest, were £199 per 
month.
Looking at the information, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M was struggling to 
repay his existing consumer credit commitments or that he was overly reliant on credit. If 
Barclays had looked at the bank statements, I still think they wouldve approved the loan 
applications.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to say that Barclays lent to Mr M irresponsibly.
Ive taken account of what Mr M has said about his overdraft and his credit cards. But I dont 
think this is a reason for Barclays not to approve the loan application because the 
information showed that the loan appeared affordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman