DRN-2030452
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that he was unable to access his account held with Atom Bank PLC (Atom) 
via his device when the mobile application (app) the account is linked to was upgraded. 
What happened
Atom is an app-based bank where access to accounts is usually done via smartphone or 
tablet. In March 2018, Mr B transferred his then one-year investment account into a two-year 
fixed investment account with Atom. At this point, Mr Bs Android tablet device was 
compatible with Atoms app. But as Mr Bs account was a fixed-term investment, he didnt 
need to access his account via the app on a regular basis. 
In February 2020, ahead of the account maturing, Mr B needed to access his account to 
provide Atom with details of a new nominated account for his maturing funds to be 
transferred (in the interim hed switched current account providers). It was, at this point, that 
Mr B found that his device was no longer compatible with Atoms app.
Mr B acknowledges he was aware that the app was being upgraded but he says the 
literature sent to him in this respect didnt make it clear that this would affect the compatibility 
with his device. He feels that Atom shouldve provided a better explanation to him about this. 
Mr B then attempted to set up the new app on a different device. But he encountered 
problems using the facial biometrics to set this up. And when he was able to provide his new 
account details the new account failed a verification process. 
Mr B has confirmed that subsequently he was able to arrange for the transfer to be made as 
he wanted from his matured Atom account - so there is no direct financial loss. But hes 
unhappy with the overall service he has received which he says caused him distress and 
inconvenience. So, he complained to Atom.
Atom recognised Mr Bs frustrations but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said the terms of 
Mr Bs account specify that its the account holders responsibility to ensure that their mobile 
device is compatible with the Atom app. It acknowledged the problems Mr B had told it about 
with the facial biometrics and suggested he call its agents so they could help him resolve the 
issue. And it added that if it cant verify an account it wont send or receive money from an 
Atom account  this is to protect the security of it. But it says in this case it was subsequently 
able to verify Mr Bs account and make the required transfer for him. 
Unhappy with the Atoms response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter but he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He was satisfied 
that the terms of the Atom account did specify that it was the account holders responsibility 
to ensure their device was compatible with Atoms app. 
He also noted that Atoms website was regularly updated to show which devices were 
compatible. And he didnt think Atom acted unfairly in updating its app as this kept it up to 
date with security requirements and the latest technical developments found in more recent 
versions of operating systems.
Mr B disagreed saying - in summary, that Atom did not make it clear  when the app was 
updated, that this would render older devices incompatible with the app and that it should 
have done. And he felt the investigator had relied solely on the terms and conditions of the 
account which he felt was unfair. He said that this service should be considering what 
Atoms rules should be not just whether the rules had been applied or not. The investigator 
didnt think Mr Bs response altered the outcome he had reached. So, the complaint has 
come to me to reach a final decision  which is the second and final stage of our process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. I know Mr B 
will be disappointed as I can see how strongly he feels about this issue. So, Ill explain why.
But first, I think it would be helpful to explain that its not our role to tell a business how to 
operate  we are not the regulator. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
And we arent a consumer watchdog as Mr B has mentioned. Rather we are an independent 
and impartial service  we review the individual circumstances of a complaint and decide if 
the business has done something wrong which has caused the consumer a financial loss 
and/or material distress and inconvenience. If we find it has, we tell it to put things right. 
I think its common place today for operating systems to be updated by manufacturers on a 
regular basis. And banks also update their apps to keep pace with these operating systems. 
And I think these changes are generally done for improved performance and security. As a 
key feature offered by Atom is the online access, I cant fairly say that Atom acted 
unreasonably when it updated its app.  
I appreciate Mr B has acknowledged updates happen and that the crux of his complaint is 
that he wasnt told his device would be no longer compatible after the app upgrade. So, Ive 
thought carefully about this.  
And Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account which he agreed to when the 
account was opened. These say:
To use the App youll need either an Apple or Android device that meets our 
minimum operating system and device compatibility requirements. You can find a list 
of these on our website  It's your responsibility to make sure you own a compatible 
device with a compatible operating system for the entire term of your relationship with 
us, otherwise you may not be able to access important information about your 
accounts and/or service them effectively. If youre unsure what this means, you 
should seek technical advice from the provider of your Apple or Android device or 
call us.
So, Im satisfied the terms make it clear it is for the account holder to ensure their device is 
compatible during the lifetime of their relationship with Atom. 
I know Mr B feels strongly that its wrong for the onus to be placed on the account holder. 
But I dont think Atom was required to contact account holders individually - beyond the email Mr B received about the app upgrade. Mr B hasnt disputed being aware of the 
upgrade and I think the account terms indicate the possibility that devices can become 
incompatible with its app overtime. 
Ive looked at the information that Mr B was provided with in November 2019 about the app 
upgrade. And I can see that this explained that Mr B could contact Atom if he had any 
questions about the upgrade. In addition, as our investigator has mentioned, Atoms website 
also contained information about which devices were compatible with its app. So, overall, I 
think Atom provided enough information in this respect. And I dont think Atom was required 
to ensure compatibility with all possible devices and operating systems that its consumers 
may have
Mr B has explained that he wanted to ensure that his funds - which were due to mature, 
were transferred to the correct account. And, when he found he couldnt use the updated 
Atom app, he attempted to use a different device to download the latest Atom app. But he 
had difficulties using facial recognition on the app on this device. 
Its not clear what the problems were. But I can see that when Mr B told Atom about the 
problems hed had, Atom sent him some hints and tips on biometrics that it thought might 
help him. And it invited Mr B to call its agents on a 24-hour help line. So, I think Atom offered 
Mr B enough support at this stage to try to assist with the problems he was having setting up 
the new app. 
I note Mr B has concerns about other consumers having issues logging into the upgraded 
app using the facial biometrics system. Whilst I appreciate his concerns, as mentioned 
above, my role is to consider the individual circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
 
I can also see that Atom didnt initially accept Mr Bs instructions to transfer his funds to a 
new account hed opened because it couldnt verify the details it needed to do this. But I 
think its reasonable for a bank to have verification in place to ensure the security of their 
customers accounts and money.   
I understand Mr B thought Atom would have been updated about his new account details 
when he switched current accounts using the Current Account Switcher Service. But its my 
understanding that the new account provider is required to let any direct debit payment 
originators know a consumers new account details. I dont think this service extends to 
providing the new account details to other banks that the account holder may have 
current/savings accounts with.  
Overall, I accept that it was frustrating for Mr B when he discovered his device was no longer 
compatible with Atoms app, But I dont think Atom did anything significantly wrong. From 
what Ive seen, Mr B was: told about the app upgrade, given details of where to find 
information about compatible devices, offered telephone-based support; and, ultimately, his 
funds were transferred on time to the account of his choice. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman