DRN-2256017
The complaint
Mr T complained about the service provided by Assurant General Insurance Limited 
(Assurant) when he made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T has mobile phone insurance with Assurant. His policy is provided as a benefit of his 
bank account, and my references to Assurant include its agents appointed to handle claims. 
In August 2019 Mr T made a claim on his mobile phone insurance. He paid the £100 excess 
and sent his phone to Assurant. But Assurant said it couldnt repair the phone because the 
Find My iPhone facility hadnt been deactivated. Mr T asked Assurant to keep hold of his 
phone while he tried to deactivate that facility. When Assurant didnt hear from Mr T for 
several days it decided to send him a replacement phone. Two weeks later Mr T contacted 
Assurant to say the battery on the phone was faulty as he had to charge it three or four times 
a day. He returned the phone to Assurant but its engineers couldnt find a fault with it, so 
sent the phone back to him. Mr T wasnt happy with the quality of the phone, or that he had 
to pay £100 for a phone that didnt work properly, and so he complained.
Assurant said it had applied the £100 excess in line with its terms and conditions. It said its 
engineers couldnt find a fault with the phone but said it would review the situation again if 
Mr T provided a diagnostic report from the manufacturer. Mr T remained unhappy and said 
he wanted Assurant to admit the phone was of a poor quality standard and replace the 
battery with a new iPhone battery.
Our investigator thought Assurant had acted fairly and reasonably. He was satisfied with the 
way Assurant had handled the claim and with the excess fee of £100 it had charged. He said 
hed seen an engineers report that showed no faults with the battery, and noted that 
Assurant had given Mr T the option of getting an independent report. If that showed there 
was a problem with the battery, Assurant had said it would look to resolve the issue. Our 
investigator thought it would be unfair to ask Assurant to take any further action. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr T but, having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy held by Mr T say the insurer can charge a £100 
excess fee every time a successful claim is made. So, I dont think it was unfair of Assurant 
to ask Mr T to make that payment when his claim was accepted.
I can understand why Mr T wasnt happy that Assurant sent him a replacement phone even 
though hed asked it to wait until hed deactivated the Find My iPhone facility. But Assurant 
said it couldnt do anything more until that was done and it sent a replacement phone when it 
didnt hear back from Mr T. So, in the circumstances, I dont think that was an unreasonable 
thing to do.
Mr Ts main concern is with the quality of the replacement phone Assurant sent him. In 
particular, he says the phones battery is faulty as it needs to be charged several times a 
day. When he raised that issue with Assurant, it asked him to return the phone so it could 
inspect it. The evidence Ive seen shows that Assurant then carried out tests on the battery 
(and the rest of the phone) but found no faults with it. It therefore returned the phone to Mr T. 
Importantly, it offered to look at any evidence Mr T could provide to support his view that 
there were problems with the battery and I think that was a fair and reasonable thing to do in 
the circumstances. Its engineers had tested the phone and hadnt found a problem with the 
battery so I dont think it was unreasonable for Assurant to return the phone and offer to 
review the situation if Mr T provided further evidence to suggest its findings were wrong.
In conclusion, and for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that Assurant has handled 
Mr Ts claim fairly and reasonably and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman