DRN-3206841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) declined their travel 
insurance curtailment claim. My references to ERV include its agents.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs L bought a single trip ERV travel insurance poilcy to cover them in 
Europe from 30 October 2019 to 30 April 2020. In 2019 they went to a European country to 
attended a two part ski training course with inclusive half board accommodation. They 
attended the first part of the course, remained in the country and started the second part on 
8 March 2020 which was due to last four weeks.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 12 March the government of the relevant country announced the closure of 
ski resorts and guest accommodation from 16 March 2020 due to Covid-19. The training 
course was cut short (curtailed) on 16 March 2020 and Mr and Mrs L returned to the UK that 
date.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
On 23 March 2020 the FCDO advised all British travellers to return from abroad immediately.
Mr and Mrs L claimed on the policy for the costs of the second course that was curtailed. 
Theyd travelled to Europe by car and ferry and they said they had no additional travel costs 
to claim.
ERGO declined the claim as it said curtailment due to FCDO advice against travel wasnt 
covered by the policy terms. Mr and Mrs L complained to us.
Our investigator said ERV fairly declined the claim as the policy didnt cover curtailment in 
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances. Also the policy excluded curtailment of a trip due to the risk of 
contracting a pandemic illness unless the FCDO issued a recommendation not to travel after 
Mr and Mrs Ls departure from the UK but they had returned to the UK before the FCDO had 
advised against travel abroad.
Mr and Mrs L disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They say:
Other course attendees had their claims settled by ERV under the same policy. 
The wording of the exclusion our investigator referred to meant there was cover for 
curtailment due to a pandemic provided the FCDO issued not to travel advice after 
they left the UK. The FCDO had issued that advice over four months after they left 
the UK.
The pandemic was confirmed after they left the UK and the claim should be covered 
on that basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I note Mr and Mrs L understand that ERV has paid claims of other attendees of the course 
under the same circumstances under the same policy. I dont have enough information to 
know whether thats correct and I need to make my decision about Mr and Mrs Ls complaint 
on the information I have. Generally, small changes in circumstances can make a difference 
to whether a claim is or isnt covered under policy terms.
Mr and Mrs L believe the claim should be covered because they travelled before the 
pandemic was declared. But not all circumstances are covered by insurance policies and 
different policies provide different cover. ERV doesnt need to pay the claim just because 
Mr and Mrs L travelled before the Covid-19 pandemic was declared.
Mr and Mrs L gave three reasons for their curtailment on their claim form to ERV:
1. Closure of ski resorts. 
2. Closure of relevant country borders.
3. FCDO advice not to travel.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) to see what cover is provided.
The policy terms and conditions at page 22 say:
Section 6  Curtailment
What is covered:
A. All reasonable additional travel expenses incurred by You in returning to Your 
home address in Your country of residence and irrecoverable Course Fees where 
such return is urgently necessitated by:
1. The death, serious Illness or severe injury of Your Relative or Close Business 
Associate, where such Relative or Close Business Associate, is resident in Your 
country of residence.
2. Your Kidnap or the Hijack of the scheduled public transport in which You are 
travelling.
3. Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current Redundancy 
Payment Legislation) or that of any person with whom You are travelling provided 
that such notice of redundancy is advised after Your departure.
4. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or Your 
presence being required by the police following burglary at Your private dwelling 
occurring at any time after commencement of the Insured Journey.
5. You or any person with whom You are travelling or staying, being subject to 
serious assault/rape or witnessing a traumatic event requiring hospitalisation or 
psychological counselling.
Mr and Mrs Ls trip wasnt curtailed due to any of the above listed insured reasons.
The policy also says, on page 22, under the heading Exclusions applying to Section 6:
What is not covered
3. Any curtailment of a trip due to the risk of contracting an epidemic or pandemic 
virus/illness unless the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has issued a 
recommendation not to travel after Your departure from the UK.Mr and Mrs Ls point is that exclusion wording means curtailment due to Covid-19 (a 
declared pandemic) is covered if the FCDO advised against travel after they left the UK, 
which is what happened. 
But I dont think the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls curtailment fall into that exception to 
the exclusion because, although the FDCO advice not to travel was issued after they 
travelled, for there to be cover the FCDO advice needs to be the cause of the curtailment. 
There was no such FCDO advice in place at the point of Mr and Mrs Ls curtailment as they 
came home on 16 March 2020, the day before the FCDO advice was given. So I cant fairly 
say the FDCO advice caused their curtailment and two other reasons Mr and Mrs L gave for 
the curtailment arent covered by the policy terms.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L. I understand their decision to leave the relevant 
country when they did. But in their circumstances I dont think the policy covers the reasons 
for their curtailment and theres no basis for me to say ERV should reasonably do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman