DRN-3435584
The complaint
Miss S complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC have sold her debt and adverse information 
has been added to her credit file.
What happened
Miss S had a complaint against Avant for unaffordable lending upheld. Miss S agreed a 
repayment plan for the capital amount of the loan that was still outstanding. But despite 
being up to date with her repayments she said Avant sold the loan to a third-party debt 
purchaser. And her credit file was now showing that her account had defaulted. She 
complained to Avant.
Avant said they sold the loan as the third-party debt purchaser was more suited to support 
with the remaining payments and balance of Miss S loan. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Avants response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Avant should have reasonably known selling the loan could have
an adverse impact on Miss S credit report. And if they were able Avant should buy back the 
outstanding debt. But if they couldnt do so they should liaise with the new debt owner to 
remove any negative information recorded on Miss S credit file. She said they should also 
pay Miss S £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Avant said they couldnt buy back the loan. But agreed to pay the £100 compensation and to 
instruct the credit bureaus to remove all negative markers and defaults. They would also ask 
the third party debt purchaser to remove any negative markers theyd added.
Miss S said Avant should be made to buy back the loan. She asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Avants lending of the loan to Miss S has already been considered by this service so I wont 
comment further about this. 
What I need to determine is whether Avant has acted fairly and reasonably in how theyve 
handled Miss S remediated loan with them.
I can see  Avant has ensured Miss S outstanding balance was adjusted to account for the 
refunded interest fees and charges. And a repayment plan was set up with Miss S to settle 
the remaining capital advance form the loan. 
But in December 2021, Avant sold Miss S remaining debt to a third-party debt purchaser. I 
know Miss S is unhappy Avant sold her balance to a third-party debt purchaser. But a lender 
is entitled to sell a debt on. A lender might sometimes decide to buy back a debt should a 
complaint be upheld further down the line and theyre required to put things right. But a 
lender isnt required to do this. So, I cant make Avant buy back the loan.
I can see Miss S agreed repayment plan started in April 2020, and that she made her 
repayment each month. But Avants records shown that some of these repayments werent 
recorded. The repayments didnt show from June 2020 and this wasnt corrected until 
December 2020. And I can see from Avants notes that a Notice of Default was issued 29 
January 2021. I can also see that Avant took steps to get this corrected on Miss S credit file.
But I can understand Miss S frustration as in January 2022  after the debt was sold and 
despite maintaining her repayment plan she saw that the January 2021 default was again 
showing on her credit file. 
While I cant ask Avant to buy back the loan, I do think they should have made sure that 
there wasnt any adverse information about the loan showing on Miss S credit file when it 
was sold. And made clear to the third party debt purchaser that as they shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Miss S, its unfair for any adverse information about the loan to be recorded 
against her credit file.
So, I think its right that Avant should arrange for any adverse information about the debt to 
be removed from Miss S credit file. And to pay Miss S £100 for the trouble and upset this 
has caused to her.
As the debt has been sold Miss S is also entitled to take up matters with the third-party debt 
purchaser if she believes they record any inaccurate information. My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask AvantCredit of UK, LLC to:
remove any adverse information about Miss S loan from her credit file;
liaise with the third party debt purchaser to remove any adverse information they may 
have added about the loan to Miss S credit file; and
pay Miss S £100 for the distress and inconvenience cause.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman