DRN-3933012
The complaint
Miss M complains that the appointed representative of Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited 
failed to make an application to port her mortgage to her lender which meant when she 
moved house she incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of £6,500.
What happened
Miss M had a mortgage with a lender and in June 2020 approached an appointed 
representative of Quilter to act as a broker to advise on getting a new buy to let mortgage on 
her existing property and porting her mortgage product with her lender to another mortgage 
on a new residential property that she hoped to buy. Quilter told Miss M that her existing 
lender had agreed in principle a mortgage of £146,250 at the end of June 2020.  Miss Ms 
buy to let mortgage completed on 10 October 2020. 
But Quilter says that it made an application to her existing lender for a new residential 
mortgage in September 2020 and the broker told Miss M the following day:
I did submit the mortgage application yesterday afternoon which was a refer. This just 
means that their online system cannot give an immediate solution. However, I have received 
an email update from them this morning advising that the mortgage application has been 
declined. This is due to their internal credit scoring system! I am unable to appeal this 
decision. There is no evidence of an email being received but Quilter refer to an application 
which it says was submitted online to Quilter which records that the application was declined 
because of a failed credit score. 
Miss M completed her purchase with another lender but had to pay an ERC. Miss M queried 
with her lender why the application was refused as she was in a better position financially 
than when she originally took out the mortgage. But her lender said that it hadnt received an 
application. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he was satisfied 
that the application had been made by the broker and declined by the lender. Miss M asked 
for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M makes a number of complaints about the service she got from Quilter including: the 
broker didnt make an application to port; if there had been a decline, Quilter should have 
appealed the decline; Quilter should have told Miss M it was making the application through 
an online portal and advised her to of other ways to make the application with a better 
chance of success. Miss M made a separate complaint against her lender, and Ive had 
access to this complaint file which includes information in relation to this complaint.
1.The application wasnt submitted
Quilter has provided evidence that the broker submitted an online application to the lender. 
As a first step the lender did an internal credit score refusing the application.  The decline 
was recorded on Page 7 of the application form and the reason given by the lender as 
Failed Credit Score. Miss M says that the application was never made as the lender has no 
record of it and she says that there is no record of a credit check on her credit file at this 
time. But Quilter has produced evidence that the application was made online, but it failed at 
the first stage when it failed the lenders internal credit score which is recorded on the 
application. When Quilter submitted the application as the application was declined on credit 
score, the lender didnt create a mortgage account or create a record of it which led Miss M 
to believe, having contacted the lender, that an application hadnt been made, although it 
had. It seems that although the application was made online as it failed at the initial stage  
and as with most mortgage applications there will be several steps in the process - no record 
was kept by the lender of the application. Thats unfortunate but not the fault of Quilter.
I also note that the lender has seen this application with the failed credit score and has not 
raised any issue to suggest this was not its response to the application or that this document 
was somehow amended and not a true record of its decision. So, the evidence supports the 
brokers claim that the application was submitted online through the online portal and 
declined for the reasons stated. What the lender did with the application was a matter for the 
lender and whether it carried out a credit check and with what credit reference agencies is a 
matter for the lender and not a matter relevant to this investigation of the broker.
2. Quilter should have appealed the decline
Miss M complains that the broker didnt appeal the lenders decision. The broker says that 
its unable to appeal when the application fails an initial credit check. The lender told Miss M 
that if the application was declined due to a failed credit score that it wouldnt proceed as this 
forms part of its lending criteria. The lender says that its credit score is based on an internal 
lending criteria algorithm. The broker says that this decision couldnt be appealed, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it could. Miss M suggests that if she had made the application 
differently  say through a mortgage adviser that she would have had a greater chance of 
success and been able to appal that decision. This implies that the broker should have 
suggested she make the application by a different route. My experience is that in other 
cases where applications were being made through mortgage advisers is that if the lender is 
using an internal credit score generated by an algorithm that it wont allow an appeal. The 
application ends at that stage. So, I cant agree that the broker should have suggested an 
alternative application process in the expectation of a greater chance of success.
3. Quilter should have told Miss M that it was making the application through a brokers 
portal
The application was made through the brokers portal with her lender. Miss M says that she 
wasnt informed of this. I understand that any applications that Quilter has with the lender are 
made though this portal. In my experience lenders require that. Indeed, in its response to 
Miss Ms complaint the lender says that.
Please note that we no longer complete paper applications. We have adapted our 
technology and all applications are now processed using online systems. 
This would suggest that if Miss M wanted to make an application to her lender she would 
have to submit her application online and if through a broker online via the brokers portal. I 
see nothing unusual in that or that it was incumbent on the broker to say that it was being submitted online. Theres nothing to suggest that any other way would be more 
advantageous. Miss M presumably could have made a call directly to the lender and applied 
through a mortgage adviser. But why would that be more advantageous to Miss M? The 
lender would also as an initial stage do an internal credit score and If Miss M failed the 
online score there is no reason to believe that the score on a direct approach would be any 
different. The application would fail. If theres no appeal on the decision communicated 
through the online portal, theres no reason or evidence to believe that there would be one 
on a direct approach. Any appeal would be to the underwriters, but the lender has told us 
that they do not have a mandate to overturn a failed score decision. That would seem to be 
the reason why the broker was unable to appeal. So, I see no advantage to Miss M in the 
recommending a direct approach. I note that Miss M previously got an AIP with the lender 
and would naturally have been disappointed that the lenders decision now was different. But 
the lending decision was a matter for the lender and not the broker and this is a complaint 
against the broker.
 
Having considered the matter, my view is that Quilter did nothing wrong and I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman