DRN-3235430
The complaint
Mr L complains about HCC International Insurance Company Plcs handling of claims made 
under his contents insurance policy and their decision to decline those claims.
What happened
Mr L has an insurance policy underwritten by HCC International Insurance Company Plc 
(HCC) which covers the contents of his home.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary of the relevant events.
In October 2020, Mr L made a claim alleging that someone had forced an entry into his 
home. He said they had taken six suits and later returned them in a worn and damaged 
condition, taken several pairs of shoes and broken a mirror.
After sending a Loss Adjustor to visit Mr Ls property HCC declined the claim. The Loss 
Adjustor could find no evidence of any forced entry into Mr Ls home. 
Mr L said all the windows and doors were locked at the time and he couldnt explain how an 
intruder could have entered his property. Mr L had reported the matter to the police, but they 
hadnt treated the matter as a theft or malicious damage. Mr L said the individuals who had 
attended may have been pretending to be police officers.
HCC declined Mr Ls claim on the basis that there was no evidence of an insured event (a 
theft or forced entry, for example) having taken place.
Mr L later told HCCs agents that the intruder had also stolen toothpaste, an iron and food. 
He alleged the Loss Adjustor had discussed the claim with his neighbours. And he said 
towels and crockery had gone missing and his washing machine had leaked.
Mr L complained to HCC and they replied in November 2020. They said the claim had been 
properly declined. They explained that the damage to the mirror may have been covered as 
accidental damage, but the cost of repair / replacement was less than the excess on Mr Ls 
policy.
Mr L responded to HCC to ask why theyd paid money to a third party under his policy rather 
than to him.
In February 2021, Mr L made a further claim after he said his washing machine had leaked. 
HCC asked him to complete a claim form and provide evidence and further information.
HCC chased Mr L just over a month later as they hadnt received a response. Mr L replied 
with a list of things that he said had gone missing from his home, rather than with the 
requested information about the alleged leak. He also asked HCC not to discuss the claim 
with his family without his consent.
This claim was subsequently closed by HCC as there was no mention of the supposed leak 
in the claim form.
In April 2021, HCCs agents contacted Mr L again. They asked Mr L to provide a completed 
claim form and evidence and information relating to an escape of water hed reported to 
them. 
When Mr L brought his complaint about HCC to us, it wasnt entirely clear what he was 
alleging HCC had done wrong. 
After some discussion with Mr L  and with HCC  it appears Mr Ls complaints are that:
The claim for theft in October 2020 was unfairly declined.
There was no response to the claim for an escape of water in April 2021.
Evidence relating to Mr Ls claims has been withheld and destroyed.
Money had been paid to a third party under Mr Ls insurance policy.
Mr Ls neighbour has been allowed to interfere with the escape of water claim.
Mr L has been belittled by HCCs agents.
Mr L says he has been adversely affected financially and mentally and has been unable to 
carry out his daily routine. He also says hes worried that the issues hes experienced may 
recur.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint and didnt think HCC had done anything wrong.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with our investigator. I dont think HCC have 
treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. But our investigator has explained to 
Mr L in great detail why we wouldnt uphold his complaint. And Ill not repeat all of that detail 
here.
In short, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for HCC to decline Mr Ls theft claim in 
October 2020 because Mr L was unable to provide any evidence or information to 
substantiate his claim that there has been a break in at his property.
As our investigator explained, it is for the customer making a claim to demonstrate theyve 
suffered a loss or damage cause by an insured event. 
HCC sent a Loss Adjustor to visit Mr Ls home. Im satisfied Mr L was given every chance to 
indicate how an insured event (a break in) had occurred and to provide evidence or 
information to support his claim. 
And Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for HCC to conclude, on the basis of the Loss 
Adjustors report, that there was no evidence to support the idea that a forced entry had 
been made into Mr Ls home. It was reasonable for HCC to conclude that the damage to Mr Ls mirror might be covered as 
accidental damage. And it wasnt unfair to conclude that any payment made to Mr L to cover 
that damage would be less than the excess on the policy.
The way HCC responded to Mr Ls second claim was also perfectly reasonable. They asked 
him for information to support the claim for a leaking washing machine. He provided 
information which more or less contradicted the whole basis for that claim by listing allegedly 
missing property.
HCC have provided evidence that they also responded to Mr Ls latest claim for an escape 
of water in April 2021. In the absence of any further information from Mr L, its not 
unreasonable for them to close that claim.
Theres absolutely no evidence at all to suggest that HCC paid money to a third party under 
Mr Ls policy (and one might well ask why they would do so), or that their agents allowed a 
neighbour to interfere with any claim, or that evidence or information relating to these 
matters has been withheld or destroyed.
The evidence we have relating to the communications between Mr L and HCC and/or their 
agents doesnt suggest that Mr L has been belittled or indeed treated in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably. Indeed, they appear to have tried to understand Mr Ls claims and complaints 
and to help him with them.
In summary, Im satisfied theres no evidence or information to suggest that HCC have 
treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve handled his claims or in their 
decisions to decline those claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman