DRN-1665114
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI policy in 1989 at a meeting at the same time as they applied 
for a further advance on their mortgage. The policy gave them accident and sickness cover. 
They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
I've decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional, and they 
had to agree to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to have PPI. Bradford & Bingley disputes this. 
I cant know what was said during the meeting but Ive thought carefully about what Mr and 
Mrs B have told us, and looked at all the available paperwork. Their representative says the 
policy application form does not give an option not to take the policy, only to select which 
combination of cover is required. But the application form Mr and Mrs B completed first for 
their home improvement loan does. It asks if they wish to take advantage of the PPI cover 
and gives both yes and no as options. The options are set out with equal prominence. And 
Mr and Mrs Bs form shows they indicated yes, they wanted cover. The loan application 
form then directed them to complete the separate policy application form. There is nothing 
on either form that I think could have reasonably have led them to believe PPI was 
mandatory. In addition, Mr and Mrs B chose accident and sickness cover, not the more 
common package of accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Mr B was self-employed, 
so this makes sense and suggests to me that they selected the cover after discussion with 
the society.  Overall, I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear PPI was optional  and its most likely Mr 
and Mrs B chose to take it out. 
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check it 
was right for them. But it had to give them enough information, so they could make an 
informed decision about whether they wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information the society gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy if theyd 
received better information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and 
the policys terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs B werent affected by any of the things  such as a pre-existing medical 
condition - limiting the policys main benefits. As they couldve benefitted from the full 
extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. Their representative argues that as a self-employed sole 
trader Mr B could have been caught by simply answering the phone whilst he was 
sick as this would constitute work. And so the insurer could cancel a claim. But I 
disagree. I dont think its a likely scenario that the insurer would try to use such 
grounds to reject a valid claim. 
Mr B was self-employed, so he wasnt entitled to sick pay from an employer. Mrs B 
was entitled to at least six months sick pay but at the time of the sale this PPI policy 
paid out for an unlimited period of time for all successful accident and sickness 
claims. Mr and Mrs B had around £5,500 in savings but the PPI would have allowed 
them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for their future needs. They had borrowed quite a large sum of money over a 
number of years secured against their home. The impact of missing repayments 
would have been significant for them. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr 
and Mrs B if they were sick or had an accident.
I dont know when during the sale the society made clear the cost of the policy. But it 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr and Mrs B could have 
cancelled the policy at any time, without incurring any further cost.
 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
But Bradford & Bingley has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Bradford & Bingley got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Bradford 
& Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bradford & Bingley plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman