DRN-3914519
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society failed to update his address on his credit
card account which he feels resulted in him not being aware of the minimum monthly
payment amounts that were due on his account and in him incurring adverse reporting on his
credit file when he didnt then make those minimum monthly payments.
What happened
Mr W updated his address with Nationwide in January 2021, but while Nationwide updated
the address on Mr Ws other accounts, they failed to update the address on his credit card
account. This meant that Mr W didnt receive monthly statements for his credit account from
that time. Mr W was also told by Nationwide that he wouldnt be able to update his address
on his credit account over the phone, but instead would have to visit a Nationwide branch.
Because Mr W wasnt receiving monthly statements for the credit account, he didnt know
what his minimum monthly payments should have been and so guessed the amounts that he
should pay. However, he later learned that Nationwide had reported missed and late
payment markers to his credit file because the monthly minimum payments hadnt been
made by him in line with what was required on his account. Mr W wasnt happy about this
and felt hed only incurred the adverse reporting because Nationwide hadnt updated his
address correctly. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ws complaint. They accepted that they hadnt updated Mr Ws
address on his credit account when they should have done, and they apologised to Mr W for
this and made a payment of £150 compensation to him for the trouble and upset he incurred.
However, Nationwide felt that it had still been Mr Ws responsibility to have made the
monthly minimum payments that had become due on the account, and that Mr W could have
monitored his account via other channels beyond his monthly statements in order to
correctly understand the minimum amounts he needed to pay. So, they didnt uphold that
aspect of his complaint. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response to Mr Ws
complaint issued by Nationwide  including the £150 compensation for not updating the
address and that Nationwide hadnt upheld the further aspects of Mr Ws complaint  already
represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr W continued to be dissatisfied, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 December 2023 as follows:
Its clear that Nationwide didnt update Mr Ws address on his credit card account 
when they should have done in January 2021, and that this resulted in Mr W not 
receiving his monthly credit account statements to his new address.
Mr W feels that because he wasnt receiving his monthly credit account statements 
resultant from Nationwides error, that he shouldnt be considered accountable for his 
not making accurate payments towards his credit account  given that it was from the 
statements that he learned of the minimum monthly amount he needed to pay.
I can appreciate Mr Ws position here, to a degree. But ultimately, Mr W as the credit
account holder was responsible for meeting the contractual payment obligations on 
the account, and so I feel that if Mr W wasnt receiving his monthly account 
statements  for whatever reason  then it was incumbent on him to have confirmed 
what the monthly minimum payment due on the account were via other channels  
which could potentially have included via telephone or via online banking.
But Mr W didnt do this, and instead by his own admission he made payments 
towards the credit account that were estimates of what he thought the minimum 
monthly payment might be. And so, it stands to reason that if Mr W underestimated 
the minimum monthly payment due for any given month that his account would then 
fall into arrears because the minimum monthly payment required contractually hadnt 
been made.
This is what happened here. And given Mr Ws responsibilities as the account holder 
as previously mentioned, I feel its fair that he should have incurred the contractual 
charges and adverse credit reporting that he did as a result. So, I wont be instructing 
Nationwide to take any corrective action regarding these points.
However, Nationwides ongoing failure to update Mr Ws address hasnt helped 
matters here. And I note that it was only in January 2022, when Nationwide 
responded to Mr Ws complaint, that Nationwide took the proactive action of updating 
Mr Ws address on his credit card account for him as it should have been updated a 
year earlier.
It's difficult to understand why Nationwide took so long to update Mr Ws credit 
account address, especially as they themselves told Mr W that his credit card 
address hadnt been updated in error in March 2021. And I feel that if Nationwide had 
simply rectified their error in March 2021, and updated Mr Ws address as it already 
should have been updated, then its highly likely that matters here wouldnt havent 
progressed as they did.
As explained above, I dont feel that Nationwides error in this regard absolves Mr W 
of his responsibilities as the account holder, and ultimately, I feel that both 
Nationwide and Mr W havent acted as they reasonably should have here.
But, given that I feel that Nationwide could and should have simply updated Mr Ws 
address much earlier than they eventually did, I dont feel that the £150 that 
Nationwide have paid to Mr W as compensation for not updating his address is fairly 
reflective of the impact that Nationwides failure to update Mr Ws address has had in 
this instance.
So, my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ws 
favour on this limited basis only and instructing Nationwide to make a further 
payment of £350 to Mr W, taking the total compensation amount payable to £500, which I feel is more fairly reflective of the impact that Nationwides failure to update 
Mr Ws address has had.
In my final decision letter, I gave both Mr W and Nationwide the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they wanted me to consider before I moved to issue a final 
decision. Nationwide didnt respond, while Mr W did provide some points for consideration.
Mr W asked me to consider whether any charges or interest may have been incurred by him 
because of Nationwides failure to update his address, and if so whether those charges and 
fees should be reimbursed back to him. 
However, as explained in my provisional decision letter, while I am instructing Nationwide to 
increase the compensation payable to Mr W for the upset and inconvenience Mr W may 
have incurred for Nationwide not updating his address, I dont feel that Nationwide not 
updating Mr Ws address absolved him of his responsibilities as the account holder  which 
include the monitoring of the account, which I feel Mr W could reasonably still have done via 
online, telephone, or other alternative channels in the absence of receiving letters.
Because of this, I feel that if Mr W did incur any charges or fees, I wouldnt reasonably 
consider that these charges or fees were as a direct consequence of Nationwide not 
updating Mr Ws address, but instead were as a consequence of Mr W not meeting his 
responsibility to monitor his account, which Im satisfied remained incumbent on him despite 
the inconvenience he was experiencing in not receiving posted correspondence. 
All of which means that it remains my position that I feel a fair outcome to this complaint is 
that Nationwide should be instructed to pay a further £350 compensation to Mr W, as 
explained in my provisional decision letter. I therefore confirm that my final decision is that I 
do uphold this complaint in Mr Ws favour on that basis.
Putting things right
Nationwide must pay a further £350 compensation to Mr W, taking the total amount of 
compensation payable to £500.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman