DRN-3626547
The complaint
Mr C complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions wont refund 
money he was tricked into sending to a fraudster.
 
What happened
Mr C received a text message which appeared to come from Monese, an agent of PrePay 
Technologies Limited, which claimed that someone had attempted to make a payment of 
£267 from his account. 
He replied to say he hadnt carried out the transaction and he subsequently received a call 
from someone claiming to be Monese. The caller requested his email address and security 
code. Mr C found this to be suspicious and hung up.
Mr C received another call from the same number. He says the fraudster asked him to check 
the number on the back of his card and, when he saw it matched, he was convinced he was 
speaking to Monese.
The caller asked Mr C to provide an authorisation code which was sent to his phone. He 
says the caller explained that theyd need to make a payment of £5,300 from his account to 
a safe account in order to secure his funds. The caller claimed that the money would be 
returned to his account with the £267 that had supposedly been taken. 
When this didnt happen, Mr C realised hed been the victim of a scam. He reported the 
matter to Monese and said that it should have realised he was the victim of fraud due to the 
unusual nature of the transaction. Monese declined his claim on the basis that Mr C had 
made the payment himself. It was only able to recover £1.29 from the account which 
received his money. 
Mr C referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. They noted 
that a new device had been added to Mr Cs account immediately prior to the transaction 
which, in their view, ought to have given Monese cause for concern. They thought that had 
Monese contacted Mr C before the payment took place, the scam would have been 
prevented.
 
Monese disagreed, arguing that Mr C had made a similarly sized transaction a few days 
before  so the payment wasnt out of character for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr C authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of their account he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monese should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive reviewed Mr Cs account activity in the six months prior to the scam and I think that the 
transaction in dispute did stand out as being remarkable.
In the previous six months, there was only one transaction of a comparable size  a payment 
of just over £5,000 a few days before the disputed activity. I note that this payment went to a 
legitimate company which provides international money transfer services  a service that Mr 
C frequently uses. Its also worth pointing out that it doesnt appear Monese questioned the 
earlier legitimate transaction either. 
The disputed payment, on the other hand, went to an unknown new payee and almost 
cleared the entire balance of Mr Cs account. Like the investigator, I think the fact a new 
device was added to Mr Cs account immediately prior to the payment is significant. Such 
activity is a known indicator of fraud and something that Monese ought to have been alert to.
So, I think that Monese did make a mistake by allowing the payment to leave Mr Cs account 
without making further enquiries with him. Had it done so, its very likely that the scam would 
have come to light as Monese would have been able to inform Mr C that he was not 
speaking to it and that it would never ask him to move his money to a safe account.
Ive also considered whether Mr C acted reasonably in the circumstances. I think this was a 
relatively sophisticated scam  the text message Mr C received, although from a mobile 
number, was referring to Mr Cs payment service provider and the fraudsters were seemingly 
able to spoof Moneses telephone number. Its clear that Mr C, as a layman without 
knowledge of number spoofing, found this to be very convincing and it was sufficient to 
overcome his earlier doubts about the legitimacy of the caller. 
I acknowledge that the scam was only successful because Mr C divulged certain security 
information which allowed both the setting up of a new device and the payment to take 
place. But, I think he divulged this information because he firmly and reasonably believed he 
was talking to Monese and acting to protect his money.
So, Monese should refund Mr C the amount he lost. In relation to the interest, Im satisfied 
that, but for the scam, Mr C would have used this money for everyday spending, so Monese 
should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount lost.My final decision
I uphold this complaint about PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions and 
instruct it to pay Mr C:
- The amount lost  £5,300 less any amount recovered and returned to him
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman