DRN-4460142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Target Servicing Limited delayed the redemption of their 
mortgage causing them to mis out on a fixed rate product theyd successfully applied for with 
another lender.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took a mortgage in 2010 to buy their home. They bought their home using a 
help to buy type scheme  meaning that the purchase was partly  30%  funded by a 
shared equity loan lent by the Home and Communities Agency (HCA), which was 
subsequently replaced by Homes England (HE). This type of shared equity loan is not 
regulated, and the lender is not within our jurisdiction. But the lender has appointed a 
regulated firm, Target, to administer the loan on its behalf. In doing so, Target is carrying on 
a regulated activity, and Target is responsible for answering this complaint.
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs D wanted to remortgage to borrow enough to repay both their 
existing mortgage with their existing lender and the shared equity loan they owed to HE. 
They secured agreement from a new lender to borrow approximately £181,000, on a fixed 
interest rate of 1.14% for five years. The mortgage offer was valid for six months  until      
13 April 2022.
In order to repay a shared equity loan its necessary to obtain a valuation. Thats because 
the lending is based on a share of the propertys value  30% in this case  rather than a 
fixed sum. And so a valuation is needed to determine the amount to be repaid.
In this case, it became apparent that a restriction was present on deeds that remained from 
the time of the original sale to Mr and Mrs D. Target has described this as a charge owned 
by the developers who appear to have had a share of the equity in relation to the equity loan. 
Ill continue to refer to that as a restriction as that is what Mr and Mrs D and their solicitors 
have called it.
Targets system notes say a valuation and solicitors form was received on 19 October 2021 
and it produced a redemption quotation on 30 October 2021. On 1 December 2021            
Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor wrote to Target asking it to remove the restriction.
There followed a series of incidents that led to Mr and Mrs Ds initial complaint to Target. 
Their complaint points were as follows:
They were misadvised about a letter of authority (required for Target to deal with    
Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor) during a telephone conversation on 3 December 2021.
Theyd previously  in and email dated 16 December 2021  expressed 
dissatisfaction about Targets inefficiency. That complaint hadnt been addressed by 
Target.
Target hadnt returned a call having promised it would.
Those complaint points were upheld by Target in its final response letter dated                    
23 March 2022, in which it also apologized for taking longer than the regulatory time allowed 
for such a response.
Mr and Mrs D also complained that: 
Target had lost the initial letter of authority theyd sent. 
Their solicitors had not received any telephone contact for Targets legal department.
Target didnt uphold those complaint points saying it hadnt lost the initial letter of authority, it 
simply wasnt acceptable  though Target acknowledged that was because of incorrect 
information it had given to Mr and Mrs D in that regard. Target also said it wasnt its policy to 
make telephone contact with consumers solicitors. 
Overall, Target offered Mr and Mrs D £50 in respect of the complaint points it did uphold. 
Dissatisfied with Targets response, Mr and Mrs D asked us to consider their complaint.
Since bringing their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs Ds request to Target didnt progress the 
way they would have liked. My understanding is, to date the restriction has not been 
removed and so theyve been unable to redeem their mortgage and equity loan with Target. 
That also means they lost out on the fixed rate they were offered with another lender. And, 
because they wanted to fix their rate for the major part of their mortgage, they did so with 
their existing lender and still owe 30% of the property value to HE.
Our investigator considered the matter as a whole. He found:
Mr and Mrs D had acted in good time  allowing Target a full six months to remove 
the restriction.
On 5 January 2022 HE informed Target the matter should be treated as a normal 
redemption application. Targets usual timescale for that process is four to six weeks.
Target made an error on the legal charge  stating HEs address incorrectly. After 
that was returned to it by HE, it made another error  that time stating the name of 
the lender incorrectly  so HE returned the document again for correction.
The amendments of the legal charge appear to have been unnecessary in any event 
because both parts of the mortgage were to be redeemed. HE had said the process 
was to be treated as a normal redemption and Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors had also 
said the restriction shouldnt be an obstacle for the same reason, in its letter to HE on 
1 December 2022.
HE accepted that document on 15 March 2022. But there appears not to have been 
any progress made between then and 28 March 2022 when Mr and Mrs D chased 
Target. A need for an RX4 materialized at that time and that was sent to HE on       
8 April 2022. But HE appears to have taken no action until 28 May 2022  well after 
the date Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage offer expired.
The evidence provided shows that Mr and Mrs D and their solicitors instigated 
regular contact with Target and directly with HE in efforts to push the matter forward 
in time for them to complete on the mortgage deal theyd been offered.
Our investigator went on to recommend redress that would compensate Mr and Mrs D for:
 
Additional interest theyll pay either by sticking with their current mortgage or by 
restarting the redemption process and applying for a new remortgage.
The loss theyll suffer if they redeem the 30% portion and their property has 
increased in value.
Any incidental costs that were not otherwise payable by Mr and Mrs D.
£500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.Target didnt agree. It said it still hasnt received the correct documentation to proceed with 
the redemption. It said it advised Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors on 17 January 2022 once the 
redemption of the loan is finalised, it would require DS1s in respect of its charge and that of 
the developer. It says it produced its redemption quotation after it received the requirements 
for the redemption and has not received any communication since.
As Target did not agree with our investigators opinion, Mr and Mrs Ds complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
Following my initial consideration of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, I was minded to reach a 
slightly different outcome to that of our investigator. So, I wrote to both parties with a 
provisional decision to give them an opportunity to respond. In my provisional decision I said:
To decide Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, Ive thought about whether Targets delays 
caused them to miss out on the fixed rate remortgage deal they were offered in 
October 2021.
Having considered all the evidence available, I agree broadly with our investigators 
assessment of events. Its clear to me that Target caused delays because of errors in 
the documentation it submitted to HE. But I think it still could have removed the 
restriction  if that was actually necessary  so that Mr and Mrs D could have 
redeemed both parts of their mortgage in time to get the remortgage deal theyd been 
offered by another lender. What is unclear from the evidence available  aside from 
whether the removal of the restriction was actually necessary  is what caused the 
delay during the apparent periods of inactivity by Target.
Target said it still hasnt received the correct documentation to proceed with the 
redemption. It said it advised Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors on 17 January 2022 once the 
redemption of the loan is finalised, it would require DS1s. Again, I dont think that 
statement is clear. It reads to me that form DS1 would be required after the 
redemption figure is paid  once the redemption of the loan is finalised. So, Im 
unsure why such a form would have delayed the remortgage. Targets records show 
that message was sent to Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor on 17 January 2022, but it was 
worded no more clearly.
According to the UK Government website, form DS1 is for the cancellation of entries 
relating to a registered charge. So, I think the form would be drafted in advance but 
required at the same time/date the redemption was due to happen. That appears to 
be a standard requirement, so I think its likely Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors would have 
known that. 
However, Targets message to Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors of 17 February 2022 says 
Once the redemption of the loan is finalised, we will require a copy of  indicating 
that the form DS1 will be required at a non-specified date in the future. So, I dont 
think its reasonable for Target to rely on that message as notification the form was 
required then and its absence the reason for the delay. It appears from other 
evidence available that  subsequent to that message  there was other 
documentation required  some that, as outlined above was unnecessarily delayed 
by Target  before the redemption could have been finalised and the DS1 become 
necessary.
Due to the apparent lack of action at a time when it appears that Target should have 
been liaising with HE to make progress, and due to Targets suggestion that            
Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor was responsible for the failure of Mr and Mrs Ds plan to 
remortgage, I asked Target to answer the following specific questions:What specifically needed to happen for Mr and Mrs D to be able to redeem 
their mortgage with Target?
In Target's opinion, what happened to prevent Mr and Mrs D from being in a 
position to remortgage before the expiry of their mortgage offer on                
13 April 2022?
Which (if any) of the issues preventing Mr and Mrs D from being in a position 
to remortgage does Target feel are directly attributable to delays/failures of  
Mr and Mrs D or their solicitor? And please provide evidence to support your 
answer.
Rather than answering my questions, Target merely referred me back to previous 
correspondence  that referring to form DS1 Ive considered above. So, I wrote again 
asking for specific answers to my questions. Target did not respond and the deadline 
I set for a response has passed.
My role is to make a decision on whether Target has failed to act in reasonable time 
with regard to the redemption of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgages. I think that should 
include the clarity with which it has communicated to the relevant parties involved. As 
Ive said, based on what Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that it hasnt acted in 
reasonable time and that its delays have meant Mr and Mrs D were unable to 
proceed with the remortgage deal they were offered by another lender. And I think, 
based on the evidence available, it isnt reasonable to have expected Mr and Mrs D 
to have acted any differently in the circumstances. There is evidence of them chasing 
Target, reminding Target of timescales they needed to work towards and even 
involving their local MP to push Target to meet their deadline. 
So, based on the evidence available, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about 
Target.
Putting things right
To establish what Target needs to do to put things right, Ive compared                    
Mr and Mrs Ds relevant circumstances to where they would have been had Target 
administered their request to redeem their mortgage in reasonable time.
Mr and Mrs D would have a single mortgage loan equivalent to the amount 
remaining on the main part of the mortgage as at April 2022 and the value of 
the 30% share held by HE at that time.
They would have made repayments on that mortgage every month from then 
at a fixed rate (for five years) of 1.14%, rather than the amounts theyve been 
paying for their mortgage and shared equity loan since then.
The amount they owed to HE would have been capped at 30% of the value of 
the property in April 2022, rather than 30% of the current or any future value.
Any plans they had that they could only proceed with after their proposed 
remortgage  for example, Mr and Mrs D have mentioned having planning 
permission to extend the property  have been put on hold.
There are a number of possible ways forward depending on what Mr and Mrs D 
choose or are able to do. Ill outline what I think are the most likely:1. They choose not to repay the equity loan in the foreseeable future.
2. They choose to remortgage to repay the equity loan.
3. They choose not to remortgage but repay the equity loan from another 
source.
When Mr and Mrs D reply to this provisional decision, they should give me a firm idea 
of their intentions so that I can finalise redress in my final decision.
I then went on to outline the likely appropriate redress for each of the given scenarios.
Mr and Mrs D responded to say they would choose scenario two  to remortgage to repay 
the equity loan. But they said theyd like me to consider the increased cost of the building 
work theyd planned for their property and provided two estimates from a builder  one dated 
30 November 2021 and one dated 10 November 2023.
To date, Target hasnt responded to my provisional decision despite me giving a deadline of 
3 November 2023 for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As target hasnt responded to my provisional decision, and the point for my consideration 
raised by Mr and Mrs D only relates to how they should be compensated, I see no reason to 
change the actual outcome outlined in my provisional decision. So, Ill not do so.
However, I have given consideration to Mr and Mrs Ds assertion that their building costs 
have increased since they first received an estimate from their builder, and that they should 
be compensated for that increase. 
As Ive said above, Mr and Mrs D have provided estimates from a builder  one dated        
30 November 2021 and one dated 10 November 2023. While not identical in terms of items 
listed, I can see from them that the likely cost of their proposed building work has increased 
over the time that has elapsed.
We asked both parties to confirm whether Mr and Mrs D had informed Target of their plans 
for building work. Target did respond to that question  it said it had no record of being 
informed of Mr and Mrs Ds proposed building work. Mr and Mrs D also said they had no 
record of informing Target of that.
In my provisional decision  where I outlined my proposed redress  I included an amount 
for distress and inconvenience. And I said that, when thinking about that amount, Id taken 
into account plans Mr and Mrs D may have put on hold such as building work. Mr and Mrs D 
have now asked for the actual cost increase of the delayed work, which is different  and 
substantially greater. I understand their reasoning on that point. But, having thought about 
that carefully, I wont add that cost to the redress Ive previously outlined. Ill explain why.
Both parties have confirmed that Mr and Mrs D didnt inform Target of their proposed 
building work. Im not suggesting they had to do that to expect a reasonable level of service 
from Target. Instead, Im saying Target couldnt reasonably have foreseen that the level of 
service it provided would have resulted in the loss relating to the delayed building work  
because it had no knowledge of Mr and Mrs Ds building plans. 
In addition, while I dont distrust Mr and Mrs Ds assertion of their building plans, I cant conclude from what Ive seen that the building work outlined in the builders estimate dated 
30 November 2021 was more likely than not to have commenced promptly on completion of 
the mortgage (if at all).
Putting things right
In the interests of fairness to both parties, I think the most appropriate way to resolve         
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  where they choose to remortgage to repay their equity loan  is 
as outlined below. 
Target should communicate clearly and proactively with Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor 
about what action needs to be taken to allow Mr and Mrs D to redeem their loan with 
HE and remove the restriction.
Target should arrange for the repayment of HEs part of the mortgage at a cost to   
Mr and Mrs D of 30% of the value of the property in April 2022, according to valuation 
reports submitted at that time. If the amount required to repay the lender is more than 
this, Target will need to make up the difference.
Target should pay Mr and Mrs D:
othe difference between the amount they would have paid on the mortgage they 
had arranged to take from April 2022 on the one hand, and the mortgage theyve 
actually been paying plus interest charged on the shared equity loan on the other 
hand. This compensates them for the difference between the cost of having paid 
back the shared equity loan using a new mortgage at a lower interest rate, and 
the cost of retaining the shared equity loan and the old mortgage at a higher rate. 
oOnce Mr and Mrs D remortgage and repay the shared equity loan, Target should 
calculate the extra amount they will repay on this new mortgage compared to the 
mortgage they should have had in April 2022 for the period between the start 
date of the new mortgage and the end of the initial interest rate on the            
April 2022 mortgage. It should pay that amount to Mr and Mrs D as a lump sum.
In this situation, I dont require Target to pay 8% compensatory interest on the 
past monthly losses, as the impact of being out of pocket for this amount is offset 
by the benefit of receiving future losses up front.
Target should pay any redemption charge that may be payable under their current 
mortgage which Mr and Mrs D are required to pay to remortgage to raise funds to 
repay the shared equity loan.
Target should pay any product fees or valuation fees Mr and Mrs D have paid or will 
pay in relation to their remortgage or redemption of the equity loan to the extent 
those fees are in addition to those they have already.
Target should pay any reasonable costs charged by Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor in 
showing and evidencing any of the costs claimed by Mr and Mrs D as outlined above 
and any other costs charged by their solicitor in relation to dealing with this matter 
that theyd not have been charged had the April 2022 mortgage deal completed.
To any additional legal costs already incurred by Mr and Mrs D, Target should add 
8% simple interest* from the date the cost was incurred to the date Target makes 
payment.Target should pay Mr and Mrs D £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its delay, including the inconvenience of not being able to proceed with plans to 
extend the property.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Target considers that its required by             
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about Target Servicing Limited and it 
should follow my instructions in the Putting things right section above, if Mr and Mrs D 
accept my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman