DRN-4258948
The complaint
Miss H complains that shes being pursued for a loan taken out with NewDay Ltd (NewDay) 
that she didnt apply for or use.
What happened
Miss H has explained to us that she was previously in a coercive relationship in which her 
ex-partner had full financial control. She told us she discovered this £5,000 loan by checking 
her credit score. Shes reported the matter to the police. 
Miss H said the loan was taken using an email address that doesnt belong to her, and her 
ex-partners phone number. It was paid into a joint account which she didnt have access to. 
She also said that her post was intercepted. 
Miss H would ultimately like it to be determined that she isnt responsible for the loan and for 
any record of it to be removed from her credit file. 
NewDay told us it sold its loan book on to a third party (Company A). It said this was 
regardless of the standing of the account at the time of purchase and that Company A now 
administers the accounts instead of NewDay. It said it no longer has responsibility or the 
accounts or any associated complaints, including issues or events prior to the purchase  
which Company A said was in July 2021  and that its unable to review and respond to 
Miss Hs complaint as it doesnt have the right or means to do so. Company A said its still in 
active communication with NewDay who would provide the original lending information 
required. 
To make sure the correct party is held responsible for this complaint, our investigator asked 
for confirmation and evidence of the terms of the sale of the loan book from NewDay to 
Company A, specifically around liability for acts and omissions prior to this sale. This 
information was requested on 2 May 2023 and chased at the end of May 2023. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules that we follow, specifically DISP 3.5.9(3) and DISP 
3.5.14(1) say that the ombudsman can reach a decision on the basis of what has been 
supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested and that 
failure to comply with a time limit means the ombudsman may proceed with consideration of 
the complaint. So, having had no response from NewDay and with these rules in mind, the 
investigator provided their view of the case.
The investigator concluded that, in line with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Section 83 (1), 
Miss H shouldnt be held liable for the loss as the ex-partner wasnt acting, nor should they 
be treated as acting, as Miss Hs agent. And they werent persuaded Miss H was aware, 
consented to, or knowingly benefited from the loan taken out in her name. They 
recommended the loan be written-off, reference to it removed from Miss Hs credit file and 
any loan repayments refunded along with 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment until date of refund, subject to evidence from Miss H. Miss H agreed.
NewDay didnt agree. It asked for an ombudsmans decision but didnt provide any 
reasoning for why it disagreed. The investigator asked about this, particularly for the purpose 
of determining whether this was about its liability in respect of the case or the circumstances 
around the loan itself  setting a deadline of 5 July 2023. As our Service didnt receive a 
response, this was chased with a further deadline given of 20 July 2023. 
I contacted NewDay informally on 21 August, as our rules allow, to ask for the liability 
information previously requested and to explain that, in the absence of a response, I was 
minded to proceed on the same basis as our investigator. I asked for this to be provided by 
29 August 2023 and provided a reminder around this on 25 August 2023, which was 
acknowledged. I also arranged for contact to be made with Company A in a further attempt 
to obtain the liability information. 
On 6 September 2023, our Service was made aware by Company A that the loan had 
defaulted and had been sold on. But NewDay failed to respond to my request for 
information, and neither party has provided the required liability information. So, Im now 
proceeding to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
In the absence of sufficient proof to support that liability for acts and omissions prior 
to the sale have passed over to Company A, and in line with DISP 3.5.9(3) and DISP 
3.5.14(1), I hold NewDay responsible for this complaint.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 Section 83 (1) states The debtor under a regulated 
consumer credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from 
use of the credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as 
the debtors agent. Miss H has provided consistent and persuasive testimony around 
why she wasnt aware of this loan. So, in the absence of any response to disagree 
with the overall outcome reached on the case, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings of our investigator. I dont think it would be fair to hold Miss H liable for this 
loan.
In reaching my decision, its important to note that its somewhat unclear whether 
Miss H benefited from the loan in part. For example, there was around £500 in the 
account prior to the loan being paid in, and £500 was paid directly to Miss Hs own 
account shortly after the loan payment  which is said to have been an amount her 
ex-partner owed her. So, its debatable whether Miss H was given loan funds or 
existing funds. Payments were also made from this account for things such as bills 
and insurance, which may have also benefited Miss H. But, on balance, Im 
persuaded that Miss H didnt knowingly benefit from it. And it could reasonably be 
said that she didnt. Given the circumstances surrounding this case and the lack of 
engagement from NewDay, Ive proceeded on this basis. 
So, for these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Since the investigators involvement and my informal attempts to mediate this matter, weve 
been made aware that the loan has been sold on. So, to put things right, NewDay will need to take slightly different action to what was previously recommended:
- NewDay will need to arrange for the remainder of the debt to be written-off, which 
may require it to buy back the debt from the company that now owns it;
- NewDay should arrange for debt to be removed from Miss Hs credit file;
- If it can be shown that Miss H has made repayments towards the loan, these should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest per annum from the date of repayment to 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd. I direct it to put things 
right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman