DRN-3751283
The complaint
Ms G complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) have failed to refund over 
£248,000 she lost as part of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Ms G says she was contacted by a scammer purporting to be from Co-op bank in January 
2021. The person she spoke to said her Co-op account was at risk due to fraudulent activity 
being perpetrated by the banks employees as well as her financial advisor. Ms G was 
subsequently contacted by another scammer purporting to be from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), who said the case had been handed to them to look into financial 
corruption, and that they needed her help to catch the individuals involved.
The scammer instructed Ms G to move her money into a cryptocurrency account with Luno, 
as it wasnt safe for her to leave it in her Co-op account. She subsequently made several 
payments from her account totalling over £248,000, between 27 January and 5 February 
2021. She transferred her money over to her crypto wallet with Luno money, where the 
funds were then taken by the scammer.
Ms G eventually discovered she had been scammed and reported the fraud to Co-op on 
9 February 2021. Co-op said it had given Ms G several warnings and had even contacted 
the police, who carried out a welfare check but didnt have any concerns she was being 
scammed. Despite the warnings given by the bank, Ms G was still determined to make the 
payments. As a result, and given she had authorised the transactions, the bank refused to 
provide her with a refund. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. He didnt think the bank could have done 
anything more to prevent Ms G falling victim to the scam, particularly when she was able to 
convince the police that no one else was directing her to make the payments. Ms G 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered everything that has been provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms G authorised the disputed payments she made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platform from her Co-op account (where her funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer from her crypto wallet). The payments were 
requested by her using legitimate security credentials provided by Co-op and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Co-op should have done more to prevent Ms G from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that the payments Ms G made were considered unusual by Co-op given 
they did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and resulted in them discussing the 
reasons for the payments with her each time. Accordingly, its just a question of whether 
the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its various interventions.
Having considered the extent of Co-ops intervention, I can see that each time it did ask 
Ms G about the circumstances of the payments. Ms G told the bank that she was 
investing in Bitcoin through Luno and that it had been recommended to her by a financial 
advisor, whom she had been using for a long time. Co-op even asked Ms G if she had 
been told not to tell the bank the real reason for the payments, to which she said she 
hadnt, and said she was not being pressured or instructed by anyone else to make the 
payments. Co-op warned Ms G on several occasions about the risks of fraud and scams 
with cryptocurrency investments, but she was still happy to proceed with the payments. 
And while I consider Co-op eventually asked the right questions of Ms G on later calls 
(where it then became concerned she was being scammed and contacted the police), I 
do think they could have asked more probing questions from the outset, as the first 
couple of payments were able to be processed without much probing. However, Im not 
persuaded that it would have ultimately unraveled the scam, even if further probing 
questions were asked of Ms G when she made the initial payments. 
I say this because Ms G was able to convince the police that she was making a genuine 
investment following discussions with her financial advisor, and was not acting under the 
instruction of scammers. So, I do not think its likely that the staff at Co-op wouldve had 
any better prospect of breaking the spell she was under in order to prevent her falling 
victim to the scam. Ms G believed that dishonest staff from Co-op were involved and had 
been briefed by the fraudster to keep the true purpose of the payments a secret. Its 
clear that Ms G was very convincing in what she said, as the police had no concerns she 
was being scammed and believed her investment to be genuine.  
So, I dont think any earlier intervention or warning by Co-Op wouldve made any 
difference in this scenario, because I think its more likely than not that Ms G wouldve 
maintained the pretence that she was legitimately investing her money in cryptocurrency 
and wouldve continued to dismiss the fraud warnings she was given by the bank. I think 
she wouldve been concerned about leaving her money in her Co-op account, as she 
was under the belief that the banks staff were stealing money from their customers. So I 
think she would have stuck to her story, no matter which point Co-op intervened. And 
given that the police were not able to get to the bottom of what was unfolding, I do not 
think that any further probing or in-depth questioning from Co-op at any earlier point 
would have done so either.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Ms G being the victim of what was clearly a cruel 
scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Co-op to refund her loss if I thought it was 
responsible for the failure that caused it. And while I think Co-Op could have issued a 
clear scam warning sooner, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been able to prevent 
Ms Gs loss. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold the bank liable in these 
circumstances.
Ms G has said Co-op should refund her money in line with the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. However, the Code only applies to payments made 
from one person to another; it does not apply to payments which the payer has effectively made to themselves. In this instance, the Luno account the money was sent 
to was in Ms Gs name, which she had set up with copies of her identification. She had 
direct access to the account and knew the username and password. I appreciate the 
scammers may have also known the username and password, but Im satisfied it was 
ultimately her own account, rather than an account owned by any other individual. As 
such, the CRM Code would not apply to the transactions in these circumstances, as she 
had transferred money to another account in her own name.
I understand this will likely come as a great disappointment to Ms G, but I dont consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Co-op liable for her loss in these circumstances. So, I 
will not be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman