DRN-4403163
The complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement offered by Aviva Insurance Limited under a personal 
accident claim. 
What happened
Mr T holds personal accident cover with Aviva through his employer. He made a claim after 
injuring his arm. Aviva arranged for Mr T to have an independent medical examination 
(IME). It then offered him £2,500 in settlement of his claim, based on the IME doctors 
findings. It also offered him £200 compensation for the claim delay. Unhappy with this, Mr T 
brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on the IME doctors findings and settle the claim for £2,500. He 
also thought the compensation offered by Aviva for the delay was fair. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that Aviva will pay the sum insured shown in the schedule for accidental 
bodily injury to an insured person. 
The policy schedule sets out the sum insured for various permanent disabilities. Aviva 
assessed the claim under permanent partial disablement and the sum insured for that was 
up to £100,000. 
The policy says the following about permanent partial disablement:
Permanent Partial Disablement
In the event of an Insured Person suffering permanent disablement as a direct result of 
Bodily Injury, We will pay a percentage of the benefit shown in the Schedule depending on 
the degree of permanent disablement. 
Benefit for specific disabilities are: Permanent severance or permanent and total loss of use 
of
A thumb 30%
A forefinger 20%
Any finger other than a forefinger 10%
A big toe 15%
Any toe other than a big toe 5%
A shoulder or elbow 25%
A wrist, hip, knee or ankle 20%
The lower jaw by surgical 30%
Any permanent disability which is not covered by Capital Benefits or any of the 
benefits above up to a maximum 100% of the benefit shown in the Schedule.
Any permanent disability under this item will be assessed by considering the severity 
of the disablement in conjunction with the stated percentages for specific types of 
permanent disablement stated above. The occupation of the Insured Person will not 
be taken into consideration during this assessment.
Capital Benefits are stated in the policy to include loss of hearing, loss of limb, loss of sight, 
loss of speech, and permanent total disablement.
Mr Ts injury is to his upper arm (which is not a Capital Benefit and is not a specific type of 
disablement listed), and so the final bullet point above would apply. 
That means, in order to reach a percentage of the sum insured, Aviva would need to 
consider the severity of the disablement, together with the stated percentages for the 
specific types of disablement that are listed. As I understand it, Aviva has concluded that 
Mr Ts injury is comparable to a shoulder or elbow injury (which has a percentage payable of 
25%). That seems reasonable to me, given where Mr Ts injury is.
So, if there were permanent severance, or complete loss of use to Mr Ts upper arm, the 
maximum he would be able to claim would be £25,000 (as this is 25% of the £100,000 
maximum sum insured in the schedule). However, Mr T hasnt suffered the total loss of use 
of his upper arm. So the actual percentage that Aviva needs to pay depends on the degree 
of Mr Ts permanent disablement.
Ive therefore considered the available medical evidence to decide if Avivas settlement offer 
was fair.
Aviva arranged for an IME to take place with Mr M (consultant trauma and orthopaedic 
surgeon). Mr M said that Mr Ts upper arm symptoms were now a permanent feature. He 
concluded by saying I would equate this gentlemans left upper limb disability, in percentage 
terms, to be no more than 10%.
Mr T has provided a report from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). This says 
he was assessed for Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit, and concluded that the accident 
caused him a loss of faculty. It said he had been assessed as 25% disabled. 
Whilst I appreciate the DWP assessment concluded that Mr T was 25% disabled, it doesnt 
say what was meant by that or how this was worked out. I also dont know if a specialist did 
the assessment, or if Mr T was examined in person.
In contrast to this, Mr Ms report is very detailed. He carried out a physical examination of 
Mr T, and reviewed and took into account 41 pages of Mr Ts medical records. Mr M is an 
appropriately qualified specialist, and explained the outcome measures he had used to 
assess the functional impairment in Mr Ts arm.
Overall, I find Mr Ms report to be more persuasive, for the reasons Ive said. So I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to place greater weight on this than the DWP assessment. I dont think 
its necessary for Aviva to arrange for Mr T to have a further examination.  
Im therefore satisfied that Avivas £2,500 settlement offer (10% of the £25,000 available) 
was reasonable. Mr T is also unhappy about the time taken for the IME report to be written. I see the IME was 
carried out in February, but the report wasnt completed until April. I dont think Aviva was 
responsible for this delay, but Aviva has recognised that this caused Mr T some upset and 
so it offered him £200 compensation. Mr T should contact Aviva directly if he wishes to 
accept this (if he hasnt already done so). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman