DRN-4377477
Complaint
Mr W has complained about loans Bamboo Ltd (Bamboo) provided to him. He says the 
loans were unaffordable.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr W with a first loan for £1,000.00 in June 2018. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 23 monthly instalments of £75.96 and a final instalment of £76.05.  Mr W repaid 
this loan early. In July 2020, Mr W was provided with a second loan, this time for £3,200.00. 
This loan had a 60-month term with 59 monthly repayments of £140.84 followed by a final 
repayment of £141.06. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and Bamboo had told us. And he thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Ws complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo provided Mr W with a loan for £1,000.00 in June 2018 and a further loan for 
£3,200.00 in July 2020. These loans were due to be repaid in 24 and 60 monthly instalments 
respectively. 
Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Ws applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. And all of this information showed Mr W could 
comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr W 
has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Bamboo has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Bamboo searches appear to show that Mr W did have some historic difficulties 
(defaulted accounts from 2013) but his current commitments at the respective times were 
relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ws debt total at 
the time of the applications wasnt unreasonable in comparison to his income. 
Ive also kept in mind that Bamboo provided a second loan to Mr W and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But loan 1 was settled early. And 
while loan 2 was for a larger amount than loan 1, the monthly payments, werent particularly 
high. 
Furthermore, Mr W said that he was going to use loan 2 to consolidate some of his existing 
debts. And Bamboo could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known whether Mr W would go on to re-establish 
balances on any consolidated accounts  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely 
on assurances from  Mr W that the balances would be repaid with these funds. So Im 
satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce Mr Ws 
existing credit balances. 
Furthermore, as this was a first consolidation loan Bamboo was providing to Mr W, there 
wasnt a history of  Mr W obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in 
the way he committed to either. And Bamboo was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr W 
would be left in a better position.
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr W might have taken loan 
2 because of the effect loan 1 might have left on his finances. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates Mr W couldnt have afforded the 
loans either. 
I accept that Mr Ws actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Bamboo obtained. And its clear that his 
circumstances took a turn for the worse after the pandemic. Its also possible that Bamboo 
might have reached a different conclusion on the loans had it checked Mr Ws bank 
statements. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint 
in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
But Bamboo wont have known that Mr Ws circumstances would change. And given the 
amounts advanced, the monthly payments and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, Im 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks didnt extend into requesting bank 
statements and Bamboo was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr W based on the information 
that it did have.
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr W - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ws indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.Although Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint, I would remind Bamboo of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event of Mr W has difficulty 
making payments and it chooses to collect payments from him. I say this while mindful of it 
accepting that Mr Ws circumstances have changed and the gesture of goodwill offer it made 
in its final response to Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman