The complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2s complaint is about HSBC UK Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy about the 
process followed by HSBC when they tried to change their buy to let mortgage product and 
the repayment type, and want more compensation for their trouble and upset than the £350 
offered.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
This service only deals with individual complaints, and issues about subject access
requests are in the jurisdiction of the Information Commissioners Office. HSBC
accepts that its service wasnt good enough, that it issued product offers which didnt
match the application made and it didnt process the application correctly.
But my role isnt to punish businesses for making mistakes; its to put the consumers
back into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt been made.
Theres no financial loss; HSBC paid the extra interest paid by Mr C1 and Mr C2 and
they didnt accept the incorrect offers.
That leaves the issue of compensation for trouble and upset. Mr C1 and Mr C2 were
offered £350 by HSBC; they want £350 each due to the volume and size of the errors
made. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered, and I have to
look at the evidence of the trouble and upset suffered by Mr C1 and Mr C2, not the
size of the errors made by HSBC.I can see they spent time trying to sort matters out
but think £350 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and I leave 
it up to Mr C1 and Mr C2 whether to accept the £350 offered. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 to accept or reject my 
decision before 29 July 2020.
DRN-1251816Claire Sharp
Ombudsman