Complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr M bought the policy September 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
credit card and PPI were taken out during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr M aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that he chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms credit card application 
form from the time of sale.
On the form, I can see Mr M had the option of selecting whether or not he wanted the PPI 
added to his card. Theres a x in the box for the PPI. While the x appears to be printed on 
the credit card application form, I dont think this means that Mr M wasnt given an option for 
the PPI. 
The sale took place during a meeting and the application form included some additional 
information about Mr M, including his address and his employment details. So, I think 
its likely that the form reflected what had been discussed between Mr M and the adviser, 
before the application form was completed, printed and signed. 
Ive also noted that in the same section of the application form, Mr M had the option of 
selecting card protection. The box for the card protection was left blank, indicating that Mr M 
didnt want to take it out. So, I think Mr M would have known he had a choice about taking 
out either product. Overall, I think its more likely than not Mr M would have understood the 
PPI was optional. And I dont think he would have agreed to it if he didnt want to take it out.
DRN-1122432Mr M has said he was told by the Bank of Scotland adviser that he had to take out the PPI in 
order for his credit card application to be approved. And I accept that (approximately 18 
years on) this is how Mr M might remember the sale. But I havent seen enough to say Bank 
of Scotland crossed the line and told Mr M this when this wasnt the case. Overall, I think its 
more likely that Bank of Scotland gave Mr M a choice about the PPI. And that he chose to 
take it.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr M, and the policy seems to have been 
right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He was eligible for 
cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt 
cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr M has told us he would have been entitled to at least six months sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. Having thought about what Mr M has said about his 
sick pay, I dont think this means the PPI wasnt right for him. I say this because the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr M would have received from his employer 
and would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI 
also would have paid a benefit if Mr M was ever made redundant or in the event of death.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr M when 
he took out the policy  or that he had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Bank of Scotlands recommendation was suitable. And I think Mr M could have found 
the cover useful if he ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr M, Bank of Scotland also had to 
give him clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Bank of Scotland 
didnt give him all the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear 
as it should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have stopped Mr M buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman