DRN-4462344
The complaint
Mr G complains about Ikano Bank AB (publ)s rejection of a claim he made under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
In February 2020, Mr G purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a supplier. He 
paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Ikano. This means that Mr G can 
make a claim to Ikano under Section 75 of the Act for losses resulting from any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier, instead of having to claim 
from the supplier directly.
In October 2021, a claims management company (the CMC) made a claim to Ikano on 
Mr Gs behalf. It said that the supplier had misrepresented the system as paying for itself 
through reduced energy bills and income.
Ikano rejected the claim. It did not think there had been a misrepresentation. Following this, 
the CMC submitted a complaint on Mr Gs behalf about Ikanos response to the Section 75 
claim.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and recommended the complaint be upheld 
She felt something was wrong with the system since Mr Gs electricity usage and bills had 
increased significantly since installation. She recommended Ikano inspect the system and 
put right any faults and refund Mr Gs increased costs. And if that was not done then Ikano 
should unwind the credit agreement, remove the system, and refund Mr G what he had paid. 
Ikano disagreed. It said that it was technically impossible for the system to have caused an 
increase in Mr Gs electricity usage. That Mr G had provided inaccurate information to the 
supplier about his electricity usage at the time of sale (this was underestimated) and the 
supplier based its calculations of the benefits of the system on that inaccurate information. 
And in any case that Mr G was likely making significant savings from using the electricity 
generated by the system.
Because our investigator could not resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision explaining I was not planning to uphold the 
complaint. This gave Ikano and Mr G an opportunity to respond with any further comments 
and information for me to take into account when making my final decision. 
Ikano acknowledged my provisional decision but did not provide anything further. Mr G did 
not respond by the deadline. So my final decision is in line with provisional decision. And I 
am not upholding this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The CMC says the supplier said the system would generate income and savings for Mr G. 
However, the quote provided at the time of sale only shows the system leading to savings for 
Mr G. No income is mentioned. I am aware that Mr G could potentially benefit from the 
Smart Export Guarantee (if he isnt already), which was introduced by the Government 
shortly before the sale took place. So, it is possible that the supplier mentioned this. But 
there is nothing to suggest that Mr G was provided with figures setting out what income he 
may receive.
The quote is fairly comprehensive in setting out the potential savings Mr G might achieve. It 
provides the following table setting this out:
In the first year, the savings are estimated to be £503.92. The quote sets out that this is 
based on Mr G spending £133.66 per month on electricity at the time of sale, which equates 
to £1,603.92 per year. With the estimates for later years based on the electricity price 
increasing by 7.04% per year.
The table indicates that after 12 years Mr G would likely have made savings exceeding the 
cash price of the system. And comparing his total loan repayments to the cumulative 
benefits in the table I can see that it would take an estimated 17 years for the savings to 
exceed to the total cost of the system including loan interest.
The quote also states that, Depending on your usage and seasonal changes the electricity 
savings will vary. And that, The table above represents certain increases in RPI inflation 
and assumed price increases to energy costs as averaged by the Office for National 
Statistics. These figures could go up or down.
Later in the quote, where the total cost to Mr G (£14,283.30 payable over 120 monthly 
instalments) and first year benefit (£503.92) is set out clearly, it has the following note:
PLEASE NOTE: The performance of renewable energy systems is impossible to 
predict with certainty due to the variables that affect performance from location to 
location and from Year to Year. The above estimate is calculated based upon the 
Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) Standards.
There is another table in the quote, comparing the estimated savings to the loan 
repayments, that makes it clear that the savings would not exceed the monthly loan 
repayments within the loan term.
In the Frequently Asked Questions section of the quote, it includes Additional Savings 
Information including:
The performance of solar PV systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to 
the variation of solar radiation from location to location and from month to month.
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
The savings are based on case studies and your existing bills, these figures could 
go up or down.
The table shown represents certain increases in RPI inflation and assumed price 
increases to energy costs as averaged by the Office for National Statistics. These 
figures could go up or down.
So, while the quote does provide estimated savings from purchasing the system, it also 
clearly states the assumptions on which this is based. And warns that those assumptions 
may not be matched by the reality  meaning the savings may not match what is shown in 
the quote. I think that is to be expected, particularly given the estimates look 30 years into 
the future.
Overall, I dont think it would be reasonable to say there was a misrepresentation where the 
assumptions made by the supplier were reasonable. Particularly in terms of savings which 
will largely depend on how the customer uses electricity in their home. Given how the 
supplier calculated the estimated savings, I am satisfied that the assumptions were 
reasonable.
The suggestion is that Mr G has made no savings, because his electricity bills have 
increased significantly since the system was installed. But I dont think that is accurate. 
Firstly, the savings made are not made in the sense that a customers bills will reduce 
relative to how much they were before installation. Rather, their bills after installation will be 
less than they wouldve been if the system had not been installed. So, it is difficult to see 
what savings are made. And the more a customer uses electricity during daylight, when the 
solar panels are generating electricity, the more they are likely to save.
Mr G has said his circumstances and usage have not changed. But the installation occurred 
in February 2020, just before the Covid-19 pandemic led to significant restrictions over the 
following year or more (up until the claim was made), which meant that people spent far 
more time at home than previously. Spending more time at home will inevitably lead to 
increased electricity usage. And I think this is likely the main reason why Mr Gs electricity usage increased following installation, rather than there being a problem with the system 
itself.
As Ikano points out, it is also hard to think of a way that a solar panel system such as Mr Gs 
could cause an increase in usage when it is simply generating electricity which will be used 
in the home or exported to the electricity grid.
If Mr G feels there is a fault in the system he should contact the supplier and ask them to 
investigate this. But, based on the meter reading that the CMC has provided us, it appears 
that the system is working and has generated much more electricity than expected. So, it 
seems likely that Mr G will have benefitted from using some of that electricity and will have 
spent less buying electricity from his energy supplier than he wouldve done had he not 
purchased the system.
Over time, I think it is likely that the benefits of the system in terms of savings (and income if 
Mr G has or does sign up to the Smart Export Guarantee) will be more than the amount he 
paid for the system.
For these reasons and based on the information I have available to me, I dont think there 
was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier. So, I do not think that Ikano acted 
unreasonably when it rejected Mr Gs Section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman