DRN-1976455
The complaint
 Miss C complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (Churchill) 
declined a claim and cancelled her home insurance policy.
What happened
 In June 2019 Miss C contacted Churchill to report the theft of her handbag from the gym. 
She made a claim for the handbag and its contents, which included glasses, make up, her 
drivers licence and some jewellery.
Churchill investigated the claim and rejected it because it believed that Miss C had made a 
false claim.
Churchill also revisited a previous claim from 2014 and said it believed Miss C had also 
falsified that claim. It cancelled her policy and backdated the cancellation to 2014. 
Miss C felt shed bee treated unfairly and complained to this service. She wants the claim 
paid and the policy re-instated.
Our investigator thought Churchill had acted fairly in declining the claim and cancelling the 
policy. But he didnt think it was reasonable for Churchill to backdate the cancellation to 2014 
in the absence of any new information becoming available which suggested that the 2014 
claim was falsie or exaggerated. 
Miss C didnt agree. She said the information relied on by Churchill was inaccurate. 
Churchill didnt agree either. It said it thought it had reached the correct decision in 
retrospectively invoking the fraud condition on the 2014 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Churchill to pay the claim or reinstate the policy. But I 
dont think its reasonable for Churchill to backdate the cancellation of the policy to 2014. Ill 
explain why.  
The handbag claim
Ive reviewed the contact notes provided by Churchill. I can see from these that when Miss C 
first notified Churchill about the theft, she said shed gone into the gym with her handbag and 
gym bag on the same shoulder and had locked both bags in a locker. She said the locker 
was locked when she returned to the changing room after her swim and that she discovered 
it unlocked when she returned from the shower.
Churchill asked the gym for further information. It provided data showing that Miss C had 
entered her locker at 10.07am and locked it for the first time at 11.36am. The locker was 
subsequently unlocked and re-locked within a minute. The gym also reviewed its CCTV 
footage and told Churchill that Miss C had entered the gym with only one bag over her 
shoulder.
Churchill sent a claims investigator to the gym. He reviewed the CCTV footage and said he 
was satisfied that only one bag was visible when Miss C entered the gym. He inspected the 
lockers and found that when unlocked the locker door hung open. He also checked the 
locker entry data and was satisfied that Miss Cs locker had only been locked for one minute.
Miss C told Churchill that the gold chain was in her handbag because she intended to take it 
to the jewellers that day to obtain a quite to have it refashioned, following a discussion with 
the jeweller a week previous.
Churchills claims investigator contacted the jewellers, who said they had no record of any 
discussions with Miss C and no appointment booked for her.
The claims investigator visited Miss C twice. I wont comment in detail on the interviews but 
will focus on those points which are relevant to my decision.
The investigator asked Miss C how she was carrying her bags when she went into the gym. 
Miss C said she carried her gym bag over her handbag on the same shoulder. When the 
investigator showed Miss C the CCTV footage, Miss C said she might have got this part 
incorrect and that she may have put her handbag inside her gym bag. In relation to the 
jewellery, Miss C said she hadnt needed to make an appointment with the jeweller because 
shed been told she could just turn up and get a quote.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that there are inconsistencies with the claim. The 
CCTV footage and locker entry data doesnt support Miss Cs version of events. 
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Churchill to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
In doing so, Ive had regard to the terms and conditions of the policy. These say that 
Churchill wont pay a claim which is fraudulent, false or exaggerated. They also say that if 
the insured knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim, the policy may be 
cancelled.
Based on the inconsistencies and discrepancies between Miss Cs version of events and the 
information obtained by Churchill in the course of its investigation, I dont think Churchill has 
acted unfairly in determining that Miss C gave an inaccurate account of what had happened.
Ive taken into account what Miss C has said about the handbag, the lockers and the visit to 
the jeweller. I appreciate that Miss C feels that the information relied on by Churchill is 
incorrect. However, based on the information which was provided to Churchill, I dont think it 
acted unfairly in reaching the decision that it did.
Ive thought about what the impact of the inaccurate information was. Because of the 
inconsistencies and discrepancies Ive mentioned, Churchill thinks the information about the 
handbag and its contents is false or exaggerated. This affects the sum which would be paid 
under the claim.
In the circumstances, I dont think Churchill has acted unreasonably in declining the claim 
and cancelling the policy.
Miss C has said that part of the claim was paid before it was declined. Ive asked Churchill 
about this and it has explained that a part payment of £792.07 was authorised for some of 
the contacts of the handbag before the claim was referred for investigation. I dont think the fact that a part payment was made means that the rest of the claim needs to be paid, in 
circumstances where Churchill has investigated and found the claim to be exaggerated or 
fraudulent.
Previous claim
Because Churchill was concerned about the claim for then handbag, it looked again at Miss 
Cs previous claims and asked her some questions about a claim for a cabinet shed made in 
2014. Churchill thought that Miss C gave an explanation which differed from that which shed 
given in 2014 and decided to backdate the cancellation of the policy.
Ive thought about whether this decision was fair. On balance, I dont think it was. I wouldnt 
expect a persons recollection of events to be reliable after six years. Ive taken into account 
what Churchill has said about the date stamp on the photo and the fact that this information 
only came to light recently. However, Im persuaded by Miss Cs explanation for this. 
Further, I dont think theres enough new information to suggest that the 2014 claim was 
false or exaggerated. In the circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable for Churchill to 
revisit the claim and backdate the cancellation.
Putting things right
I dont think Churchill has acted unfairly in declining the handbag claim and cancelling the 
policy. But I dont think it was reasonable to backdate the cancellation to 2014.  The 
cancellation should only take effect in relation to the handbag claim.
Miss C has raised some concerns about a fraud marker which has been applied to her credit 
file. This is something which has happened after this service looked at the complaint. I wont 
be asking Churchill to remove the marker because as Ive said above, Im persuaded that 
the decision to cancel the policy on the basis that the claim was fraudulent or exaggerated 
was fair. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. UK Insurance Limited must amend 
the cancellation so that it isnt backdated to 2014.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman