DRN-3406639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
In 2012 Barclays sold Mr and Mrs S a packaged bank account. This was an Additions 
Active account which had a monthly fee and came with various benefits such as phone and 
gadget insurance, travel insurance and car breakdown cover. This started in 2012. 
In 2017 Barclays decided to stop providing that account to its customers. It changed Mr and 
Mrs Ss account to a standard free bank account, but with two insurance packs which did 
cost a monthly fee. These were a Tech Pack, which gave mobile phone and gadget cover; 
and a Travel Pack which gave travel insurance and car breakdown cover. The overall cost 
was £18 per month, compared to the £15 per month that the Additions Active account had 
cost. 
Mr and Mrs S complained that they had, in 2012, been made to feel that the Additions Active 
account was compulsory for them to have a joint account, and that they hadnt been aware 
of the benefits to make use of them. They also complained that they had been notified about 
the change in the account in 2017. 
There are rules that limit what types of cases the Ombudsman Service can look at; and 
Barclays said that the rules stopped us from looking at the complaint about the start of the 
Additions Active account in 2012. One of my fellow ombudsmen looked into that, and agreed 
that we werent able to investigate the 2012 sale. This is because the rules set out time limits 
about how long a customer has for making a complaint. However, he decided that we can 
look into the complaint about what happened in 2017. 
Our adjudicator investigated the changes in 2017, and decided that Barclays had acted 
correctly when making the changes. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicator, and so the matter has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained, Im only able to look at how Barclays changed the account in 2017. Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint, and so wont be telling Barclays to take any further 
action. Ill explain why. 
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case. In making my decision, Ive had 
full access to everything that Mr and Mrs S, and Barclays, have sent us. 
Barclays says that it wrote to Mr and Mrs S in advance, to tell them about the changes 
that would happen. Its given us a copy of the letter, which I can see was sent to the 
correct address  the same one that Mr and Mrs S have given to us. The letter explained 
the changes that would happen, which in my view were not in any case significant  the 
new account provided very similar benefits to the old one, just in a different way. The 
letter set out the new cost, and made clear how Mr and Mrs S could opt out of having the 
new packages. 
Barclays also later sent a similar letter to confirm that the change had happened.
Mr and Mrs S are certain that they didnt receive the letters, and say they received no 
notifications through their online banking. 
Its rare that I have evidence that shows that something definitely did happen or didnt 
happen. Instead I have to decide, on the evidence, what is the more likely thing to have 
happened. And, in this particular case, I think its likely Barclays did send these letters. Its 
possible they were lost in the post, or that Mr and Mrs S received them but didnt think 
they were important and didnt read them, or remember them. Or there may be some 
other explanation. 
Even if Mr and Mrs S did use online banking, in my experience its likely that a bank would 
send out an important notification like this by post. And I think the most likely thing is that 
Barclays did at least post out these letters. If Mr and Mrs S didnt see the information, I 
still think Barclays did what it could to tell them about the changes. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman