DRN-2076032
The complaint
Mr S complains about a restriction placed on his trading account by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
What happened
Mr S held a Smart Investor account with Barclays. Barclays wrote to Mr S in May 2019 
asking him to provide information and supporting identity documentation. In June 2019 Mr S 
returned a completed form, along with a copy of a driving licence. The licence had expired in 
February 2019, so Barclays deemed it invalid. As a result, restrictions were placed on the 
account in October, which meant that Mr S was unable to trade.
Mr S was unaware there was a problem with the information he sent in June. He only 
became aware that his account had been restricted when he encountered difficulty trading 
around mid-October. He says Barclays should have told him that the licence had expired, 
when it was received by them. 
Barclays state that letters were sent in July to those who had sent in invalid documentation. 
However, as this was by bulk mail they havent been able to evidence that a letter was sent 
to Mr S. Mr S has consistently said he didnt receive a letter.
After speaking to Barclays in October, Mr S immediately sent a copy of a valid driving 
licence. Given the situation, Barclays permitted Mr S to undertake a one-time trade on 18 
October. They also fast tracked the replacement documents sent in by Mr S and restrictions 
were then removed on 24 October. Unfortunately, Barclays wrote to Mr S again in November 
asking for the same identity information. Barclays agree that this letter was sent in error.
Barclays accept that things could have been handled better and theyve apologised to Mr S. 
Theyve also paid £150 to compensate for the inconvenience and distress caused.
Mr S says that the restriction prevented him trading and as a result he missed out on several 
hundreds of pounds. He would like Barclays to increase their offer.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Barclays had asked for a copy of a 
valid driving licence in their original request and noted Mr S had sent a copy of a photocard 
licence that had expired. Our investigator thought it was likely that Mr S had been sent a 
letter in July, but even if it hadnt been sent, she thought the compensation offered by 
Barclays was fair and reasonable.
Mr S disagrees with the view. He says Barclays should have taken steps earlier to notify him 
about the invalidity of his expired driving licence. He maintains that the restriction caused 
delay in trades being placed, resulting in a loss for which he seeks compensation.
As the parties disagree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the original request for identity documentation sent in May 2019. Mr S was 
asked to complete and return an Investor Information Form along with proof of identity, 
which could include a copy of a valid photocard driving licence. The letter explained in bold 
that if identity information wasnt provided, restrictions could be placed on the account in the 
future. In my view, the information in the letter was clear and it was for Mr S to comply with 
the request.
It isnt disputed that Mr S replied to this letter in June, but a copy of an expired driving 
licence rather than a valid driving licence was sent. As Barclays only had a copy of an 
expired driving licence, I dont think it was unreasonable to restrict the account given the 
warning in the original correspondence. 
I agree that Barclays could have alerted Mr S about the invalidity of the documentation hed 
sent in, at an earlier stage. Barclays have said that bulk mail was sent to investors in July 
about invalid documentation, but I havent seen anything to show that a letter was sent to Mr 
S. Mr S has consistently said that he only became aware of a problem with the information 
hed sent in, in October 2019 when the restrictions were in place. So, whilst its possible that 
Mr S didnt receive a letter in July, Ive had to balance that against the clear terms in the 
original information request. 
Barclays also accept that an error was made when they contacted Mr S in November for the 
same identity documentation. 
Overall, I think there were some communication shortcomings here, for which Barclays have 
apologised. So, Ive looked to see what steps Barclays have taken to put things right.
Mr S says he lost out because of delays in trades being placed. Looking at the timeline, it 
appears that Mr S only encountered problems on his account for a short period of time. The 
statements hes provided show that he was able to buy and sell some shares on 15 October. 
When Mr S raised a concern with Barclays about the restriction on his account, they took 
prompt steps to enable him to undertake a one-time trade on 18 October. I havent seen 
anything to show that Mr S contacted Barclays earlier and I cant now say if or when Mr S 
would have placed a different trade. On balance, I think Barclays acted reasonably here 
placing a one-off trade at Mr Ss request and fast tracking the new documents. In my view, 
there isnt enough to show that Mr S lost out financially. 
I appreciate this was a frustrating situation and Mr S was put to the inconvenience of having 
to progress this matter. Barclays have offered and paid Mr S a total of £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience he has been caused. Overall, I consider thats fair and reasonable, so I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman