DRN-2069377
The complaint
Mr E complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) gave poor customer service when he raised a 
chargeback request.
What happened
Mr E says that he was incorrectly charged for gym membership fees and approached TSB to 
arrange a chargeback. Mr E says that TSB failed to read his request form and email 
correctly which had already given them the information they needed to complete the 
chargeback, and this delayed the refund to his bank account. Mr E feels that TSB have 
discriminated against him and made him feel like a criminal and have now suggested he 
banks elsewhere. Mr E had previously informed TSB that he suffers with mental health 
issues and believes because of this TSB have decided they no longer want him as a 
customer. Mr E says that TSB should compensate him for the stress and inconvenience they 
have caused him.
TSB say that while there was confusion over the initial communication received from Mr E, 
they refunded him immediately when he explained the issue and therefore feel they have 
done nothing wrong. TSB in their final response letter suggested to Mr E he may wish to 
consider alternative banking arrangements if he feels they are unable to meet his 
expectations. 
Mr E was unhappy with TSBs response and asked for the matter to be referred to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that TSB had acted promptly when the chargeback details were clarified. 
The investigator says that TSB are able to close Mr Es bank account provided they give 
appropriate notice but couldnt see any evidence to support they have discriminated against 
him. The investigator didnt feel that a compensation payment was necessary. 
Mr E wasnt happy with the view of the investigator and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if TSB failed to act reasonably when they 
were asked to complete a chargeback for Mr E. I have also looked at whether TSB have 
discriminated against Mr E when suggesting he considers alternative banking arrangements.
I was sorry to hear that Mr E suffers from mental health issues and that going through a 
chargeback process could be stressful for him.  
What happened here is that Mr Es gym had incorrectly claimed for membership fees for a 
period he didnt have access to the gym facilities. Mr E says that when he realised this, he 
asked TSB to complete a chargeback to obtain a refund by completing their form and by 
sending additional information on a separate email. Its worth mentioning that the 
chargeback process is a voluntary arrangement entered into by banks, there is no obligation 
for TSB to arrange the chargeback here,   although when there is a good chance of success, 
we would expect banks like TSB, to help its customers. 
I can see that Mr E completed TSBs form and TSB subsequently asked for additional 
information from him,  although this had already been provided to them in a separate email 
by Mr E. Mr E maintains that the form, he completed didnt provide the opportunity to provide 
this extra information - so TSB were wrong in asking for it. There was also some 
misunderstanding as to when the payment had been debited to Mr Es bank account and this 
needed clarifying. What is important here is the fact, from the time Mr E lodged his request 
for a chargeback to the time TSB refunded him was a matter of eight days. I am satisfied 
that this is not an unreasonable length of time to have resolved the matter for Mr E.
From the information I have seen rather than any errors being made by TSB there was 
simply a  misunderstanding which while unfortunate doesnt necessarily mean a 
compensation payment is due and I dont think it does here. I am satisfied that from the 
information I have seen Mr E hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result. 
As far as Mr Es view that TSB made accusations about his integrity  I cant see any 
evidence to support that nor his claim that TSB have discriminated against him because of 
his mental health issues. I have seen a letter from TSB to Mr E, which may be what Mr E is 
referring to, when in the  letter TSB suggest he may wish to make alternative banking 
arrangements.   
All banks, like TSB,  can decide if they wish to terminate banking arrangements without 
reason, provided they give suitable notice to do so. In this instance TSB have said Mr E may 
wish to find another banking provider who may be better placed to meet his banking 
requirements. Sadly, there are occasions when banking relationships breakdown and TSB 
seem to suggest this was the case here and they wouldnt be able to provide the level of 
service Mr E is looking for going forward. 
Its not my role to tell TSB who they must have as customers, in the same way Mr E can 
choose to bank elsewhere if he chooses to. It follows that I am satisfied that TSB havent 
suggested Mr E should bank elsewhere because of his mental health issues, its more of a 
case they dont feel able to provide the service levels he requires in the future. 
I am pleased to hear that Mr E has now found an alternative bank and I hope this new 
banking relationship works out for him. 
While Mr E will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
TSB. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman