DRN-1955618
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a personal loan.
What happened
Miss T took out the PPI in March 2003. Her recollection is that she took out the loan and PPI 
in branch. Nationwide says its likely that the loan was arranged in branch with the PPI 
subsequently being sold over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint, Nationwide disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of Payment Protection 
Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy terms state that, to be eligible for cover, an applicant had to have been in 
continuous employment for six months immediately before the start date.
At the time of the sale Miss T was in a job that she started on 1 October 2002. The date of 
the PPI sale was 6 March 2003. Therefore Miss T had been in her job for just over five 
months. Miss T told us that she wasnt working prior to the sale, having been made 
redundant in March 2002. She has provided evidence of being made redundant on 8 March 
2002. Miss T has also provided information about her historic national insurance (NI) 
contributions. This shows that she was in receipt of NI credits, denoting that she was 
unemployed, during some of the 2001-02 and 2002-03 tax years.
Nationwide has said that it is safe to assume that Miss Ts period of unemployment ran 
continuously, therefore it would be fair to say that the 25 weeks of NI credits shown for the 
second year ran from the beginning of the 2002-03 tax year, that being 6 April 2002. 
Therefore, it is likely that Miss T started work on 30 September 2002, which means that she 
would have been continuously employed for six months when she took out the loan and PPI. 
This is incorrect. Miss T would have needed to have started work on 6 September 2002 in 
order for her to have been working for six months.
Although there are some minor inconsistencies between the information that Nationwide has 
recorded and the account provided by Miss T, overall I am persuaded by Miss Ts 
recollection of her employment status. Looking at the available evidence, Im satisfied that 
Miss T had not been in continuous employment for six months at the time she was sold the 
PPI.
As Miss T wasnt eligible for the policy, Nationwide should not have sold it to her. I therefore 
consider that the PPI was mis-sold to Miss T.
Putting things right
Miss T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been. She 
paid more than she should have each month and it cost more to repay the loan than it would 
have. So Miss T needs to be put in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI and get back the extra she paid.
So Nationwide should:
Work out and pay Miss T the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would have paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Miss T the difference between what it cost her to pay off the loan 
and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss T paid from when she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Miss T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount owed to her. It can also deduct any amounts 
its already paid regarding commission and profit share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman