DRN-3397604
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the way Premier Insurance Company Limited (Premier) dealt 
with a claim she made under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs H reported an incident which happened in December 2019. No other 
party was involved. Mrs H said she obtained an estimate for the repairs which came to just 
under £2,000. As this was a significant sum, Mrs H wanted to claim under her policy for 
repairs. 
Mrs Hs car was being paid for under a finance agreement in her husbands name.
Premier instructed an engineer to inspect Mrs Hs car and he reported that it wasnt 
economical to repair. The engineer wasnt able to start the car to check the odometer. So he 
based his market valuation of the car on average mileage. The engineer used the trade 
value for the car rather than the retail transacted valuation. He said there was evidence of 
previous poor repairs and non-incident related damage. The engineer described the 
condition of the car as poor for its age. 
In March 2020 Premier said it would settle the claim by paying a market value of £6,450 
minus a deduction for the excess and no MOT (it had expired two months before the 
incident). Premier asked Mrs H to obtain a final settlement figure from the finance company 
 as they owned the vehicle. 
Between April 2020 and November 2020 Mrs H contacted Premier. She complained about 
the valuation as she said the car was worth more and she owed more than the sum to the 
finance company. Mrs H was unhappy that the finance settlement wasnt cleared as she 
believed shed given authority for the finance company and Premier to deal directly with 
each other to settle the finance. She complained about the lack of updates and poor service. 
Mrs H said she wanted to retain the car and said she hasnt received notification that the car 
has been salvaged. 
Premier settled the claim with the finance company in December 2020. The settlement sum 
wasnt enough to clear the finance. 
In June 2021 Premier upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part. It said the valuation was correct. But 
it accepted it had caused delays. Premier said it had explained that the decision to salvage 
the car rested with the finance company as they owned the car. 
Premier said proof of destruction is not provided to a customer once a claim has been 
settled as they no longer hold a financial interest in the car. 
For the delays it caused, Premier paid Mrs H £150 compensation. 
Mrs H remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said she couldnt afford 
to buy a replacement car and lost her job as she needed a car to drive to work. She said the 
finance company contacted Premier but didnt get a reply from it. She wants Premier to pay 
the finance settlement in full. She remains unhappy that she hasnt received evidence of the 
destruction or salvage of the car. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Premier 
should carry out a valuation based on the actual mileage of Mrs Hs car which was lower 
than the average. And that Premier should ask an engineer to assess the pre-accident 
damage and only deduct 50% of the repair costs from the market valuation. On this basis, 
the Investigator recommended Premier pay interest at 8% simple interest a year on the 
difference from the date of the incident to the date of payment. 
The Investigator recommended Premier pay a further £100 compensation as he thought a 
total of £250 compensation reflected its delays and poor service to Mrs H. 
Premier accepted the Investigators view. Mrs H didnt agree. In summary she believes the 
engineers report was written retrospectively and the car was unnecessarily written off. She 
isnt convinced the car has been written off. Mrs H says the impact of Premiers handling of 
the claim has been awful. Her view is that the car is worth more and Premier should settle 
the finance companys outstanding balance in full. 
In response to the Investigators view, Premier has written to Mrs H to pay the additional 
£100 compensation and an additional £736.19 as the difference in the valuation with the 
correct mileage with interest. Premier says the difference was £620 plus £116.19 interest. 
It hasnt commented on the Investigators recommendation to deduct 50% of the costs for 
the pre-accidental damage. 
Mrs H is unhappy that Premier has contacted her when she asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
Our Investigator contacted Premier. Premier said it believed it should action the 
Investigators recommendations. Our Investigator asked Premier not to take any further 
action and to await a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read of Mrs Hs circumstances. My role is to take an even handed approach to 
the information provided by both parties  and to decide whether the insurer has acted 
reasonably. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides and they show that the valuation the engineer carried 
out based on average mileage and actual mileage was correct using one of them. The 
guides provided a trade guide and retail transacted guide. For the guide the engineer 
relied on, these came to £7,070 (trade) for mileage of 24,216 as per the odometer from the 
vehicle images  and £6,450 for the average mileage of 38,000. Premier relied on the 
valuation of £6,450 when settling Mrs Hs claim. 
When deciding a fair valuation for a car, we think an insurer should use the retail transacted 
valuation as a starting point. This is the average value that Mrs H  or anyone  might pay 
for a similar car from a retail garage. 
We think its fair for an insurer to take a reasonable deduction from a total loss settlement for 
any non-related incident damage  otherwise it amounts to betterment. 
Ive seen the images of Mrs Hs car provided by the engineer. I agree that it was in poor 
condition immediately before the incident. But in this case I havent seen the justification for 
the engineers decision to simply use the trade value. 
The retail transacted (market) values came to £8,610 and £8,010 respectively. This means 
that Premier deducted £1,540 for pre-accident damage: being the difference between the 
trade guide and the retail transacted guide for the correct mileage. We checked another available motor guide and this gave a trade guide of £6,725 and a retail 
guide of £9,625, based on the correct mileage. In line with our approach we think an insurer 
should take the average of the available guides rather than relying on just one.
It may be that  when broken down  the deduction for-pre accident damage amounts to 
more or less than the £1,540 Premier deducted. But Premier needs to show that it has 
reached its decision to make the deduction in a fair way by providing a detailed estimate of 
the costs to repair the pre-accident damage And in line with our approach, it should then 
reduce the estimate for pre-accident damage repairs by 50% before deducting it from the 
final settlement sum. 
Since the Investigators view, Premier has paid Mrs H £736.19, being £620 as the difference 
in the trade valuations for mileage with interest of £116.19. But Ive no way of knowing 
whether the trade values that the engineer relied on fairly reflects 50% of the pre accident 
damage repair costs. So my decision is in line with the Investigators view and set out below.
Premier has written to Mrs H to pay the additional £100 compensation as recommended by 
the Investigator. I think its clear that Premier caused unreasonable delays in failing to 
progress the claim. 
I can see that it asked for details of the finance settlement from Mrs H in March 2020 and 
November 2020. 
Mrs H said that the finance company settlement sum had been provided to Premier long 
before it settled the claim. The Investigator asked Mrs H to provide proof of this so that we 
could consider the matter further. Mrs H said she hasnt been able to afford the time to find 
the information. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think a compensation award of £250 is reasonable for the 
distress and inconvenience Premier caused Mrs H. 
I understand Mrs H wants Premier to pay the final settlement to the finance company in full. 
But Premier isnt required to do this. Its obligation under the policy is to pay the market value 
for the car at the time of loss. 
I cannot ask Premier to provide details of the salvage or destruction of the car to Mrs H as it 
has settled the claim and Mrs H isnt the legal owner of the car. 
The engineers report is dated March 2020  and I can see that Premier wrote to Mrs H in 
March 2020 to confirm the valuation in line with the engineers report. I understand Mrs H is 
unhappy because she says she asked for a copy of the report a number of times before it 
was sent to her. But there isnt anything to show me that the engineers report was written 
retrospectively. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Premier Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Reassess the settlement it paid for Mrs Hs car based on the retail transacted 
sum of the available guides  so using an average of £9,625 and £8,610 (based 
on the correct mileage). 
Provide a detailed estimate of the pre-accident damage repair costs to Mrs H as 
a deduction : then reduce it by 50%.
If there is a difference owed to what Premier has already paid, Premier should 
pay the difference with interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the 
date Mrs H made her claim to the date of payment. 
If it hasnt already paid it, Premier should pay Mrs H an additional £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays, bringing the total compensation sum to £250. 
Premier Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Premier Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman