DRN-4036896
The complaint
Mrs T complains that ReAssure Life Limited (ReAssure) failed to apply a single contribution 
she made to her pension in a timely manner. Mrs T says ReAssures delays in sorting things 
out, including giving her online access to her policy, has caused a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience, which she wants compensating for.
What happened
The facts and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known by both parties and 
arent disputed. So briefly:
In February 2022 Mrs T made a one-off contribution of £47,000 to her pension. Despite 
being initially told that her existing policy would accept the payment, ReAssure then said that 
the monies would have to be applied to a separate top-up policy because her existing policy 
couldnt accept single payments.
In March 2022 Mrs T complained to ReAssure because the funds still hadnt been applied to 
her new policy. 
In May 2022 ReAssure acknowledged that it had made a mistake. It said it was in the 
process of removing the money from Mrs Ts existing policy to a new one, but that it was 
taking longer than expected. It said the payment would nevertheless be added at the date it 
was received to ensure Mrs T would lose out financially. It offered Mrs T £250 by way of an 
apology for the inconvenience caused.
Because things still hadnt been sorted out, in June 2022 Mrs T brought her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at all of this and they said that ReAssures proposal to 
backdate the payment when it was applied to her new policy was the right thing to do to 
ensure Mrs T didnt lose out. But they acknowledged that the lack of certainty and clarity 
prior to ReAssure responding to her complaint caused distress and inconvenience, and that 
things were taking longer to sort out than was appropriate. They said in the circumstances 
ReAssures offer of £250 compensation to recognise this was fair.
In October 2022 ReAssure said that Mrs Ts contribution was paid into her policy and on 
8 November 2022 it sent Mrs T a letter providing her with an up-to-date fund value.
Because Mrs T said she still hadnt been granted on-line access to her pension account, she 
asked for an ombudsman to review things.
In an attempt to resolve things informally, I asked ReAssure to increase its offer of 
compensation to £500, which I believe is a fair way to settle matters. And ReAssure agreed. 
But Mrs T didnt agree  she believes £750 is fair. Its therefore necessary for me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because ReAssure has now correctly applied Mrs Ts pension contribution backdating it to 
the date she made the payment, and I understand that Mrs T also now has online access to 
her pension account, the only issue for me to decide here is the level of compensation to 
fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience ReAssures delays and mistakes in this matter 
have caused Mrs T.
It's clear to me that Mrs T has suffered a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience 
here and it has taken ReAssure an unreasonable amount of time to put things right. Mrs T 
was given incorrect information by ReAssure from the outset about how her payment would 
be applied. She then spent time and effort trying to resolve things prior to her bringing the 
matter to our attention. And given the considerable sum of money Mrs T entrusted ReAssure 
with, its clear this was a frustrating and distressing time. And while ReAssures letter of May 
2022 acknowledged its mistake and its proposal to put things right wouldve likely given 
Mrs T some reassurance that she wouldnt lose out financially as far as her pension 
contribution went, it took ReAssure several months before it finally applied Mrs Ts pension 
payment correctly. And before doing so it sent Mrs T an incorrect letter saying her pension 
value was zero. Im mindful too that it wasnt until sometime after November 2022 that 
ReAssure provided Mrs T with online access to her account.
So taking all of this into account, and to recognise the considerable distress and 
inconvenience caused, I think an award of £500 is fair in all the circumstances. I can see that 
Mrs T feels that £750 would be more appropriate and has referred to ReAssures failure to 
communicate effectively with her and the significant stress and anxiety caused during this 
time. But Im satisfied that, taking account of the impact this matter has had on Mrs T, as 
well as being mindful that Mrs Ts complaint was with us for a period of the delay, £500 is fair 
in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
ReAssure should pay Mrs T £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct ReAssure Life 
Limited to put things right as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman