DRN-3331223
The complaint
Mrs H complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Fashion World (J D 
Williams) irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 27 October 2018, Mrs H applied for a credit account with J D Williams. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £175. The credit limit was increased eight times by July 2020 to 
£2500. 
In 2020, Mrs H complained to J D Williams to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that J D Williams ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs H didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mrs Hs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mrs H has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. J D Williams has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that J D Williams failed to make adequate checks before providing Mrs H 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused J D 
Williams to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest. There were three underpayments early 
on in the life of the account, but they were for very small amounts (less than £14 in total 
over the three instances). But subsequently through all of the credit increases the account 
was well managed, the payments were mostly above the minimum amounts required 
(sometimes substantially so) and Mrs H was not using the full credit limit available to her. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs H to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led J D Williams to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs H was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that they way Mrs H was 
managing her account or what J D Williams could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Mrs H to know that I listened to all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman