DRN-1637135
The complaint
Mrs M (through her son Mr M) complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible 
for poor service in connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Mrs M had British Gas cover for kitchen appliances including a washing machine. She called 
for help with that machine. She complained about the response from British Gas.
In its final response in October 2019, British Gas didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. So she 
brought it to us later that month.
At first our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that  from the initial claim submission and the phone calls - it wasnt apparent that the 
washing machine wasnt working.
Later the investigator changed his view. He recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought that British Gas cancelled an appointment on the day it was scheduled. 
When British Gas attended, it should've recognised there was a bigger problem sooner.
The investigator recommended that British Gas should pay Mrs M £70.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It says, in summary, that Mrs M didnt say the machine wasnt working.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered repair or  if British Gas was unable to repair  a financial contribution 
towards a replacement machine. In the case of a machine over three years old the 
contribution was 30% of the cost of the replacement.
On 2 September 2019 Mr or Mrs M called British Gas for help. British Gas recorded the 
problem as the machine running slow. British Gas arranged a visit for 9 September 2019.
But British Gas rang on that morning to rearrange the visit. British Gas has said that it 
prioritised visits to other customers. And it says it paid Mrs M £10.00 compensation.
On 16 September 2019 British Gas visited, replaced suspensions legs on the machine and 
made a note tested ok.
On 18 September 2019 Mr or Mrs M called British Gas to say the machine was noisy. There 
was no mention that it wasnt working. So I find it likely that it was still working at that date. 
But it was only two days after the visit. And Mrs M didnt think the machine was working 
properly.
British Gas visited again on 3 October 2019. On that visit, British Gas said the machine 
needed a spare part that was obsolete. So it involved its appliance replacement team.
From what British Gas says, its 30% contribution was about £182.00. On 8 October 2019 
Mrs M had a new washing machine installed.
I note that only a short period expired from 16 September when British Gas said the machine 
was ok to 18 September when Mr and Mrs M said it wasnt working properly and to 3 
October when British Gas said the machine was beyond repair. 
So I find it likely that British Gas ought to have done more testing on its visit on 16 
September.
I accept that - after that visit - Mrs M was without a properly working washing machine for 
about three weeks. And that was inconvenient for her and her family. But shes not been 
clear about when she stopped using the machine. And in any event, she had only told British 
Gas that the machine was noisy.
Putting things right
Overall I find £70.00 fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
British Gas caused Mrs M by cancelling its visit on 9 September and by not doing more 
testing on 16 September.
If British Gas has already paid £10.00 then I will allow it to deduct that from the £70.00.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M  insofar as it hasnt already paid her - 
£70.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman