DRN-3867675
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as R, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr R, as one of the directors of R, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr R is also 
represented in this complaint but for ease, I will refer only to R or Mr R in this decision. 
What happened 
R is an employment agency. In May 2020, R contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business 
interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. R said that as a result of the Government 
restrictions imposed in March 2020, it had to close its business, which resulted in a loss of 
revenue.  Hiscox rejected the claim, as it said R was not required to close. 
In June 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings 
and how they should respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in the test 
case had the same wording as Rs policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its 
judgment in January 2021. 
R resubmitted its claim to Hiscox in February 2021. Hiscox reconsidered Rs claim, following 
that judgment, but it maintained its refusal of the claim, as it did not think the outcome of Rs 
claim was impacted by the case. 
Hiscox said the policy provided cover under the Public Authority section of the policy for 
losses arising as a result of R not being able to use its premises following closure by a public 
authority. However, Hiscox said that R was not one of the types of business that was 
required to close as part of the Governments restrictions and had been permitted to 
continue to operate. 
Hiscox also considered if there was cover under a non-damage denial of access clause 
which covers denial of access of the insured premises as a result of a specific incident within 
a mile radius of the premises. Hiscox said R was not denied access of its premises as a 
result of an incident and so this section of cover would not apply to the claim either. Hiscox 
said that all other parts of the business interruption section of cover require there to have 
bene damage to property and so also would not apply to Rs claim. 
Mr R is very unhappy about this and the time take by Hiscox to deal with the matter. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claims. The Investigator said 
that whilst R may have suffered business interruption, and a loss of income, it was not a type 
of business that had been required to close by the Government, so it had not been caused 
an inability to use its premises, as required by the policy. The Investigator didnt think the 
claims were covered under any other part of the policy either. 
Mr R does not accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions 
in the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered everything Mr R 
has said but have summarised the main points below: 
It has a high street premises and has a significant amount of walk-in business. As all 
non-essential retail business was mandated to close by the Government in March 
2020, it had to close the premises and lost all walk-in business. 
It also incurred increased costs of working in order to enable staff to work remotely. 
Hiscox provided misleading information regarding the matter, which has caused 
stress and anxiety. 
Hiscox has taken unreasonable time dealing with the matter, including responding to 
the complaint. 
R has asked for the claim to be met, with interest, and that Hiscox provide an apology and 
compensation for the delays and distress and upset caused to the directors by its handling of 
the claim. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Rs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Rs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require damage to the insured premises or property 
nearby. I have considered the sections of cover that both parties consider are relevant to this 
claim below: 
Public Authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority  
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Rs was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Rs business alone. The court also made it clear that it 
may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to use its 
premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this policy term would provide 
cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or 
for a discrete part of its business. 
In my opinion it is clear from the quote above that the court determined that impairment or 
hindrance of use would not be enough to trigger cover under these terms; the inability to use 
the premises, or a discrete part of them, would have to be absolute. 
So the question is whether or not R suffered an inability to use its premises. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant, as they set out which businesses were required by the 
Government to close in March 2020. 
Rs business doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically 
mentioned in the March Regulations, either as being a business that was required to close or 
that was permitted to stay open. Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine 
whether it is reasonable to conclude that R was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were pubs, theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These businesses would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
I do not think that Rs business, as it has been described, would fall into the same category. 
R did have high street premises which could accommodate walk-in business but I dont think 
this would amount to a shop or showroom in the same way as the businesses that were 
required to close. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I am satisfied that Rs employees and any clients that might need 
to attend its premises, would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work when 
attending the premises. 
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, I think it is reasonable to conclude that R was not required to close its 
premises, or any discrete part of its premises, as a result of the Government regulations.   
The regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an impact 
and meant R had to adapt the way it used the premises and demand for Rs services might 
have fallen but there was no inability to use its premises. And as such, I do not consider 
Hiscox acted unreasonably in declining Rs claim under this section of cover. 
Non-damage denial of access This part off the policy covers business interruption losses caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the 
insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
I dont intend to make a finding on whether Rs access to the insured premises was hindered 
or prevented because I dont think that any restrictions were as a result of an incident. 
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need 
for an incident: 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: something 
which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular way ...an 
incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse of 
language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a one 
mile radius of the insured premises. 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, variegated, 
prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it is a misnomer 
purposes of the clause. 
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as 
the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. 
Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In 
our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for 
an incident. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider 
that there was an incident within the vicinity which prevented or hindered Rs access to its 
premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause 
doesnt cover Rs claim.
Time taken to deal with the claim 
The claim was made in May 2020 and refused shortly afterwards. R resubmitted the claim in 
February 2021 and refused again in June 2021. R also says that Hiscox provided misleading 
information about the merits of submitting a claim at the outset, which caused anxiety and 
stress to the directors. 
I can only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a 
financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a 
limited company, rather than any individual. A limited company cannot suffer distress or frustration. So, I cannot consider the impact on Rs directors personally of the way the claim 
was handled. 
While there was some delay in giving a response after the claim was resubmitted in 2021, I 
do not think this warrants any compensation. And I have not seen any further evidence to 
support that R was misled in any way.
R has also asked for an apology from Hiscox. I dont intend to ask Hiscox to apologise to R. 
Even if I thought Hiscox had acted unfairly and an apology was appropriate, a forced 
apology would have no meaning.  
R also says there was delay in dealing the complaint. The rules we operate under list the 
activities which we can consider and complaint-handling is not one of them. 
I appreciate this is a matter Mr R feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on R. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman