DRN-3121252
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) decided not to pursue their 
neighbour for the excess on their claim following an escape of water which originated in the 
neighbours property.
Mr B and Ms M had buildings and contents insurance with UKI. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease and because Mr B dealt with the complaint, Ill refer only to him 
throughout my decision.
What happened
In brief, Mr B claimed under his policy for damage to a party wall caused by an escape of 
water from his neighbours house. UKI accepted the claim and completed repairs. Mr B 
asked UKI to pursue his neighbours insurer for his excess and the increase in premiums, 
and to remove any record of the claim from his policy because the damage was caused 
through no fault of his own. He believed it was due to his neighbours negligence. 
UKI looked into recovering costs from the neighbours insurer but decided not to pursue the 
claim due to lack of evidence.
Mr B complained about the way it had handled this matter, suggesting UKI couldve done 
more because it was also his neighbours insurer. He didnt think it had considered the policy 
terms properly or asked for evidence, and its approach to recovery caused his neighbour to 
deny previously accepted responsibility.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said although UKI also insured Mr Bs 
neighbour, it didnt have any more right to investigate the matter than any other insurer 
would. Our investigator thought UKI had presented a fair reason for not pursuing the claim 
against the neighbour and he didnt think it needed to do any more.
Mr B didnt agree, and he provided a link to footage of his neighbours property and still 
frames of the areas where the damage occurred. He thought the evidence demonstrated 
that his neighbour was negligent because the escape of water hadnt been stopped or 
repaired promptly.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill be clear about UKIs position regarding this matter. It insured both Mr B and his 
neighbour, but that doesnt mean it couldve accessed the neighbours account or demanded 
entry to their home to investigate. I realise Mr B might find that odd, but UKI could only act 
as any other insurer would: that wouldnt have included any unauthorised access to the 
neighbours personal information or a right to enter their home.
In response to Mr Bs request for it to pursue his neighbour, UKI sent a letter to them 
proposing legal action. Mr B says the letter caused his neighbour to deny liability. Ive looked 
at the letter, which was quite strongly worded. But UKI explained to Mr B that the letter was 
an attempt to get his neighbour to cooperate, although it didnt hold much hope that it would 
prompt the desired response. And UKI also explained that it couldnt act on the suggestion of 
legal action because it didnt have any evidence to support Mr Bs claim of negligence.
Ive thought carefully about this. UKI sent what appears to be a template letter for this type of 
scenario to try to prompt a helpful response from Mr Bs neighbour. I havent seen anything 
to suggest UKI misled Mr B about its intentions or that it expected a more favourable 
response. While Mr B says it caused the relationship with his neighbour to become strained, 
where before it was polite, I cant reasonably say thats UKIs fault. Mr B asked UKI to 
pursue the matter, even though his neighbour had already offered to reimburse the excess 
payment. Theres simply no way of knowing what the neighbours reaction wouldve been 
had the letter taken a softer tone. So, on balance, I cant see that UKI did anything wrong. 
Mr B says UKI shouldve held his neighbour liable under their own policy for failing to take 
additional measures to stop the escape of water or prevent further damage. I understand Mr 
Bs point. Hes looked at his own responsibilities under his policy and concluded that his 
neighbour, with the same insurer, wouldve had similar responsibilities. I dont know what 
policy Mr Bs neighbour had and its not for me to make assumptions about what was 
included in the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think that matters here. Thats 
because there would need to be evidence that the neighbour had caused the damage to Mr 
Bs home before UKI would pursue any issue of liability, and whether or not UKI covered the 
neighbours damage under the policy is irrelevant to Mr Bs claim.
That brings me to the next point. Mr B thinks UKI let him down by not investigating what he 
believed was his neighbours negligence. He thinks his neighbour continued to use the water 
even after he made them aware of the damage to his walls. Mr B provided a plumbers 
report and hes recently provided links to footage showing evidence of water stains on the 
shared wall and ceiling. UKI said it didnt have evidence to take forward a liability claim.
The plumbers report describes the source of the leak and explains that most of the affected 
area was concealed. Ive looked at the photos and footage for which Mr B provided a link. 
They show the adjoining wall inside his neighbours house which has water stains and 
evidence of maintenance requirements. But the stains do not provide evidence that Mr Bs 
neighbour failed to stop the leak or prevent further damage. The water stains simply show 
evidence that theres been a leak in the past. I dont think this supports Mr Bs view that the 
neighbour was aware of a leak and failed to act upon it. So, I think its reasonable that UKI 
concluded there was insufficient evidence to pursue a liability claim.
Finally, Ill respond to some of Mr Bs recent points. He said he wasnt made aware of UKIs 
internal policy to to pursue recovery from other UKI policyholders. UKI confirmed that such a 
policy doesnt exist, and it will only pursue recovery where the evidence allows. Im satisfied 
that its letter to Mr Bs neighbour in response to his request for it to pursue a claim for 
negligence (discussed earlier) supports this.
Mr B says UKI didnt exercise its right to ask for information from his neighbour under the 
clause for liability. The clause would only come into effect if the neighbour claimed under 3 
Liability Claims of their own policy. Any claim Mr Bs neighbour may or not make is outside 
my scope for consideration of this complaint. I can only sympathise with Mr Bs position. He suffered damaged to his property through no 
fault of his own and, while the damage was, thankfully, covered under his insurance policy, 
he had to pay the excess and his premium increased. I understand why this wouldve 
frustrated him and he reasonably wants to hold someone accountable. But the evidence 
doesnt support his complaint. UKI would only pursue his neighbour if there was evidence of 
negligence and Mr B simply hasnt been able to provide that. The neighbour hasnt denied 
that the leak came from their house, but they have denied failing to repair promptly. It seems 
that this is an unfortunate event, but I havent seen anything to persuade me that UKI has 
done anything wrong by not pursuing Mr Bs neighbour for negligence. I wont be asking UKI 
to do any more and I see no reason for it to remove the claim from Mr Bs records.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman