DRN-2232543
The complaint
This complaint is about Mrs As mortgage and linked current account with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Mrs A is unhappy that Barclays is insisting she return an overpayment balance of 
nearly £4,200 that was refunded to her before it will reinstate the overdraft facility on the 
current account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision, I set out the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint. The relevant extract from the provisional decision is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. That hasnt extended to obtaining and 
listening to recordings of phone calls. Im satisfied I can decide this complaint fairly on the 
basis of the evidence in front of me.
The mortgage and linked current account (known as a mortgage current account or MCA 
for short) work in tandem to accommodate the total credit limit that Barclays is willing to 
provide to its borrower. If the amount outstanding on one goes up, then unless the bank is 
willing to increase the overall limit, then the limit on the other must come down by a 
corresponding amount. Thats known as re-balancing.
Refunding the overpayment that had accumulated on the main mortgage caused the 
balance on that account to go up. Initially, the refund was credited to the MCA, reducing the 
MCA balance by the same amount so the overall debt wasnt affected. But the re-balancing 
requirement meant Barclays then needed to reduce the MCA limit, to ensure the overall debt 
couldnt then go up again.
If the overpayment refund had simply been reversed, then both accounts would have been 
restored to their earlier balances, and the MCA limit could have been re-instated under 
re-balancing. But the overpayment refund wasnt simply reversed; it was reversed and then 
refunded again, this time to an external bank account. So the main mortgage balance went 
up by the amount of the refund but crucially this time the MCA balance didnt come down. 
I think its fair to say neither refund should have happened; I think both parties can agree that 
this was Barclays mistake. Its a mistake that has caused Mrs A a lot of stress and worry, 
and its right that Barclays should have offered to compensate her for that. Its made an offer 
of £250, plus £50 to cover call costs. I have to decide if Barclays should do more.
The overall debt has now gone up, beyond what Barclays considers acceptable, which is 
why its insisting Mrs A return the refunded overpayment before it will restore the MCA limit. 
To do so without having the money back would be to sanction an increase in overall debt. 
Meanwhile, to simply write the overpayment off altogether - as Mrs A is asking for  would 
be to overcompensate her for the banks error. 
I dont order Barclays to write off the MCA balance, and it need only reinstate the limit on it if 
Mrs A returns the refunded overpayment. I have no power to order Mrs A to do that, but if 
she were to do so, then Barclays should then reinstate the MCA limit.
In my view, the offer of £300 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs A has gone 
through as a result of this sequence of events; that includes the letters she received from 
Barclays asking her to repay the MCA altogether. I cant fairly say that Barclays mustnt 
resume its efforts to recover the MCA debt; subject to its ongoing duty to treat customers 
fairly. That said, if an agreement is reached whereby Mrs A repays the refunded amount and 
the MCA limit is restored, then there should be no reason for any further such letters. 
Lastly, Barclays agreed to clear any adverse information from Mrs As credit file for 
April 2019, the month in which this happened, and I think it was right to do that. But I dont 
consider the business needs to remove any adverse information recorded since. It made a 
reasonable offer to resolve the complaint in May 2019.
I gave the parties until 18 September 2020 to make any further submissions before I 
finalised my decision; both have responded. Barclays was in broad agreement, saying that if 
Mrs A returned the money, the MCA limit would be restored automatically by the normal 
re-balancing process. It also asked that I confirm it had acted correctly throughout the 
complaint process. Mrs A made a number of points, which I summarise below:
Barclays should reimburse the interest (a little over £380) shes been charged on the 
MCA overdraft whilst the complaint has been under review;
She wants to know why her mortgage interest payments have gone up due to the case 
investigation;
She wants the name and address of our contact at Barclays:
Shed like to know what will happen if she doesnt return the overpayment, and exactly 
what sum her overdraft limit will be restored to if she does; and
Full details of any settlement that follows my decision needs to documented in writing by 
Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked afresh at everything that both parties have said and provided, including the 
parties responses to the provisional decision. Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart 
from my provisional conclusions; but I will comment on Mrs As points.
Theres no fair basis for me to order Barclays to reimburse the interest thats accrued on the 
MCA overdraft; its a valid debt on which interest is contractually due. 
My decision can only deal with issues raised in the complaint that was addressed in the final 
response and referred to us in 2019. If Mrs A is unhappy about changes in her mortgage 
payment since then, she would need to raise a fresh complaint with Barclays and refer it to 
us for separate consideration if not happy with the banks response.
We dont routinely disclose the details of the contacts we have with financial businesses to 
consumers and I dont consider theres any reason to do so here. It has no relevance to how 
I consider this complaint should fairly be resolved.I cant pre-empt what might happen in the future if Mrs A chooses not to return the 
overpayment. That would be a matter for Barclays commercial judgement. All I can add here 
is a reminder that Mrs A is entitled to fair treatment, and could complain afresh if she thought 
she wasnt receiving it.
Barclays has given an indication that if Mrs A returned the overpayment, the overall 
borrowing would be restored automatically to around £51,000. But the exact amount of the 
overdraft limit can only be determined once payment has been received, as the mortgage 
account and MCA are live and subject to daily variations due to payments received and 
ongoing interest accrual. Its not something that I can prescribe. But if Mrs A does repay the 
money, then I would expect Barclays to provide the necessary written confirmation of the 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that, provided Mrs A returns the overpayment within 30 days of 
confirming her acceptance of this decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC should credit the money 
to the mortgage account and reinstate her MCA limit to the maximum level permitted under 
its total credit limit, taking into account any movements in the account balances that have 
taken place since the complaint started in April 2019. It should then notify Mrs A in writing of 
her new balances, overdraft limit and (if relevant) monthly payment.
Separately, and regardless of whether or not Mrs A returns the overpayment, Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should pay Mrs £ £300 compensation for her time, trouble and call costs and, if it 
has not already done so, remove any adverse data from Mrs As credit file for April 2019.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman