DRN-3134278
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan dealt 
with their claim under their life time pet policy for their dog and the fact it then unreasonably 
imposed a retrospective exclusion.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a life time policy for their puppy on 28 October 2020. In February 
2021 their dog was having problems evacuating his bowels then had diarrhoea and Mr and 
Mrs R made a claim.
Allianz obtained the vet history in the normal way and decided that because Mr and Mrs Rs 
dog had soft stools before the policy was taken out, the claim concerned a pre-existing 
condition and so was excluded under this policy. 
However, the cause of the dogs issues turned out to be hookworm, so Allianz then paid it. 
But it decided to impose a retrospective exclusion for claims concerning the gastro 
intestinal/digestive system for 24 months from the start date of the policy.   
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair. They explained that the cause of their puppys loose 
stools was simply due to a change of environment and resolved once they changed the food 
from what the breeder had used. They said this was commonplace and it was unreasonable 
to impose any exclusion for this.
Allianz wouldnt change its stance, so Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us. The 
investigator was of the view initially that Allianz hadnt done anything wrong. She then 
investigated what questions Mr and Mrs R were asked by Allianz in the application form. On 
the basis they answered no to any health issues, she remained of the view that Allianz 
hadnt done anything wrong in imposing the 24-month retrospective exclusion.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, had Allianz not paid the claim caused by hookworm, I would have required it do so, 
since that isnt connected to any health issue this puppy was suffering from prior to the policy 
starting. 
Secondly, I appreciate and understand Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision 
concerning the imposition of a retrospective exclusion for 24 months for claims concerning 
the gastro intestinal/digestive system. However, my role is to assess whether Allianz did 
anything wrong, having regard to the terms and conditions of this policy. Its not my role to 
tell any insurer what risks they must cover, as this service isnt the regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority is. So, its a matter for each insurer to decide for itself what it wants to 
cover and what it doesnt on the basis of its own commercial discretion. 
Here Allianz explained in its policy provisions that once a claim is received it can do the 
following: 
We can place exclusions on your policy at the start of your cover based on your
pet's veterinary history and your answers to our questions. We can also place
exclusions during the policy year but we can only do this if we find out, that when we
asked during your application, you did not tell us about something or you provided us
with inaccurate information (regardless of whether or not you thought it was accurate 
at the time). In these cases the exclusion(s) will be placed back to the start of your 
policy.
This isnt unusual within the pet insurance industry as virtually every pet insurer doesnt want 
to provide any cover for pre-existing conditions. Therefore, I dont consider theres anything 
intrinsically unfair or unreasonable about this. 
For completeness sake the policy defines a pre-existing condition as any injury or illness 
that happened or first showed clinical signs before a) your pets cover started. It also defines 
clinical signs as, a change in your pets normal healthy state, bodily functions or behaviour.
The issue remains that Allianz considers the puppys loose stools on the change of 
environment when Mr and Mrs R first got him as clinical signs of a health issue and Mr and 
Mrs R consider it isnt a health issue at all. But rather they consider it something very 
inconsequential and not a coherent health issue whatsoever, given they think its very 
normal for puppies to have loose stools on the change of environment when going to a new 
home.
However Allianz has retained the right to place exclusions based on what is written in the vet 
history  if we find out, that when we asked during your application, you did not tell us about 
something or you provided us with inaccurate information (regardless of whether or not you 
thought it was accurate at the time). In these cases the exclusion(s) will be placed back to 
the start of your policy. This is exactly what happened here. 
And because Allianz has shown it asked the question in the application form, the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 permits it to change the basis of what 
is covered. This is because had Allianz know the puppy was suffering from loose stools it 
would have imposed the same exclusion it later did in any event.  
Mr and Mrs R didnt say anything about their puppys loose stools on the application form, 
not because they were lying or being careless at all, but solely because they didnt think it 
amounted to any health condition whatsoever. But for Allianz, it is something it underwrites 
as a risk and its entitled to decide under its commercial discretion, what it wants to cover 
and what it doesnt. So therefore, it follows that Allianz hasnt done anything wrong in 
imposing the exclusion from the start of the policy. 
I also consider its properly reasonable that Allianz imposed the exclusion for a finite period 
time of 24 months. I would have considered it unreasonable if the exclusion had been 
imposed for the life time of this policy given it was taken out when the dog was a very young 
puppy but its not, as its reviewable after 24 months, which I consider reasonable.My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman