DRN-4188940
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain they werent able to port the lifetime mortgage they held with       
more 2 life Ltd to a new property because its lending criteria were too restrictive. They also 
say they werent given enough information about more 2 lifes lending criteria and the 
limitations for porting the mortgage to a new property when they took out the mortgage in 
2018. They also feel they received a lack of support and information when they were trying 
to port their mortgage to a new property in 2022.
Mr S and Mrs S say they were left with no option other than to end the mortgage early and 
they want more 2 life to refund the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) that was applied when 
they repaid the mortgage in 2022. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr S and Mrs S took out a lifetime mortgage with more 2 life. This was sold via a 
broker. The loan amount was £194,700 with an interest rate of 5.51%, which was fixed for 
the life of the loan.
The mortgage offer set out the terms for the mortgage. Under the heading 3 what is a 
lifetime mortgage?, the offer said the following:
If you buy a new home, you may be able to transfer your lifetime mortgage to your new 
home, or you may be able to get a new lifetime mortgage
And:
If you decide that you simply dont want the lifetime mortgage anymore, you can repay the 
amount you owe to the lender at any time, but the lender may make an early repayment 
charge if you do. Section 13 of this Offer will tell you if any early repayment charges apply to 
this mortgage.
In 2022, Mr S and Mrs S asked to port the mortgage to a new property. But more 2 life 
declined the application. This was because it was its policy at that time not to lend on blocks 
of flats that had more than four storeys, and the property that Mr S and Mrs S had wanted to 
purchase was in a block of flats with more than four storeys. Mr S and Mrs S looked for 
another property, but they say once they received a list of more 2 lifes main exclusions, it 
became clear that none of the properties in their favoured area would meet its lending 
criteria.
In October 2022, Mr S and Mrs S complained to more to life. In summary they said they 
were given very little information about more 2 lifes lending criteria and the limitations for 
porting the mortgage when they took out the mortgage in 2018. They also felt its lending 
criteria were too restrictive and this had meant they were unable to find an acceptable 
property in their favoured area. They were also unhappy about the lack of support and 
information they felt theyd received when they were trying to find an acceptable property in 
2022. 
More 2 life issued a final response letter in December 2022, which didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary, it said the mortgage offer made it clear that if Mr S and Mrs S 
wanted to move home and transfer the mortgage to a new property, the new property would 
need to meet more 2 lifes lending criteria at the time. And the property Mr S and Mrs S 
wanted to purchase didnt meet its criteria. Because of this, it didnt think it had acted 
incorrectly and didnt agree to waive the ERC.
In December 2022, Mr S and Mrs S sold their existing property and redeemed their 
mortgage in full, incurring an ERC of around £13,000. 
Unhappy with more 2 lifes final response letter, Mr S and Mrs S referred their complaint to 
this Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said that more 2 life had 
clearly said in the mortgage offer that a new property would need to meet its lending criteria, 
and she was satisfied that the property Mr S and Mrs S wanted to purchase hadnt met its 
criteria. She said more 2 life was entitled to set its risk appetite and lending criteria, and 
whilst she thought it could have been clearer when initially explaining the reason for 
declining the application, overall, she felt it had acted fairly and reasonably. She also felt the 
ERC had been correctly applied and didnt ask more 2 life to refund it. 
Mr S and Mrs S didnt accept the Investigators findings. Amongst other things, they said 
their key concerns were that very few properties would meet more 2 lifes lending 
requirements and it didnt suggest to them what type of property might be acceptable.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs Ss lifetime mortgage was sold by a broker. The broker was required to take 
reasonable steps to find out what Mr S and Mrs Ss needs and circumstances were and to 
recommend a mortgage that was suitable for them. Mr S and Mrs S have told us that they 
werent interested in moving home when they took out the mortgage in 2018. But if they had 
said that moving home was a possibility, it was for the broker to recommend a mortgage that 
was suitable for them and to explain any limitations where relevant.
More 2 life was required to provide Mr S and Mrs S with clear, fair and not misleading 
information. Ive reviewed the mortgage offer and I can see that it clearly sets out that        
Mr S and Mrs S may be able to transfer the mortgage to another home. In Section 7 of the 
offer, under the heading Risks  important things you must consider, it goes on to say:
If you move home and want to transfer this lifetime mortgage to the new property, you can 
do so if the new property meets our lending criteria.I think this makes it clear that the ability to transfer the mortgage was not guaranteed  it 
was subject to the new property meeting more 2 lifes lending criteria. I dont think this is 
misleading.
Mr S and Mrs S feel strongly that more 2 life should have given them more information about 
its lending criteria when they took out the mortgage in 2018. However, lenders dont genarlly 
publish their full lending criteria in mortgage documents. This is because some of the criteria 
will be commercially sensitive, and lenders change their lending criteria from time to time. A 
reference in the mortgage offer to borrowers needing to meet lending criteria at the time 
ensures that borrowers are not making decisions relying on old, outdated criteria.
I dont consider there was any requirement for more 2 life to set out what its lending criteria 
were in any more detail than it did at that time. And Im satisfied the information it provided in 
2018 was clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr S and Mrs S also feel more 2 life should have provided them with more support and 
information about its lending criteria when they were looking to port their mortgage to a new 
property in 2022. Mr S says they were told about some exclusions such as more 2 life 
wouldnt lend on retirement homes or new build properties, but they werent told about the 
acceptable number of storeys in a block of flats.
Ive carefully reviewed all the evidence available to me, including more 2 lifes contact notes, 
and whilst I do appreciate Mr S and Mrs Ss frustration, I havent seen anything that indicates 
more 2 life was made aware during Mr S and Mrs Ss initial enquires that they wanted to 
purchase a flat. And I wouldnt expect it to list all of its requirements and limitations before an 
application was submitted. 
Further, even if Mr S and Mrs S had made more 2 life aware they intended to purchase a flat 
during their initial enquiries, I dont think more 2 life would have had enough information to 
say with any certainty, any earlier than it did, that the property didnt meet its lending criteria. 
I say this because, in the application form Mr S and Mrs S went on to submit, they werent 
able to confirm the number of storeys in the block. In response to the question How many 
storeys? they responded TBC. So, this was something that more 2 life would have needed 
to determine and review as part of the application.
More 2 lifes contact notes show that on 10 August 2022 Mr S was told that the application 
had been declined due to the number of storeys in the block. More 2 life went on to tell Mr S 
that the maximum acceptable number of storeys in a block was six, when the correct number 
was actually four. However, I can see that more 2 life emailed Mr S and Mrs S two days later 
and confirmed that the correct maximum number of storeys in a block was four. I havent 
seen any evidence to show this error caused any detriment to Mr S and Mrs S.  
More 2 life also provided Mr S and Mrs S with a list of its main exclusions a few days later. It 
went on to say that this was not an exhaustive list, and there may be additional 
considerations which would cause us to decline a property. Mr S and Mrs S have told us 
they found this statement concerning because they felt it meant that any property they found 
could be turned down. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr S and Mr S may have wanted more information about the 
possible reasons and considerations for more 2 life declining an application, theres no 
requirement for a lender to disclose its full lending criteria and Im satisfied more 2 life 
provided Mr S and Mrs S with sufficient information in the circumstances. Upon receiving a 
list of more 2 lifes main exclusions, they were able to determine that they wouldnt be able to 
port the mortgage to a property in their favoured area.Mr S and Mrs S have also complained that more 2 lifes lending criteria are too restrictive 
and say this meant it was impossible for them to port the mortatge, unless they found an 
identical property to the one they were selling. I do understand their frustration. However, a 
lender is entitled to decide what level of risk it is willing to take when it lends, and thats not 
something this Service would normally look to interfere with. 
It isnt uncommon for lenders to have certain restrictions when considering lending on flats. 
This is because they are generally considered to present a higher level of risk. Given this, I 
dont think more 2 lifes criteria seem unreasonable.
Ive gone on to consider whether more 2 life applied its criteria fairly when it declined          
Mr S and Mrs Ss application, and Im satisfied that it did. I say this because more 2 life has 
provided evidence to show that it was one of its criteria at that time not to agree to lend on 
flats in blocks greater than four storeys, and the flat that Mr S and Mrs S wanted to purchase 
was in a block with more storeys than this.  
Mr S and Mrs S want more 2 life to refund the ERC that was applied when they ended the 
mortgage in 2022. But I dont consider more 2 life has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
applying this charge in the circumstances. The mortgage offer sets out clearly when an ERC 
would be applied, and Im satisfied more 2 life has applied the ERC in line with those terms. 
Mr S and Mrs S were aware of this charge when they made their decision to repay their loan 
early.
I do appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr S and Mrs S were hoping for, and they will 
be disappointed with my decision. However, for the reasons that Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded that more 2 life has acted unfairly and unreasonably in the circumstances and I 
wont be requiring it to refund the ERC that was applied in 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman