DRN-4095870
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited didnt pay a claim he made on his legal 
expenses insurance policy.  
What happened
In October 2021 Mr L contacted Fairmead as he wanted to make a claim on his legal 
expenses policy about a dispute relating to his leasehold property involving a garage. 
Fairmead turned down the claim because it said the contract disputes section of his policy 
excluded a dispute over the sale, purchase, terms of a lease, licence, or tenancy of land or 
buildings. And the property protection section excluded cover for a contract you have 
entered into. A complaint about that decision has been previously considered by us. Our 
investigator concluded Fairmead acted fairly. 
Subsequently Mr L contacted us and said Fairmead told him (in December 2021) the terms 
of his policy hadnt changed from those that applied when he first took it out. And he thought 
those terms covered the claim he wanted to make. Hed relied on the assurance he was 
given by Fairmead when going on to incur legal costs and thought it should be responsible 
for these. 
Our investigator accepted the information Fairmead provided had been misleading. But she 
didnt think it was reasonable of Mr L to rely on that information when incurring further costs. 
Fairmead had made clear its position was that his claim wasnt covered and had referred 
Mr L back to previous correspondence in which it explained its position on this.  
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he said Fairmead told him in December 2021 the policy 
wording hadnt changed and hadnt retracted that statement in subsequent correspondence. 
So the wording from November 2018 must apply to his claim. He didnt believe it was 
excluded under those terms. 
And he thought other policy terms were met. In particular it wasnt reasonable to impose a 
requirement for costs and expenses to be approved in advance. The reason the claim hadnt 
been approved was because of the failure by Fairmead to engage with it and hed needed to 
incur costs in order to protect his position. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about what the correct policy terms are for the claim Mr L made. The terms 
dated January 2020 say we will insure you under the sections shown on your policy 
schedule against loss, damage or liability occurring during the period of insurance, according 
to the terms and conditions of this policy. Period of insurance is defined as the period of 
insurance stated on your policy schedule. And the original terms dont cover claims unless 
the insured event occurs within the period of insurance. Insured event is defined as an 
incident or event which results in a legal action or enquiry for which we provide cover. 
Mr L contacted Fairmead to make a claim in October 2021. He told it he needed the threat of 
legal action to resolve a dispute which had arisen because a car stacker had been built in 
the wrong place (meaning he would no longer have access to his garage). From the 
correspondence I can see he was told about this the previous month. On the basis of that 
information I think Fairmead was right to conclude it was the January 2020 terms that would 
apply to the claim he made. The insured event Mr L sought cover for didnt take place while 
the previous terms were in force. As a result I dont need to consider the arguments Mr L has 
made as to why cover should have been provided under those terms because they dont 
apply to the claim he made. And weve already concluded Fairmead acted correctly and 
fairly in turning down his claim in line with the January 2020 terms. That isnt something Im 
considering in this decision because its been considered as part of a separate complaint to 
our service. 
What Ive gone on to consider is whether Fairmead misled Mr L as to what terms applied to 
his claim. The key email here is one Fairmead sent to Mr L in December 2021. That was in 
response to a question from him as to whether Fairmead would have paid a claim made 
under the previous policy terms. Fairmead identified those terms also contained an exclusion 
which it believed would have applied and went on to say due to the above it would seem 
your policy wording hasn't changed as you have been led to believe. However, this can be 
clarified with your complaint to your provider.
But the wording of Mr Ls policy had changed. The original terms contained an exclusion for 
claims directly or indirectly caused by, arising from or contributed to by disputes between 
landlord and tenant or licensor and licensee. The January 2020 exclusion applied to 
disputes over the sale, purchase, terms of a lease, licence, or tenancy of land or buildings. 
And the more recent wording also includes a separate contracts exclusion under property 
protection.  
I think Fairmead should have been clearer about this when it contacted Mr L and in 
subsequent correspondence. And if Mr L had reasonably believed as a result that his legal 
expenses claim would be covered by his policy, and hed incurred costs he wouldnt 
otherwise have done, it might be reasonable to say Fairmead should reimburse him for 
those. But I dont think that is the case here. 
Fairmead was clear it continued to believe Mr Ls claim had been correctly turned down. It 
had already explained it had been assessed on the current policy terms. And it made clear in 
March 2022 it had provided its final decision on the matter and Mr Ls option was therefore to 
refer the matter to our service. I dont think Mr L could reasonably have thought from that 
Fairmead had made any commitment to pay his legal costs. 
And he was clearly aware there was an ongoing dispute over this because he did then refer 
the complaint about the decline of the claim to our service. So while Fairmead should have 
been clearer about the changes to the policy wording I dont think it led Mr L to believe he 
would be covered for his ongoing legal costs. As a result I dont think theres anything it 
needs to do to put things right here. 
Im also not persuaded that, regardless of any failing by Fairmead, these arent costs Mr L 
would have incurred in any event. Mr L said hed had to incur costs as a delay in doing so 
would have weakened his legal position. So even if Fairmead had been clearer about what 
policy wording applied it seems likely Mr L would in any event have incurred costs (for 
example in relation to the issue of notices) in order to protect his legal position. That 
supports my view that these arent costs Fairmead should be responsible for  because they 
havent come about as a result of what it got wrong. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman