DRN-4301484
The complaint
Miss S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) did not complete 
satisfactory repairs to her car after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. She 
further complained about the lack of communication from Admiral.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Miss S made a claim on her motor insurance policy after she was involved in an incident 
whilst driving her car in December 2020.
Admiral accepted Miss Ss claim and repairs were undertaken by its approved repairer in 
January 2021. When the car was returned to Miss S there were issues with the sensors not 
working and an error message appeared on the dashboard. She said the cruise control was 
not working. The fault was cleared, but after two weeks the error light came back on.
In July 2021 recalibration of the system was completed and the problem was rectified.
In July 2022 Miss S reported to Admiral that a front brake warning light kept appearing on 
her car. Admirals approved repairer agreed to contact her to check on the issue, but it did 
not happen. Miss S made a complaint to Admiral.
In November 2022 Admiral paid Miss S £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her due to the lack of communication from itself and its approved repairer. Plus £25 for its 
late response to her complaint. 
However Admirals in-house engineer did not agree the fault was related to the claim repairs 
completed in 2021. It said if Miss S could arrange an investigation/diagnosis of the issue at 
the main dealer that showed how the fault related to the repair claim, it would review this 
again.
A diagnosis was completed at the main dealer. Admiral said the issue found was down to 
wear and tear and this is not covered by Miss Ss policy.
As Miss S was not happy with Admiral, she brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said based on 
the information presented, they had not seen any evidence that suggested the current issue 
was related to the repairs completed in 2021. They said it appeared to be a different fault 
than the one reported in July 2021.They said as her policy did not cover for wear and tear or 
electrical failures that Admiral had acted fairly when it did not agree to pay for these repairs.
As Miss S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw after the repairs were completed, that in July 2021 after Miss S reported the error light 
coming on and issues with the cruise control,  Admirals approved repairer recalibrated the 
advance driver assistance system (ADAS) on the car. The evidence states a health check 
was completed and all systems were operational.
There was no evidence of contact by Miss S to Admiral for almost a year after the 
recalibration and health check was completed. I saw in July 2022 Miss S contacted Admiral 
to report the auto braking warning light was coming on. Admiral passed this information on to 
its approved repairer who had completed the repairs and recalibration the year earlier. 
Miss S contacted Admiral on a number of occasions between July 2022 and October 2022 to 
try and progress the issue she had reported with without any conclusion.
Admiral accepted there had been a lack of communication and paid Miss S £450 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused by this. I think this amount is fair in 
the circumstances of this case. However Admiral did not accept the brake warning light 
coming on was related to the repairs completed in 2021. 
I saw Admiral agreed to Miss S organising further investigations at the main dealer. Miss S 
did organise for this to be completed. The cost was paid by Admiral. The report said the anti-
braking system light does not turn off. It said it tried clearing it, but it came back up. It 
recommended to remove and refit the car bumper and check for damage and carry out 
recalibration.
Admirals in-house engineer concluded the electrical fault on Miss Ss car was wear and 
tear. And this was Miss Ss responsibility.
The evidence provided by Admiral shows its approved repairer had already carried out the 
suggested recalibration on the advance driver assistance system (ADAS) in July 2021. As 
the warning light reported in 2022 was regarding the brakes and not the cruise control 
reported in 2021, I cannot fairly attribute the electrical fault to the repairs completed the year 
before. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ss motor insurance policy. On page 14 it details 
the exclusions under the policy. This includes;
We will not pay
for wear and tear
for any loss or damage caused by mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer failures, 
breakdowns or breakages.
Although I understand Miss S will be disappointed, but as her policy doesnt cover for 
electrical faults or wear and tear, and after consideration of the evidence from Admirals 
engineers and the main dealer, I do not think Admiral acted unfairly by not agreeing to pay 
for any repairs of the issue reported in July 2022.
Therefore, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything 
further in this case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman