DRN-4000108
Complaint
Mr S says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly lent to him. 
Hes said the loans he was provided with were unaffordable and it would have been clear 
why if his bank statements had been requested.
Background
This complaint is about two loans that 118 118 Money provided to Mr S from February 2020 
onwards. Loan 1 was for £3,000.00 and was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of 
£182.94. Loan 2 was provided in August 2020 and was for £3,949.86 and £2,499.86 from 
this loan were used to repay the outstanding balance on loan 1. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that 118 118 Money had done anything wrong when providing  
Mr S with these loans and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 13 February 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 13 February 2023 - setting out why I intended to partially 
uphold Mr S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary 
of my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr S 
complaint.
I then explained that 118 118 Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks 
to make sure Mr S could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that 118 118 Money should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I went on to explain that there may even come a point where the lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
118 118 Money said it agreed to Mr S applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search  
it carried out on Mr S and this information suggested that Mr S would be able to make the 
repayments he was committing to. 118 118 Money said, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr S said he was already in financial difficulty. I 
carefully thought about what Mr S and 118 118 Money said.
Loan 1 was Mr S first loan with 118 118 Money. 118 118 Money did carry out external 
checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told. It carried out a credit search which didnt 
show anything too alarming. Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, and Mr S lack 
of any previous lending with 118 118 Money, I didnt think it was unreasonable for 118 118 
Money to proceed on the basis of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it 
appeared to be accurate. So I didnt think that it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to 
have provided loan 1 to Mr S.
However, I did think that 118 118 Money ought to have carried out further enquiries into     
Mr S circumstances when he applied for loan 2. I said this because he was approaching for 
a second loan a mere matter of months after loan 1. And the information on the credit check 
also suggested that Mr S debts elsewhere had grown in the six months since loan 1 too. 
So I thought that 118 118 Money ought to obtained further information on Mr S non-credit 
related expenditure in order to get a better understanding of why his indebtedness was 
increasing so quickly. As 118 118 Money didnt do anything further, I didnt think that the 
checks it carried out before providing loan 2 were reasonable and proportionate. 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 2 was provided, 
I couldnt say for sure what they would have shown. So I needed to decide whether it was 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told 118 118 Money that Mr S 
would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr S provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for loan 
2. I accepted that different checks might show different things and just because something 
showed up in the information Mr S provided, it didnt mean that it would have shown up in 
any checks 118 118 Money mightve carried out. 
And for the avoidance of doubt, I sought to make it clear that I wasnt saying that 118 118 
had to obtain bank statements from Mr S before lending to him. But in the absence of 
anything else from 118 118 Money showing what proportionate checks at the time would 
more likely than not have shown, I thought it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate 
to place considerable weight on what the information Mr S provided said as an indication of 
what his financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Having considered the information provided, it was clear that Mr S was struggling to manage 
his finances at the time he applied for loan 2. It didnt take too much probing and digging to 
see that the reason for Mr S increasing indebtedness (and apparent need for a further loan 
from 118 118 Money) was because he was gambling unsustainable sums of money. And his 
ability to repay this loan would in large part be dependent on his success as a gambler, which isnt reasonable basis for concluding that Mr S could repay this loan without borrowing 
further or experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to loan 2 without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted 118 118 Money to the fact that Mr S would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments to loan 2. 
All of this left me intending to issue a final decision which found that 118 118 Money didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing loan 1 but that it did do so when providing loan 2. So 
overall I explained that it was my intention to partially uphold Mr S complaint.
I then went on to set out a method of compensating Mr S which addressed 118 118 Moneys 
shortcomings and Mr S resultant loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party provided any further comments or anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to partially uphold Mr S complaint in my provisional 
decision of 13 February 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still partially upholding Mr S 
complaint. And I remain satisfied that 118 118 Money needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr S 
by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr S paid on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about loan 2 from Mr S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 13 February 2023, Im 
partially upholding Mr S complaint. Madison CF UK Limited should put things right for Mr S 
in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman