DRN-1586192
 
complaint
Mr T complains that Westfield Contributory Health Scheme turned down his dental claim. 
background
Mr T holds a Health Cash Plan with Westfield through his employer. The plan allows him to 
claim back money spent on health costs (including dental treatment), up to a maximum 
amount. Ill call this the Westfield plan.
However, Mr T also has a dental payment plan in place with his dentist. He pays a monthly 
amount to his dentist for the plan, and this covers certain dental treatments throughout the 
year. Ill call this Plan B.
Mr T had a check up and hygiene clean, which was covered under Plan B. He submitted a 
claim to Westfield and asked it to reimburse him for his monthly direct debit payments for 
Plan B. Westfield turned down the claim and said dental care scheme premiums/payments 
were excluded. Unhappy with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Westfield had acted 
reasonably in turning down the claim. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The Westfield plan terms and conditions explain the insured can claim back 100% of the 
money spent on health costs, up to the maximum allowance provided by the cover. 
However, it excludes insurance or dental care scheme premiums/payments. 
Mr T had dental treatment that would have cost £95 (had it not been covered by Plan B). If 
Mr T had paid for this treatment himself, he would have been entitled to claim it back from 
Westfield. However, he didnt pay for the treatment and therefore wasnt entitled to make a 
claim under the Westfield plan. 
Mr T says he pays £13.16 a month for Plan B (not including supplementary insurance) and 
this covers the cost of two check ups and two hygiene treatments a year. Hes explained that 
by paying for this through Plan B, he receives a 15% discount on the treatment. He says that 
by paying for Plan B each month, hes spreading the cost of the treatment over the year, but 
is still the one paying for the treatment. 
I do understand Mr Ts argument, and have some sympathy for him. However, ultimately, 
Westfield has chosen to exclude dental care scheme premiums/payments. I assume thats because of the difficulty in calculating how much ought to be reimbursed when there are 
different dental care schemes and various cover options and discounts available. Also, the 
dental care scheme premiums are charged regardless of whether or not someone has all the 
treatment that the scheme covers. 
For example, it wouldnt be fair for Westfield to reimburse a customers premiums for a 
dental care scheme if those premiums were priced to take into account treatment the 
customer hadnt had (such as x-rays). Also, if a customer had only recently joined a dental 
care scheme, and then made a claim under the Westfield plan  Westfield wouldnt be 
reimbursing the customer for premiums already paid, instead the claim payment would be 
covering future premiums. Yet Westfield would have no way of knowing whether the 
customer would keep the dental care scheme in force and continue paying their premiums. 
Nevertheless, regardless of the reason behind the exclusion, Im satisfied Westfield was 
entitled to rely on it here. 
Mr T makes the point that the Westfield plan covers payments made for prescription contact 
lenses supplied under a monthly scheme. Mr T thinks its unfair that payments for a monthly 
scheme are covered for contact lenses, but not for dental treatment. 
The Westfield plan covers 100% of the cost of prescription glasses or contact lenses, up to 
the maximum allowable. It confirms it will also cover payments made for prescription contact 
lenses supplied under a monthly scheme. 
As I understand it, when contact lenses are paid for under a monthly scheme, the main 
reason for that is convenience  the lenses are still being paid for in full, but are delivered 
directly to the customer as a regular supply is presumably needed. The complications with 
dental care schemes that Ive outlined above wouldnt apply to a monthly scheme for contact 
lenses.  
Mr T also complains that after he made the claim, he needed to go back to his dentist to get 
more information, despite Westfield knowing his claim wasnt covered. 
Ive looked at the emails sent between the parties. I see that after Mr T made Westfield 
aware that his treatment had been covered under Plan B, Westfield asked him for 
confirmation from his dentist what the cost of the treatment would have been if not covered 
by Plan B, as well as further information relating to Plan B. After Mr T provided Westfield 
with the requested information, it turned down the claim. 
I can understand Mr Ts annoyance that he went back to his dentist, only for Westfield to turn 
down his claim. However, it seems Westfield wanted to establish if Mr T had set up a 
repayment scheme through Plan B to repay the dentist for that particular treatment only. 
Westfield has confirmed that if this had happened, it would have likely accepted the claim. 
That doesnt seem unreasonable to me. 
However, Westfield did accept thered been some lack of clarity in its emails to Mr T. It 
apologised for this, which I think was an appropriate response. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman