DRN-3673484
The complaint
Mr B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) have changed the charging 
structure of one of their products and unfairly charged him an account administration fee 
after they failed to communicate those changes to him before they were implemented. 
What happened
Mr B held a share dealing account with Halifax and has expressed his dissatisfaction at the 
changes to the charging structure of one of their products and how these changes were 
communicated to him after they were implemented. He says this left him without the 
opportunity to opt out or make any changes to his account. 
He says he received an email on 29 April 2022 with a letter dated 19 April 2022 saying a 
new customer administration fee of £36 per year would be charged in April/May 2022, but he 
was notified after the 31 March 2022 deadline had already passed. He says he wasnt given 
sufficient opportunity to opt out by transferring his shares or closing his account. He thinks 
more should have been done to allow customers to take action as necessary to avoid the 
charge, so he complained to Halifax on 29 April 2022. 
Halifax issued a final response letter to Mr B on 1 May 2022, saying the charges came into 
effect from April 2021 but were introduced in April/May 2022. They say customers were 
given sufficient opportunity to avoid being charged the new fee and were given options to 
carry out before the deadline of 31st March 2022. As no instruction was received from him 
prior to this deadline, they ringfenced an amount from his trading account to pay for the £36 
charge. They didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
To resolve his complaint, he would like his administrative fee of £36 to be refunded.
Our investigator considered the merits of the complaint and agreed with Halifax. He said, it 
was for Halifax to make their own commercial judgements to implement changes to the 
account and their charging structure. The primary method of communication was email and 
the email address was confirmed with Halifax and he saw no reason why emails sent after 
the deadline would be received but not those sent prior to this. He was persuaded that the 
communications were sent and that Halifax had done what they were expected to do so he 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and for the same reasons as the 
investigator. I will explain further.
The evidence Ive seen shows notification of the administrative charge was given. 
Communications were sent in January and February 2021 advising the fee would come into 
effect on 1 April 2022 and they had until 31 March 2022 to take action. Further 
communications were sent in November 2021 and between February  March 2022. Whilst I 
appreciate the communications do not specifically have Mr Bs email address on the emails I 
have seen, these are bulk communications that were sent to their customers. Halifax were 
able to give detailed information around the date, updates and information that was sent to 
their customers. 
I know he says he didnt receive the earlier emails Halifax say they sent him, but he 
accepted himself that he received the email sent in April 2022. Given the contact details 
Halifax had been confirmed correct, I see no plausible reason for why emails to Mr B 
specifically would not have been sent. I am persuaded they have sent the emails to the 
correct details and so they did what was expected of them. 
Looking at what other information was available, the charge amount, when and how it will be 
collected is all clearly noted on Halifaxs website. The information was readily available to Mr 
B and I can see that the notification customer admin fee is clearly visible across various 
pages on the website, including account information, important information, on the trading 
page and the main secure page once logged in. It is clearly highlighted, and it is easily 
accessible for everyone. The evidence Ive seen clearly shows the options available to 
customers and outlines how to transfer shares as well as how to close the account. I 
appreciate Mr B says he wouldnt log into the platform unless he was specifically told he 
needed to because he is an infrequent user of the platform, but Halifax are able to use any 
of the means prescribed to make contact with Mr B.
In addition, Halifax were within their rights to exercise their commercial discretion to make 
changes to the services they offer and the charges they apply at any time. This is also 
included in the terms and conditions of the account that Mr B agreed to. As an online 
registered user, Halifax was correct to use email to communicate these changes to him. I 
know Mr B feels Halifax should have done more to ensure their customers had the option to 
avoid charges, but I cant see how Halifax can be held responsible for Mr B not receiving the 
emails they sent. In addition, being an infrequent user meant he would log in very often but 
as Ive explained above, if he had he logged in at some point, he would have been able to 
see the numerous notifications of the upcoming charges. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision but the evidence Ive seen shows Halifax 
were clear and transparent in making the changes they did and Im not persuaded any 
wrongdoing on Halifaxs part has been established.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman