DRN-4418088
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved a loan for 
£18,000. 
What happened
In May 2019 Miss S applied for a loan of £18,000 with HSBC. In the application, Miss S said 
she was employed part time with an income of £37,124. HSBC says it calculated Miss S had 
£2,292 available each month. HSBC carried out a credit search and found Miss S owed 
around £15,900 in other credit commitments  including a credit card with HSBC that had a 
limit of £4,500 at the time. 
HSBC says it applied its lending criteria and approved the loan. In total, HSBC lent Miss S 
£21,139.12 over 60 months with a monthly payment of £352. 
Late last year, Miss S complained that HSBC had increased her credit card limits and 
approved a loan irresponsibly. HSBC issued a final response on 1 December 2022 but didnt 
agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Miss S complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss S loan complaint and upheld it. They felt HSBC 
shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks before approving Miss S loan and 
thought that, if it had, the application wouldve been declined. HSBC didnt agree and said it 
had approached Miss S loan application in line with the relevant regulations and carried out 
proportionate checks before deciding to proceed. 
In its response to the investigator, HSBC said it had validated Miss S income as £2,292 per 
month and that her payments to service credit (including the new loan) totalled £785. HSBC 
added that taking Miss S living costs into account as well, she wouldve been left with £900 
a month as disposable income. As HSBC didnt accept the investigators view, Miss S 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
In this case, HSBC says it relied on information Miss S provided about her circumstances in 
the application form, including her employment and income. I note HSBC says Miss S was 
employed part time, with an income of £37,124. Ill start by saying, I think thats a relatively 
high income for a part time role so couldve been a trigger point for HSBC to consider 
verifying the application information. 
In its response to the investigator, HSBC said Miss S existing borrowing was £15,900 when 
she applied, representing around 43% of her income which showed she had capacity to 
borrow more affordably. But by approving a loan with a total outstanding balance at inception 
of £21,139.12, the total outstanding unsecured credit in Miss S name wouldve increased to 
around £37,000 which is in line with 100% of the income figure declared. So by continuing 
with the loan, HSBC increased Miss S debt to income ratio from 43% to 100%. Again, Id 
expect to see an increase in a consumers debt to income ratio of that level to have caused 
HSBC to have considered carrying out further checks before deciding whether to proceed. 
HSBCs response to the investigator provided some figures it used for Miss S outgoings 
each month. HSBC said that Miss S payments for credit (including her new HSBC loan) 
came to £785 a month. HSBC says it calculated Miss S would have £900 a month after her 
credit commitments and monthly outgoings were factored in. Using HSBCs figures, that 
means it calculated Miss S outgoings at around £600 a month. That figure feels low 
considering Miss S would need to pay her utilities, Council Tax, transport costs, food, clothes 
and childcare, amongst other regular outgoings. 
Taking all the information HSBC had available into account, I agree with the investigator that 
HSBC shouldve considered carrying out better checks before deciding whether to approve 
Miss S loan. Ive gone on to look at what HSBC wouldve found if it had. HSBC had a 
number of options, including obtaining evidence of Miss S income or copies of her bank 
statements to look at her regular outgoings. Miss S has sent us her bank statements for the 
period before the loan was approved. 
The statements show that whilst Miss S earned broadly in line with the income figure she 
gave (when taking benefits into account) the amount received varied considerably each 
month. And Miss S statements show her outgoings were considerably in excess of the 
figure HSBC appears to have used. Looking at Miss S statements, Im satisfied they show 
Miss S would struggle to sustainably maintain her existing commitments and outgoings as 
well as a new loan from HSBC. Im satisfied that if HSBC had carried out more 
comprehensive checks its more likely than not it wouldve declined Miss S loan application. 
I agree with the investigator that HSBC lent irresponsibly in this case, so Im going to uphold 
Miss S complaint and direct it to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- Remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance and treat 
any repayments made as though they had been repayments to the principal sum
- If this results in Miss S having made overpayments, HSBC should refund these with 
8% simple interest*, from the date the overpayments came about to the date of 
settlement
- If the reworking of Miss S account results in a surplus, it should be refunded to her- If the reworking results in an outstanding balance, HSBC should work with Miss S to 
agree an affordable repayment plan
- HSBC to remove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file in relation to 
the loan
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to deduct tax from this interest. HSBC should give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman