DRN-2943448
The complaint
Ms W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted her bank account 
without telling her. 
What happened
Ms W has told us that she took out a bridging loan in order complete an extension on her 
home. The sooner she could pay the loan back, the less interest she would have to pay. The 
loan was paid into her NatWest account, and from there she made two large payments.  It 
was at this point in July 2019 that NatWest froze Ms Ws account without warning as they 
believed she may have been subject to a scam. This left her with no money to pay for food, 
bills, or her on-going building work.
Ms W said NatWest explained they were concerned she had fallen victim to a scam and that 
she was considered a vulnerable customer. She is unhappy with this as even though she is 
disabled and house bound, it doesnt mean she is in any way mentally impaired. Ms W found 
NatWests comments to be both rude and patronising. She is also unhappy that they asked 
her why she needed an extension on her home and feels as though she should be able to 
spend her money on whatever she wants, without having to justify the reason. 
After a discussion with Ms W, NatWest were still concerned and so they sent a community 
banker to her home, where she provided all of the information that was required. After this 
visit, it still took another call with someone else before her the restriction was lifted on her 
account. Ms W has explained the process took six weeks, not three like NatWest have said, 
and that she had to borrow money during that time to pay for food. 
Ms W has explained the building work was also delayed considerably as during the time her 
account was restricted, the builders moved to other jobs. By the time the weather had 
improved in April 2020, they were unable to start work again due to the Covid-19 outbreak. 
Ms W had to move into rented accommodation until the work was completed. She has also 
explained that the interest on the bridging loan grew considerably as she wasnt able to pay 
it off in full within the three months that were initially agreed.
 
Ms W is also unhappy with the service that was provided by NatWest after she made a 
complaint, as she was passed to different areas of the organisation, left waiting for a long 
time, and on occasions was disconnected.
 
She would like NatWest to pay the full interest that accrued on the bridging loan, the cost of 
the rented accommodation, and compensation for the stress and worry caused. 
NatWest have explained that after receiving a call from someone they believed was 
pretending to be Ms W wanting to make a large transfer, they asked for an authorisation 
code, but the call was disconnected. They said they then had further concern when a third 
party went into a branch wanting to pay a cheque in joint names into Ms Ws sole account. 
In addition to this, NatWest have said they had genuine concern during a call with Ms W in 
relation to her making a large payment of £10,000. At the time theyve said they were 
concerned Ms W was being scammed, as she had already made large payments of £22,000 
and £5,000. After speaking with Ms W, the agent arranged for her account to be restricted 
with the intention of protecting Ms W and her money.
NatWest arranged for someone to visit Ms W at home, and this was also followed with a 
telephone call at the end of July. During this call, NatWests senior Community Protection 
Officer was reassured that Ms W was fully aware of what was going on, and so the 
restriction was removed. 
NatWest have explained that in relation to the restriction being placed on Ms Ws account, 
they are committed to protect their customers if they are concerned they have fallen victim to 
any kind of fraud. So they havent agreed theyve acted incorrectly here. 
They have however offered Ms W £100 for the level of service provided over the telephone 
as she was made to speak with different areas of the bank causing delay, and some calls 
were also disconnected. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that NatWest had acted fairly and in line with the terms of 
Ms Ws account. He explained that NatWest had to be certain the transactions were genuine 
before lifting the account restrictions at the end of July. 
While our investigator acknowledged the delay did have a knock-on effect in relation to the 
building works taking place, he felt they wouldnt have been reasonably foreseeable to 
NatWest at the time. He felt the £100 offered was fair and so wasnt going to ask NatWest to 
pay anything further. 
Ms W disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator. I know this is likely to come 
as a disappointment to Ms W so I will explain why. 
Ive had a look at the terms of Ms Ws account which state:
2.2 Delaying or refusing to act on your instructions
Well always follow your instructions, unless:
we reasonably believe that you didnt authorise the instruction;
we reasonably suspect the instruction is fraudulent;
its necessary to reject your instruction to protect you or us from a crime
And:
5.3 Limiting the use of your account or your services
We may suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such as your
debit card or online banking) if:
we believe its appropriate in order to protect your account.
NatWest has a duty to protect its customers, and sometimes if they feel someone has been 
subject to a scam, its better for them to restrict an account right away so they can keep their 
customers and their money safe while they investigate whats happened. Ive thought about the reasons given by NatWest as to why they had concerns about the 
safety of Ms Ws account and I think given what theyve said, it seems reasonable they 
restricted the account in line with its terms. I do appreciate Ms W is upset that NatWest have 
suggested she is a vulnerable customer though and can understand her reasons. 
Id also like to add that there is a type of fraud taking place where individuals pretending to 
be trades people are scamming people to gain access to their savings. So NatWest do have 
to be so careful in keeping their customers and their money safe. 
I understand that restricting Ms Ws account was very stressful and inconvenient for her. And 
I dont dispute that it may have temporarily affected the progress of the building work. But 
from what Ive seen, Ms W had access restored to her account within three weeks  before 
the winter weather and the Covid-19 outbreak. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to say that all the delays were the fault of NatWest. 
I note Ms W has said it took six weeks for the restrictions on the account to be lifted, but 
from the information I have it appears as though it was lifted at the end of July meaning it 
was in place for around three weeks, which to me, isnt an unreasonable amount of time for 
NatWest to carry out the necessary investigations. 
Because of this I dont think it would be fair of me to ask them to cover the rental costs of 
Ms Ws temporary accommodation. 
I know Ms W has also said the interest on the bridging loan increased significantly after the 
initial three months. In order to tell NatWest to pay any interest due on the loan, Id have to 
be persuaded that NatWest was solely responsible for the delays to the building work Ms W 
has told us about.  But again, I dont think the delays were reasonably foreseeable and it 
seems the delays were, in the main, a result of adverse weather and the Covid-19 
Pandemic. So, Im not able to hold NatWest responsible for them. 
Having considered everything I believe NatWest restricted Ms Ws account in line with the 
terms as they were concerned she had fallen victim to a scam. They have apologised for the 
fact Ms W found the time without access to her account distressing, and they have awarded 
£100 for the poor service given in terms of her communication with them. 
I think this is a fair outcome, and because of this I wont be asking NatWest to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021. 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman