DRN-4073102
The complaint
Mr Q has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) disposed of his TV 
following a claim he made under an accidental damage and breakdown insurance policy.
References to D&G include agents and companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Q contacted D&G to make a claim for accidental damage to his TV. D&G arranged for the 
TV to be collected so it could assess it. D&G then declined the claim as it said it couldnt 
authenticate it. D&G contacted Mr Q to arrange for the TV to be returned. Several months 
later, Mr Q contacted D&G about his TV and was told it had been disposed of. 
Mr Q complained to D&G, as he said it shouldnt have disposed of his TV. When D&G 
replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It confirmed it had contacted Mr Q to arrange for his 
TV to be returned and had explained the TV would be disposed of if he didnt make 
arrangements. It said that when Mr Q didnt reply, it had disposed of the TV.
When Mr Q complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
D&G had told Mr Q the TV would be disposed of if he didnt arrange for it to be returned to 
him. As Mr Q didnt contact D&G for several months, it disposed of the TV.
As Mr Q didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
D&G assessed Mr Qs claim for accidental damage and declined it. Ive read the letter D&G 
sent to Mr Q on 28 August 2022 which said he had 28 days to make contact to arrange 
delivery or collection of the TV. It said that after 28 days it was entitled to dispose of the TV.
Mr Q then contacted D&G in January 2023 to ask for his TV to be returned. However, the TV 
had been disposed of by this point. Im aware Mr Q has said he didnt receive D&Gs letter of 
28 August 2022. Looking at the letter, it was sent to the address on Mr Qs policy, which is 
also the same address this service has for Mr Q. So, from what Ive seen, the letter was sent 
to the correct address. Once it had been sent, D&G wasnt responsible for the letters 
delivery. When the letter was sent, Mr Q was also already aware that the claim had been 
declined. But he didnt contact D&G until about five months later to ask about his TV. Im 
aware Mr Q has explained he was dealing with some family matters during that time.
From what Ive seen, D&G took reasonable steps to arrange for Mr Qs TV to be returned 
and to explain what would happen if Mr Q didnt make contact. I wouldnt expect D&G to 
keep storing the TV for several months after the timeframe it had outlined had passed. So, 
Im not persuaded D&G acted unreasonably by disposing of the TV. As a result, I dont 
uphold this complaint or require D&G to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman