DRN-4101262
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his personal accounts, withdrew 
his overdraft facilities and terminated his credit card account.
What happened
Mr H held three personal current accounts with Barclays, each with an arranged overdraft 
facility. Mr H also held two savings accounts with no balances, and a personal loan. He also 
held a credit card account with Barclaycard. 
In July 2022, Barclays sent a letter giving notice to Mr H that his personal bank accounts 
would be closed. The bank also removed the overdraft facilities on Mr Hs current accounts 
immediately. 
Barclays closed Mr Hs credit card account in August 2022.
When Mr Hs personal bank accounts were due to close in September 2022, two remained 
overdrawn. The bank issued termination notices for these overdrawn accounts in December 
2022, saying that the full overdrawn balances were payable.
In February 2023, Mr Hs third bank account, which had a small credit balance, was closed. 
The overdrawn balances on the other two accounts remained outstanding.
Mr H says the banks actions have impacted his credit file, which has worsened his financial 
position and his ability to repay his debts.
After Mr H brought his complaint to our service, Barclays removed the information on his 
credit file recorded in July and August 2022 about the overdrafts.
Our investigator looked at the available evidence and concluded that Barclays hadnt, for the 
most part, acted unfairly or unreasonably. But she thought the bank should have given the 
same period of notice for withdrawal of the overdrafts as it had for closure of the bank 
accounts. To put things right, she recommended that Barclays should pay Mr H £200 for 
distress and inconvenience. In summary, she gave these reasons:
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer  just as a customer may 
close their account with a bank  but it must do so in a way which complies with the 
terms and conditions. Barclays gave Mr H two months notice for his bank accounts, 
which was in line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr H would like the bank to provide him with more information about the reasons for 
its closure decision. But Barclays isnt required to share any further details than it 
already has.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs accounts, the bank was entitled to 
terminate an overdraft facility at any time and for any reason. However, the terms 
and conditions also say Barclays will usually give at least 30 days notice. Although 
the bank gave two months notice of Mr Hs bank account closures, it withdrew the 
overdraft facilities immediately. Both overdrafts were at their limit at the time. 
Barclays acknowledges it should have given notice before withdrawing the facilities, 
so it has removed the adverse data reported on Mr Hs credit file about the 
overdrawn balances. The investigator thought Mr H was also caused some distress 
and inconvenience by the lack of notice, and she recommended that £200 would be 
fair compensation.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the debt owed by Mr H would be any lower 
now if the bank had given notice regarding the withdrawal of the overdrafts.
During the notice period for the account closures, Barclays sent several letters about 
the overdrawn balances, which advised how Mr H he could make a payment. In 
December 2022 the bank sent formal demands for the repayment of the overdrawn 
balances in full. The investigator thought Barclays actions in issuing these demands 
were reasonable.  
Its unclear whether Mr H has received the balance of about £30 from the third bank 
account when it was closed. But even if he hasnt, it would be reasonable for 
Barclays to retain those funds, using its right of set-off, given Mr Hs other debts to 
the bank. 
Barclays said the credit card was closed with a months notice, in line with its terms 
and conditions. But even if the bank hadnt given notice, the investigator didnt think it 
would have put Mr H in any worse position. Thats because the balance on the card 
at the time was close to the credit limit, so there was little room for further spending. 
Barclays has also noted that the closure of this account prevented Mr H from 
increasing his debt. Since then, Mr H has missed repayments and the credit card 
account is now in arrears. Barclays has evidenced it has regularly notified Mr H about 
the account.
In January 2023 the bank issued a default notice for Mr Hs personal loan. As no 
repayments had been received since August 2022, the investigator didnt think it was 
unfair of Barclays to send the default notice. 
Mr H said the reason hed been unable to maintain the credit card and loan 
repayments was the closure of his accounts and the removal of the overdrafts. But 
the investigator had concluded that it wasnt unfair of Barclays to close the accounts 
and facilities.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation that it should pay £200 to Mr H for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said the reason he has no money to 
repay the debt is the domino effect of the account closures and his difficulty obtaining credit. 
Hes still unhappy that Barclays wouldnt give any information on the reasons for closure of 
the bank accounts and wouldnt discuss the subject with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
I have little to add to the investigators comments. Barclays was entitled to close Mr Hs bank 
accounts and gave him two months notice in line with the account terms. I appreciate that 
Mr H would like to know why the bank chose to do this, but banks arent obliged to give 
customers reasons for closing their accounts. So I cant reasonably require the bank to 
explain its reasons to Mr H.
Under the account terms and conditions, Barclays was entitled to withdraw the overdraft 
facilities at any time, but its common ground now that it would have been fair for the bank to 
give Mr H notice before withdrawal. The adverse credit file information has been removed, 
but I agree with the investigator that Mr H should also receive £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
For the same reasons given by the investigator, I dont think it was unfair of the bank to close 
Mr Hs credit card account. 
Im satisfied that Mr H missed repayments on his personal loan and, in the circumstances, I 
dont think the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably by sending a default notice in January 
2023. 
Mr H says the closure of the accounts started a domino effect which made it hard for him to 
repay his debt to Barclays. But I havent found that the account closures were unfair, so I 
cant reasonably hold the bank responsible for any consequences of the closures. 
I realise that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. Throughout these events he has 
suffered financial and personal difficulties. But in my view, for the reasons given above, the 
bank didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it closed the bank accounts and credit card, 
and issued a demand for repayment of the personal loan balance. I also think the bank was 
entitled to withdraw the overdraft facilities, though it should have given Mr H notice before 
doing so.
Putting things right
In my view, a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Barclays to pay Mr H £200 for 
distress and inconvenience suffered when no notice was given for the withdrawal of the 
overdraft facilities. Barclays has offered to pay this to settle the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 to Mr H for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman