DRN-1637546
 
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with her 
request to remove her name from a joint account.
What happened
In early 2018, Ms S and her ex-husband visited a local branch of NatWest to remove her 
name from their joint account. Ms S said she'd never used the account or associated card. 
She said she was told her card would be deactivated immediately. So, Ms S thought she 
was no longer associated with the account  or liable for the account's overdraft of £912.
Ms S thought all correspondence concerning the account would go to her ex-husband's 
address, rather than where she was living. But as she continued to receive text alerts about 
the account, Ms S contacted NatWest again and subsequently complained.
Ms S indicates that she further chased the bank, but was later told that her name hadn't 
been removed from the account as incorrect forms had been completed. 
In June 2018, Ms S and her ex-husband visited NatWest to complete a second set of forms. 
Ms S said she was told her request would be processed within days. While in branch Ms S 
gave her new contact details - including a current email address.
In July 2018 NatWest wrote two letters to Ms S and her ex-husband. The first to advise that 
Ms S' name would remain on the account until the overdraft was paid off in full. And the 
second letter when NatWest issued a default notice as the account remained overdrawn. 
Both letters were sent to Ms S' ex-husband's address. Ms S says she didnt receive either 
letter.
In December 2018, Ms S received a call from a debt recovery company about the 
outstanding overdraft. In March 2019 Ms S wrote to the company to explain about her 
request to remove her name from the account. Ms S said she thought the matter had been 
dealt with as she was aware her ex-husband had set up a repayment plan for the debt.
In April 2019 Ms S contacted NatWest as she'd changed her name by deed poll. Ms S sent 
several emails requesting her email address and name were updated on their system. But 
while NatWest acknowledged one of Ms S' emails they continued to correspond to her 
previous email address.
NatWest issued a final response letter to Ms S in May 2019. In it, NatWest acknowledged 
shed been given incorrect information about removing her name from the joint account 
when she attended the local branch. They said she shouldnt have been told she could 
remove her name from the account while it was overdrawn. NatWest also acknowledged that 
Ms S' email address hadn't been updated on their system - meaning emails had been sent to 
an old email address.
NatWest offered Ms S £250 in compensation to reflect the trouble and upset this had caused 
her. NatWest advised Ms S to contact the debt recovery company to discuss and arrange 
suitable repayment, as she remained liable for the outstanding debt.
As Ms S didn't agree with NatWest, she contacted our service to complain. She said her 
credit file had been affected as the account had defaulted and remained unpaid.
Our investigator's view was that Ms S' complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator 
asked NatWest to allow Ms S the option to repay the outstanding balance. And if repaid in 
full, remove her from the account as initially requested. 
The investigator noted that if the balance was repaid in full, NatWest was to remove the 
default from Ms S's credit file and any negative markers relating to the account.
The investigator noted the level of compensation NatWest had offered didn't reflect the 
significant problems Ms S had faced. So, he asked NatWest to award Ms S a further £100, 
so the total paid to her was £350.
NatWest responded to the investigator's view and agreed to pay Ms S £350 in total. NatWest 
also agreed to give Ms S an opportunity to pay the outstanding overdraft and said if the 
outstanding amount was paid off, they'd amend Ms S' credit file to reflect this.
Ms S remained unhappy and said she thought £800 better reflected the level of stress she'd 
been caused, so the case was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm going to uphold Ms S' complaint in part. I'll explain why.
Putting things right
I've considered whether NatWest should remove Ms S' name from the account and whether 
Ms S should remain liable for the outstanding debt.
I sympathise with Ms S as I understand its not disputed that the spending on the account 
wasn't hers. But the terms and conditions for a joint account are clear regarding liability, and 
this isn't something I can ask NatWest to change.
Terms and conditions
'You're all responsible to pay back any overdraft on your account. This means that we can 
ask all or just one of you to repay the full amount of any money you owe us and not just a 
share. This applies even if you're unaware that an overdraft has been used on your account.'
As I understand it, NatWest can consider whether to remove one party from a joint account  
but it's not an automatic right. NatWest would need to consider whether it's affordable for the 
remaining party to take on any outstanding obligation - in this case the outstanding overdraft. 
Both parties would remain responsible for any debt on the account until an assessment 
takes place.
In this case, NatWest decided to retain both names on the account until the overdraft was 
paid in full. Again, this isn't something I can ask NatWest to change. Only a change in the 
financial standing of Ms S' ex-husband could impact on whether NatWest was prepared to 
reconsider their decision to remove Ms S' name from the account. And this would require a 
further application from both parties.I've considered next how NatWest administered the process and the subsequent impact on 
Ms S.
I can see from the account notes provided by NatWest that letters were sent to Ms S' ex-
husband's address, rather than where Ms S was living. In particular, the letter advising Ms S 
that her name would remain on the account until the overdraft was paid in full, and the formal 
notice to file a default on the account as it remained unpaid. The terms of the account allow 
the bank to only communicate with one address when dealing with a joint account. With the 
benefit of hindsight, it mightve been better practice for NatWest to make an exception and 
write to the parties at separate addresses. But I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in 
sending letters just to Ms S husband's address. 
I accept Ms S assertion that she was not aware of the July 2018 letters. So Ive thought 
about what mightve happened had Ms S received them on time. I accept that Ms S believed 
the matter was resolved and that she was no longer party to the account. But Im mindful 
that she never received nor, as far as Im aware, sought any further confirmation of this from 
NatWest, even in December 2018, when contacted by the debt recovery agents. Ms S 
disputes her ongoing liability, particularly as the debt was accrued by her ex-husband. And 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Ms S wouldve settled the debt, had she been 
aware of it any earlier. Ultimately, Ms S remains liable for the debt, but has an opportunity to 
resolve matters now and for her credit file to be updated accordingly.
I can see NatWest have agreed to allow Ms S some time to pay off the outstanding balance. 
Should she choose to do this, NatWest will then update Ms S credit file. My understanding is 
that the account is now closed. But if it remains open, once the debt is paid off, Id expect 
NatWest to remove Ms S' name from the account as she originally requested. 
Ms S might wish to register a notice of correction on her credit file relating to the debt, 
providing information about how the default arose. 
I can see Ms S sent an email in May 2019, concerning a change in name. From the account 
notes provided by NatWest, I can see a letter was sent out to Ms S to explain that Ms S 
would need to attend a local branch to achieve this. this. But as I can't be sure Ms S 
received this letter, I can understand Ms S' frustration in this request not being fulfilled. 
Weve subsequently passed on information to Ms S from NatWest, indicating that to comply 
with customer verification procedures, shed need to attend branch with the paperwork and 
appropriate identification so that the documents can be certified and passed for processing. 
NatWest has accepted that there were failings and has agreed to pay £350 compensation. I 
appreciate this has been a protracted situation for Ms S and that the misinformation she 
received, administration failings and subsequent realisation of her ongoing liability for the 
debt will have caused distress and inconvenience. Ms S now has clearer information about 
how to resolve matters, albeit I accept the solution may be unpalatable to her. But overall, I 
think £350 is fair compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I'm upholding Ms S' complaint in part. I direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Pay Ms S £350 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset  caused.
Contact Ms S to see if she wants to arrange a payment plan  and, if she does, 
agree an affordable one with her. 
If the debt is cleared, update Ms S credit file accordingly, removing any negative 
markers. If the debt is cleared and the account remains open, remove Ms S' name from the 
account, as she originally requested.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman