DRN-4116613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained to more 2 life Ltd about a lifetime mortgage they held with it. 
Theyve said, in summary:
The contract is unfair.
more 2 life used a conveyancer rather than a solicitor when setting up the mortgage.
A call handler caused offense in a phone call.
more 2 life paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to their previous lender even though 
there wasnt one due.
Some funds arent accounted for.
The mortgage deed is undated.
The loan amount changed between the two mortgage offers.
When redeeming this more 2 life mortgage they were given misinformation about the 
ERC due by their broker.
Mr and Mrs H said they wanted a refund of £30,000 plus compensation for their extreme 
stress.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs H applied for the mortgage through an independent mortgage 
broker. It was a remortgage to replace an existing lifetime mortgage they held with a different 
lender.
The application asked for an initial advance of £267,000 (plus fees) and a cash reserve of 
£16,500 which could be drawn down later.
A mortgage offer was issued on 14 June on that basis, with a fixed interest rate of 2.99% for 
the initial advance. The offer said the maximum amount Mr and Mrs H could borrow was 
£284,000.
At the end of July Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage broker contacted more 2 life to ask for an 
amendment to the application. The broker said instead of a £267,000 initial advance plus 
cash reserve, they instead wanted to borrow £283,500 with no cash reserve.
A revised mortgage offer was issued on 3 August on that basis, but by now the interest rate 
had dropped to a fixed rate of 2.69%. The offer reiterated that the maximum amount 
Mr and Mrs H could borrow was £284,000.
The mortgage completed on 17 August and the completion statement shows £273,000 was 
released to more 2 lifes licensed conveyancer (that is the £273,500 advance minus the 
£500 fee due to more 2 life). Of that around £270,500 was paid to Mr and Mrs Hs existing 
mortgage lender to redeem that mortgage, and the residual £2,500 was sent to the solicitor 
appointed by Mr and Mrs H.
In April 2022 Mr and Mrs H contacted more 2 life to discuss various options, and to ask 
questions about their mortgage. Those conversations continued into May and June and then 
a complaint was raised, which more 2 life didnt uphold.
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but 
he did say more 2 life should pay £100 for the poor service over the phone when an adviser 
caused offence.
More to life accepted our investigators findings, however Mr and Mrs H did not and so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling regarding this complaint. Id like to assure 
them that Ive read and considered everything theyve told us. I trust they wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and 
independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent 
either party, and we look at things independently without taking sides.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that 
we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what 
happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good 
industry practice, the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
Is the contract unfair due to the wording used?
My role requires that I make my decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So whilst the law is a relevant consideration, our service doesnt 
automatically approach a complaint in the same way that a court might.
Were not the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We dont 
have the power to order wider changes be made in the industry in terms of the information 
that is shown on mortgage illustrations and mortgage offers. Our role is to look at what 
happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint.
The rules and guidance for the information to be contained within mortgage illustrations and 
mortgage offers for lifetime mortgage contracts is set by the FCA in The Mortgages and 
Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). The content of illustrations is 
set out in MCOB 9.4 at www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/MCOB/9/4.html.
MCOB 9 Annex 1 sets out a sample illustration (with the mortgage offer following the same 
format) at. www.handbook.fca.org.uk/form/mcob/MCOB_9_Annex_1.pdf.The contract is designed to be read in its entirety, and if that is done, Im satisfied the use of 
the word may is appropriate in the places it is used, and the detailed context of when (for 
example) an ERC will and wont be charged is set out in the relevant parts of the mortgage 
offer.
To keep with the ERC example, section 3 gives a general overview of what a lifetime 
mortgage is, and part of that says:
If you decide that you simply don't want the lifetime mortgage any more, you can repay the 
amount you owe to the lender at any time, but the lender may make an early repayment 
charge if you do. Section 13 of this illustration will tell you if any early repayment charges 
apply to this mortgage.
The section also says:
If you buy a new home, you may be able to transfer your lifetime mortgage to your new 
home, or you may be able to get a new lifetime mortgage.
Both of those statements are factually correct in terms of a general overview of what a 
lifetime mortgage is.
Section 5 gives a description of the mortgage, and that says:
The loan, accrued interest and charges that may be due, become payable out of the 
proceeds from the sale of your home under the following circumstances;
On your death, or (if joint borrowers) on the death of the last borrower.
If you move home and transferring this lifetime mortgage to the new property does not 
meet our lending conditions.
If you move into residential or long-term care on the grounds of medical or other 
specialist advice.
Again, this is a factually correct statement as there is no guarantee that any charges may be 
due, hence will or wont would be incorrect.
Section six gives details of the benefits to the mortgage, one of those being the Downsizing 
Early Repayment Charge Exemption which says:
If after 5 years from the date of your advance, you purchase and move to a property which 
does not meet our lending criteria, resulting in you being unable to port the loan, you will be 
able to repay the loan in full without any early repayment charges. This would include 
properties that fall outside of our geographic criteria, whether in the UK or abroad. If the 
property you move to does meet our lending criteria and you decide to repay the loan, early 
repayment charges may apply.
If you wish to move home, you can transfer your lifetime mortgage to your new house so 
long as your property meets more 2 life Limiteds lending criteria at that time.
Section seven says:
If you move home and want to transfer this lifetime mortgage to the new property, you can 
do so if the new property meets our lending criteria. You will have to pay a Valuation Fee, Arrangement Fee and our and your legal expenses in respect of the new property. If the 
new property is of a lower value, we may ask you to repay part of the amount outstanding 
on the lifetime mortgage. And,
If you move out of your home into long-term care or residential care your home must be 
sold and the lifetime mortgage repaid. Early repayment charges do not apply if this 
happens - they are only payable if you choose to repay your lifetime mortgage early. 
Section 13 of this Offer tells you when they are payable.
Finally, section thirteen contains the detailed information about the ERC, including how 
much it would be at various times during the term, and when it would not be payable. That 
opens with:
Your lifetime mortgage is designed to be repaid when you (or both of you if there are 2 
applicants) have died or leave your home because you need long-term residential care. If 
you repay your lifetime mortgage at any time for any other reason you may have to pay an 
early repayment charge.
It is clear why the word may is used in that by reading the paragraph that immediately 
follows it:
You have to pay early repayment charges if you want to repay all or part of your lifetime 
mortgage during the first 15 years after the start of the mortgage for reasons other than 
those shown below.
Further down there is a section which says: 
Circumstances in which early repayment charges do not apply
Early repayment charges will not apply after the initial 15 years of your mortgage or if the 
lifetime mortgage is repaid if:
you are moving home and intend to transfer this lifetime mortgage to your new 
property,
you are moving into long-term care or residential care,
after 5 years from the date of your advance, you repay your loan as a result of selling 
your home and move to another property which does not meet our lending criteria,
the mortgage is repaid from the sale of your home after your death,
you make a partial repayment in accordance with Section 14.
the mortgage is repaid by the remaining borrower within three years of the death of or 
entry into long-term care of the first borrower.
If you move home and want to transfer this lifetime mortgage to the new property, you can 
do so if the new property meets our lending criteria at the time. If the new property is of a 
lower value, we may ask you to repay part of the amount outstanding on the mortgage.
If you have any questions regarding this Section please do not hesitate to contact your 
Adviser.When the mortgage offer is read in its entirety Im satisfied the contract isnt unclear or 
ambiguous about when an ERC would and wouldnt be charged. Im satisfied the terms of 
the ERC were set out in a way that should have been readily understandable to 
Mr and Mrs H; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a manner that met the 
regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr and Mrs H knew  or at least should have 
known  how the ERC worked.
Mr and Mrs H said in a phone call to our investigator No proper barrister or solicitor will 
allow you to sign that. Mr and Mrs H appointed their own solicitor to give them independent 
legal advice, so if they feel their solicitor shouldnt have allowed them to agree to the 
contract then that is a matter between them and their solicitor.
If Mr and Mrs H feel there are legal challenges to be made here then they are free to take 
matters to court, but before they do so they may wish to seek specialist professional legal 
advice. As far as the Financial Ombudsman Service is concerned, I dont uphold this part of 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The legal work and phone call
Mr and Mrs H have said that more 2 life appointed a licensed conveyancer rather than a 
solicitor. That is allowed and is, in fact, entirely normal in the mortgage industry when a 
lender uses its own legal representative. Enact are not part of more 2 life and Enact are 
appointed by many different mortgage lenders as an independent conveyancing company.
Enact are listed on the Equity Release Councils website as a member solicitor 
www.equityreleasecouncil.com/company/enact/. To be clear, Ive used the word solicitor 
here as that is the word the Equity Release Councils website uses, albeit Enact (and others 
that are listed, Im sure) are licensed conveyancers rather than a firm of solicitors.
I understand Mr and Mrs H are distressed by what was said to Mrs H in a call with 
more 2 life, in that she was told that more 2 life deal predominately with elderly people and 
they wouldnt understand the term conveyancers so more 2 life use the word solicitors 
instead.
It is clear from everything Mr and Mrs H have said and provided how offensive they found 
that statement, but before I go any further I need to explain that making findings on the legal 
question of unlawful discrimination and breaches of the Human Rights Act is a matter for the 
courts, so I wont be commenting on this point in those terms.
Mr and Mrs H took issue with our investigators assessment of how much compensation is 
reasonable for this point. They said it was a direct insult, not just poor customer service, and 
there could be quite a lot of compensation for it. They also said we should tell more 2 life that 
it isnt allowed to do it.
I take into account all the circumstances in making my decision; here, that includes how 
Mr and Mrs H have described the impact of what was said on them, but also how more 2 life 
responded to the complaint. more 2 life accepted it had got things wrong, said sorry to 
Mr and Mrs H, and said feedback had been given to the relevant team.
I must also bear in mind the general levels of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service 
makes for non-financial loss. There are some case studies about this on our website which 
Mr and Mrs H may find helpful. 
Weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no 
amount of compensation can change what happened. Its not within my remit to tell more 2 life to make sure nothing similar happens again. We look at each complaint 
individually and what may - or may not - happen in the future to other customers isnt 
something I can consider here when deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about what 
happened to them.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H were distressed by what was said. Nonetheless, in all the 
circumstances, I conclude that the apology more 2 life has already given, and its agreement 
to pay £100 compensation, represents a fair and reasonable outcome.
It may be a court takes a different view and, as Ive explained previously, if Mr and Mrs H 
feel there are legal challenges to be made here then they are free to take matters to court, 
but before they do so they may wish to seek specialist professional legal advice. 
As far as the Financial Ombudsman Service is concerned, Im satisfied £100 compensation 
is fair and reasonable.
The breakdown of the completion funds and the mortgage deed not being dated
A redemption statement was received from Mr and Mrs Hs previous lender in July 2021. 
That statement said it was only valid for repayment on that day, otherwise the amounts 
required to repay the mortgage would be different.
A further redemption statement was obtained for the date of completion and that gave the 
sum needed to redeem the previous mortgage as around £270,500. That was the debt 
outstanding at that time (there was no ERC) and the amount stated on the redemption 
statement matched the amount quoted on the completion statement that was issued to 
Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor.
That left around £2,500 and it was noted that amount was due to Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor. If 
Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor didnt receive that sum then I would have expected it to have 
queried that at the time. As that didnt happen Ive no reason to believe more 2 lifes 
conveyancer didnt provide that surplus sum. I leave it to Mr and Mrs H to query it directly 
with their solicitor and if, having done so, Mr and Mrs H obtain evidence that the money 
wasnt sent either to their solicitor or directly to them, then that is a new complaint they could 
raise at the time. But having considered everything I have no reason to doubt the funds 
transfer took place.
Mr and Mrs H appear to have concerns about the process that created the legal charge. 
Theyve said, in respect of the mortgage deed Also, on the copy of the mortgage deed we 
hold, they are signed by us, but not dated in various places. The top box section is undated, 
item 4: undated, and item 5: undated. We believe this Mortgage Deed to be "undelivered".
I can reassure them that is completely normal and as I would expect. When Mr and Mrs H 
took out the mortgage, they signed a document called a legal charge (the mortgage deed), 
granting a mortgage over the property in favour of more 2 life. The instructions for signing 
that document would always say that it should be left undated. Thats because the date put 
on it is the date the mortgage completes, not the date of signing.
It is also important to note that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to 
determine whether or not a deed is valid or not. Only a court is able to do this. What I have 
to decide is whats fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that more 2 life provided Mr and Mrs H 
with the funds to pay off their existing mortgage. In the circumstances, its fair and 
reasonable for more 2 life to ask Mr and Mrs H to repay those funds in accordance with the 
terms of the contract.I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The service from Mr and Mrs Hs broker
more 2 life isnt liable for any complaint about the information and advice given by the broker 
Mr and Mrs H appointed to act on their behalf. 
more 2 life amended the mortgage offer upon the brokers request, and the information 
about the ERC was set out correctly in the mortgage offer so if the broker passed on 
incorrect information then that wasnt more 2 lifes fault.
If Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the service their broker provided then they should raise 
those concerns with the broker directly, if they want to do so
Putting things right
In summary, having considered everything I dont uphold the main thrust of this complaint. 
The only point I do uphold is in relation to the phone call between Mrs H and more 2 life and 
for that I order more 2 life to pay £100 compensation
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order more 2 life Ltd to pay £100 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs H. I make no other order or award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman