DRN-3163631
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr B, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. B is represented in bringing 
this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those 
of B. 
What happened
B held a business protection insurance policy with AXA. B claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AXA turned down Bs claim. They said the interruption to Bs business wasnt caused by 
damage and while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
diseases listed. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, B brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of why its claim should be paid. In particular it thought that 
damage should be interpreted to include cover for its claim. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the investigators view had focused on a 
narrow interpretation of the policy terms and it was seeking a wider focus. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B has raised a number of detailed points. While Id like to reassure B that I have considered 
them all, in this decision Im going to focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this 
complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. B has referred to a wider focus and the 
balance of treating customers fairly. While Ive considered those points, what is and isnt 
covered is set out in the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this 
particular policy to see if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining Bs claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy covers business interruption as a result 
of:
 Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance to property used by the 
Insured in connection with the Business at the Premises. 
The policy defines damage as Accidental loss destruction or damage. 
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Bs business would need to be as a result of 
accidental loss, destruction or damage to property used by B. Ive considered Bs point that 
damage should extend to cover its claim, but I dont think the interruption to Bs business 
was as a result of damage. 
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Bs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Bs premises.
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of
SARS-CoV-2 on Bs property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically
amount to damage. So, Bs claim isnt covered under this section of the policy. 
Prevention of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers 
interruption to Bs business as a result of:
Damage to property within a one mile radius of the Premises which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the Premises
,
While access to Bs premises might have been prevented or hindered, it would need to be as 
a result of damage to property within a one mile radius of its premises. I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that damage occurred, for the reasons set out above. So, this 
extension doesnt provide cover. 
Disease
This extension provides cover for business interruption due to the occurrence of any of the 
following specified human infectious or human contagious diseases manifested by anyone 
at Bs premises or within a 25 mile radius. This list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Bs 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Bs claim.Supreme Court judgment
B has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case but whether a claim 
should be paid still depends on the terms and conditions in the policy. In this case the 
Supreme Court judgment doesnt impact the outcome of Bs claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I see no reason to require AXA to depart from the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Therefore, I cant fairly require AXA to pay Bs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman