DRN-1491760
The complaint
Mr W complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-sold him a 
whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L
What happened
In 1994 Mr W met with an advisor for a firm that Sun Life has since acquired liability for. At 
that time Mr W was married with five dependants and earning about £12,000 per year. He 
was advised to set up a unit linked whole of life policy, set up on an index linked basis, which 
provided an initial sum assured of £50,000 for a monthly premium starting at £21.50.
L complained to Sun Life about the sale of the policy in 2019. They said Mr Ws main priority 
was mortgage protection and given his circumstances at time, including having five children, 
he ought to have been recommended a decreasing term assurance policy instead. They also 
raised concerns about inconsistencies in the sales documentation as, under the financial 
objectives section, it said he had no spare income whereas, under the income and 
expenditure section, the advisor recorded Mr W as having net disposable income each 
month.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said documentation from the time of sale shows 
Mr W had a shortfall in life cover and that he wanted to protect his wife and children in the 
event of his death. As the mortgage was in the name of Mr Ws wife, who had cover in place, 
they said Mr Ws primary purpose for cover wouldnt have been mortgage protection but 
rather family protection. The mortgage was however taken in to account when deciding how 
much cover Mr W needed but he also wanted to provide additional cover to protect his 
family. Because of this they didnt think a decreasing term assurance policy wouldve met
Mr Ws needs.
Sun Life also explained the policy provided cover during Mr Ws working life and allowed him 
to keep it indefinitely which suited his need to provide cover for his family. And that the 
flexibility of the policy allowed amendments to be made to meet changing needs or, if  cover 
was no longer required, it couldve been cancelled with the accrued surrender value payable. 
Sun Life also said that it wasnt a requirement for an income and expenditure analysis to be 
completed at that time. But the sales documentation shows affordability was covered in the 
meeting between Mr W and the adviser and that it was a factor when making the 
recommendation.
The complaint as referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to the matter but he 
didnt think the policy was unsuitable for Mr Ws circumstances, or his needs, at that time. 
And so our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr W had a need for life cover. But rather, L argues the 
unit linked whole of life policy Mr W was advised to take out wasnt suitable for his needs 
and that there was more appropriate cover available to him at that time. Ive carefully 
considered what L has said but, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr W.
The documentation available from when the policy was sold isnt clear or easy to read. But, 
from what is legible, it says the policy was set up on an affordability basis with the aim of 
providing mortgage protection and additional life cover. While the mortgage for the family 
property was in Mrs Ws name, Mr W was the main earner and so I think it was reasonable 
for this to have been taken in to account when deciding how much cover he needed. I also 
think it was reasonable for additional life cover to have been considered given Mr W was 
married and had five children. Im satisfied there was a protection need and that the policy 
sold met this while taking in to account the amount Mr W could afford at that time. 
L however says that this type of cover wasnt the most suitable for Mr W as the policy had 
reviews which may have led to the cost of maintaining the same level of cover becoming 
more expensive. This therefore couldve put Mr W in a position whereby he might not have 
been able to afford the increase in premium and so the level of cover wouldve reduced. But 
while a policy review may have led to the cost of cover increasing, I dont think this 
necessarily means it wasnt appropriate for Mr Ws needs. This is because the amount 
outstanding on the mortgage wouldve also decreased at the point the policy reviews took 
place. So the amount required for this purpose wouldve likewise reduced. And the flexibility 
this policy offered, opposed to a policy with a set term, is that Mr W was able to change the 
level of cover he required to suit his needs. This meant he had the option of what level cover 
he wanted over the years, whether this be for his mortgage or to protect his family. 
L also questions why a whole of life policy was set up when Mr Ws youngest child was less 
than one year old and the remaining term of his mortgage was 20 years. They say he didnt 
require cover beyond this time. Again, although cover up to this point may have been of 
greater importance to Mr W, this policy provided him with the flexibility to maintain cover if he 
wanted protection in place for his family. A portion of the whole of life policy premiums were 
also invested and so, if Mr W decided to cancel it at 20 years or sooner, there was the 
possibility a surrender value wouldve been payable. This benefit wouldnt have been 
available under a set term policy and so I dont think it was unsuitable for a whole of life 
policy to have been recommended here.
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman