DRN-2920114
The complaint
Mr H complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly applied an exclusion to decline 
the part of a claim he made under his home contents insurance for a stolen bicycle.
What happened
Mr H took out a home contents insurance policy with AXA. In that policy Mr H set out a 
number of specific items to be insured, including three bicycles. One of these bicycles had a 
specified sum insured of £2,300, which Ill call bicycle three. The policy schedule set out an 
endorsement that applied to bicycle three:
Pedal Cycle Security Endorsement
Theft in respect of unattended pedal cycles specified on your Policy exceeding a value of 
£2,000 is excluded unless secured by a [certifying organisation] gold or silver graded 
approved lock designed for pedal cycles.
Unfortunately Mr H was burgled in September 2018, with tools and the three specified 
bicycles being stolen from his shed. Mr H claimed for this under his AXA policy, and 
explained the three bicycles were locked together and to a steel bicycle rack secured to the 
sheds inside wall. AXA agreed to pay for the tools and two of the bicycles. But AXA said it 
wouldnt pay for bicycle three because the pedal cycle security endorsement applied and 
Mr H hadnt provided evidence to show hed complied with this endorsement. 
Mr H complained to AXA about this. In its final response, AXA said Mr H hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence of the lock hed used to secure bicycle three, but it would review things 
once Mr H provided this. Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service in 
February 2019. But our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mr H unfairly. 
In July 2019 Mr H provided AXA with the handwritten receipt for the bicycle lock which he 
said showed hed complied with the endorsement. Mr H explained hed bought the lock from 
a private seller along with a motorbike and other items. And after he contacted the seller 
asking if they had any evidence of the sale, it turned out Mr H had accidentally left the 
receipt with the seller at the time of the sale. The receipt itemised the lock as a [brand] 
[range] combi lock.
AXA reconsidered Mr Hs claim for bicycle three in light of this receipt but decided the cycle 
security endorsement hadnt been complied with and so declined Mr Hs claim for bicycle 
three for a second time. Mr H made a new complaint to AXA about its second claim decision. 
But in its final response to Mr Hs new complaint, AXA didnt change its position and said any 
claim delays stemmed from waiting for information from Mr H and from the police. 
In January 2020 Mr H brought his new complaint to our service. He was unhappy AXA had 
again declined his claim for bicycle three and thought AXA had deliberately delayed things 
by engaging a loss adjuster and asking the police for information.
Our investigator spoke to AXA and Mr H. AXA clarified it declined the claim for bicycle three 
because Mr Hs receipt suggested the lock didnt contain a chain which AXA thought would 
have reasonably been expected to be included in order to lock up bicycle three. And 
because Mr H hadnt shown bicycle three was secured by the specific lock required by the 
endorsement. And the police report didnt shed any light on this.
Mr H provided photos of the motorcycle and other items hed purchased from the private 
seller along with the lock, to show this transaction happened and the receipt was genuine.  
After looking into things, our investigator said the policy required bicycle three to be secured 
with a [certifying organisation] gold or silver graded approved lock designed for pedal 
cycles. But that AXA said the receipt Mr H provided was for a combination padlock. So she 
thought AXA had acted fairly by declining Mr Hs claim for bicycle three. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He provided product screenshots of the type of lock he 
said hed had, to support his argument that the receipt showed he had the type of lock 
required by the policy endorsement. But our investigator didnt change their view and 
thought the receipt didnt amount to proof of purchase for the lock.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Before his complaint was passed to me for a decision, our service asked AXA 
why it thought the lock itemised on Mr Hs receipt didnt comply with the endorsement. AXA 
said the receipt didnt say the lock was [certifying organisation] rated as the endorsement 
required. And Mr H hadnt shown bicycle three was secured by the lock in the manner 
required by the endorsement. 
Mr Hs complaint then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 
30 June 2021, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I need to be clear that in this decision, Im not considering AXAs first claim decision 
regarding bicycle three. Thats because our service has already considered that matter 
under a separate complaint. Instead, what Im considering here is AXAs second claim 
decision and how long that took, after Mr H provided AXA with the lock receipt in July 2019. 
AXA has accepted that Mr H was burgled and the items Mr H has claimed for were stolen, 
because it has settled most of the claim except for bicycle three. And it seems to me that 
despite some initial concerns, AXA now accepts that the receipt Mr H has provided for 
bicycle three is genuine, because its not disputing that the receipt is genuine  what its 
instead disputing is whether the receipt shows Mr H had the right kind of lock required by the 
endorsement and used it to secure bicycle three.
Since AXA has accepted that an insured event under the policy caused Mr Hs loss, its for 
AXA to show that Mr H hasnt complied with his policys pedal cycle security endorsement. 
And having weighed up the evidence from both parties, Im intending to say I dont think AXA 
has shown this. Ill explain why. 
The pedal cycle security endorsement says bicycle three needed to be secured by a 
[certifying organisation] gold or silver graded approved lock designed for pedal cycles. 
AXA says the lock itemised in Mr Hs receipt doesnt have a chain. And that the receipt didnt 
say the lock was [certifying organisation] rated as the endorsement required. Ive seen that 
Mr Hs receipt doesnt specify the lock model or whether it was gold or silver graded. But the 
receipt does specify the brand of the lock and what range it belonged to. And its my 
understanding that the locks in this range from this brand are all combination locks with an integrated chain and either bronze or silver graded by the certifying organisation. Mr H has 
provided product screenshots from the internet to illustrate what specific model in the range 
he had  these show a silver graded model, as required by the endorsement. So I dont think 
AXA has shown that Mr Hs lock wasnt of the type required by the endorsement.  
I note AXA also says Mr H hasnt shown bicycle three was secured by the lock in the manner 
required by the endorsement. I think AXA is suggesting here that Mr H hadnt secured 
bicycle three using the lock. But Mr Hs policy schedule and policy terms and conditions 
dont define what is meant by secured. So the policy terms are ambiguous on this point, as 
they leave what is meant by secured open to a reasonable interpretation.
From emails between Mr H and AXA and the video and photographs Ive been provided 
with, I can see Mr H had a metal bicycle rack fixed to the inside of his shed. And his 
testimony is that the three bicycles were all secured to it using the lock in question and that 
the lock couldnt be found after the burglary so he assumed it was taken with the other stolen 
items. I think a reasonable person would consider a bicycle locked to a fixed metal rack 
inside a shed to be secured. And other than its comments, AXA hasnt provided me with any 
evidence to suggest bicycle three wasnt secured in this manner when Mr H was burgled. 
Ive considered the police report of the burglary to see whether it sheds any light on the type 
of lock Mr H had, or whether it was in use at the time of the burglary. But it doesnt mention a 
lock or how bicycle three was secured and theres nothing in it to suggest Mr H was asked 
about how his stolen items were secured. And the police didnt visit the scene after Mr H 
reported the burglary. So I dont think it would be fair to conclude from this report that Mr H 
didnt have the right lock, or that bicycle three wasnt secured with it.
As Ive explained, its for AXA to show that Mr H hasnt complied with the policys pedal cycle 
security endorsement. And taking everything into account, I dont think AXA has shown this. 
Given this, I dont think it was fair for AXA to decline his claim for bicycle three on that basis. 
AXA has considered Mr Hs claim twice now and hasnt told us of any other endorsements or 
exclusions its relying on to decline the claim for bicycle three. So I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome here is for AXA to pay Mr Hs claim for bicycle three. 
Mr H has confirmed he hasnt yet bought a replacement for bicycle three. AXAs supplier 
quoted for a replacement bicycle with a suggested retail price of £2,299. However, Mr H no 
longer wants to use AXAs supplier and has provided a quote of £2,499 from his own 
supplier. I think its fair to say the relationship between Mr H and AXA has broken down, so 
its reasonable for Mr H to want to use his own supplier. And Mr Hs own quote is reasonably 
close to the retail price from AXAs supplier. But the specified sum insured for bicycle three 
under the policy is £2,300, so Mr H isnt entitled to more for bicycle three under the policy. 
Therefore, Im intending to say AXA should pay Mr H £2,300 in settlement for bicycle three.   
As I think it was unfair for AXA to decline Mr Hs claim a second time after hed provided the 
lock receipt, AXA should add 8% simple interest to the £2,300 to compensate Mr H for not 
having use of this money. I understand from the records AXA has provided that it decided to 
decline Mr Hs claim for bicycle three for the second time on 29 October 2019. So it should 
add 8% simple interest from 29 October 2019 to the date of settlement.
Mr H says AXA has deliberately delayed things by engaging a loss adjuster and asking the 
police for information. As Ive explained, Im only looking here at what AXA did after Mr H 
provided the lock receipt in July 2019.
Im intending to say its not unreasonable for AXA to have engaged a loss adjuster or asked 
for a police report while it was reconsidering Mr Hs claim for the second time. These are 
things insurers often do, and in this case AXA engaged a loss adjuster and asked for the police report in order to properly assess Mr Hs claim, albeit I think it then reached the wrong 
claim decision. 
And I dont think AXA caused any significant delays. It did take about two months for AXA to 
receive the police report, but I can see that in that time it was following this up and updated 
Mr H. So I dont think AXA was responsible for this delay, though I can appreciate it took 
longer than Mr H would like.
AXA responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it had no further comments or 
evidence to provide. And Mr H accepted my provisional decision. 
Ive now gone on to make my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision and AXA confirmed it had no further comments or 
evidence to provide. Given this, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
AXA should pay Mr H £2,300 in settlement of his claim for bicycle three and add 8% simple 
interest to this amount from 29 October 2019 to the date of settlement. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay 
Mr H £2,300 in settlement of his claim for bicycle three and add 8% simple interest to this 
amount from 29 October 2019 to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman