DRN-3793416
The complaint
Miss S complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc wont refund enough of a payment made on 
her credit card for a package holiday.
What happened
In June 2021 Miss S paid a package holiday supplier for flights and a hotel stay abroad in 
December 2021 using her Capital One (Europe) Plc credit card. Prior to flying Miss S was 
told that the hotel had to change her booking. She was offered cancellation, or a partial 
refund and she took the partial refund. So the hotel part of her package trip cost just over 
£1756 after the refund had been taken into account. Miss S and her travel partner stayed at 
the hotel for the five nights as planned. But Miss S felt the hotel room wasnt clean, that 
there were issues with cupboards and facilities and amenities of the room and hotel more 
broadly. So she complained to the hotel management but isnt happy with how it dealt with 
the matters she raised. She also feels that the hotel didnt live up to its advertising and so 
she feels she was misrepresented into booking it.
So in February 2022 Miss S took her dispute to Capital One. It looked at what happened and 
explained that it didnt have chargeback rights. It also considered the matter under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Having done so, it made Miss S an offer of £111 which 
mirrored the amount the hotel had waived in relation to what had happened. But Miss S 
didnt think this was enough, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, they thought Capital One had acted fairly by 
making the offer it had done. Miss S doesnt think this is a fair outcome. So the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the supplier or the hotel, which arent 
financial services providers and so dont fall within my remit. This decision is solely about 
whether Capital One treated Miss S fairly when she took her dispute with the supplier to it.
Capital One has two ways of considering what happened here, either through the 
chargeback process or under S75. It says in essence that it didnt consider it had a 
reasonable prospect of success with regard to chargeback. Ive considered the chargeback 
reason codes and what happened here, and I dont think Miss S has lost out because of no 
chargeback being raised. I think such a chargeback would have been unlikely to succeed 
because Miss S did stay at the hotel for the period of the booking, the Supplier wasnt 
properly informed of the issues whilst Miss S was at the hotel and because the hotel did take 
some action to redress the problems, albeit not to Miss S satisfaction. So I think had Capital 
One raised a chargeback it would have been defended by the supplier and had it been taken 
to the end of the chargeback process I think, ultimately, it would have been unsuccessful for 
these reasons. So I dont think Miss S lost out due to Capital One not raising a chargeback.
Capital One can also be held liable, if certain pre-requisites are met, as a result of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 specifically under Section 75 of that Act. This legislation makes 
clear Capital One is only responsible for breach of contract and misrepresentation. It isnt 
responsible for issues such as customer service or the broader experience debtors (such as 
Miss S) had.
As far as the relevant rules and qualifications are concerned Im satisfied that this dispute 
falls within the financial limits requirements within the legislation. And Im satisfied that in 
terms of the contract Miss S had with the supplier for its services, the debtor creditor supplier 
requirement in the legislation is made out also. Im also satisfied that the holiday Miss S 
booked meets the requirements of the Package Travel Regulations (PTRs) to be considered 
a package holiday.
For me to uphold this complaint Id need to be satisfied on balance of probabilities that 
Capital One had treated Miss S unfairly in how it considered her dispute with the package 
holiday supplier. I can see Capital One has pointed to Miss S not informing the supplier of 
the issues she faced at the time. Miss S says she repeatedly told hotel staff of the problems 
with the hotel but got very little fixed by those staff, despite numerous assurances that the 
issues would be fixed. She also says she made attempts to inform the package supplier but 
wasnt able to, in part due to communication attempts by her not being answered by the 
supplier.
Regulation 20 of the PTRs says:
Travellers need to inform the organiser (the package supplier here) without undue delay, 
taking into account the circumstances of the case, of any lack of conformity they perceive 
during the performance of a travel service (which includes accommodation) included in the 
package travel contract. Failure to do so may be taken into account when determining the 
appropriate price reduction or compensation for damages where such notice would have 
avoided or reduced the damage.
In Miss S case here, by not informing the supplier of the issues with the hotel, the supplier 
was denied the opportunity of remedying the matter in any of the ways it could have done so 
such as by talking to the hotel or indeed moving Miss S to other accommodation. I 
appreciate Miss S says that the supplier didnt answer when she did try to communicate, but 
I can understand why this could be considering the background of the pandemic at that time 
and the increase of such correspondence on such matters that such firms were dealing with. 
I can also appreciate that Miss S may not have known about this regulation or realised that 
such a regulation could be considered in matters such as these. Nevertheless Capital One, 
as it is potentially liable as a like claim to the supplier can consider this regulation in how it 
arrives at its stance on the matter.
I see Capital One has considered the package breakdown and noted Miss S isnt 
complaining about other elements of the package, but rather just focused on the crux of Miss 
S complaint  the accommodation. It has offered a price reduction here in terms of a refund 
of £111 which it has said mirrors an offer amount that the hotel made to not charge certain 
fees that are on top of what Miss S paid for the package. I think Capital Ones approach here 
regarding the non-accommodation parts of the package is correct.
Capital One has also noted that whilst Miss S was unhappy, she did stay in the room for the 
full booking. So the service was provided and fully utilised. I appreciate that Miss S was 
seeking a luxury hotel and that her expectations were not met here. But I note that the 
hotel in question is located in a famous location and that there are other hotels close by 
which are significantly and in some cases substantially more expensive. And it is worth 
stating that such matters are decidedly subjective. It is also important to note that Miss S has spoken of being ill during the trip and it is clear that at the time of travelling the Pandemic 
had an impact on daily life and tourism and the provision of services here. The room change 
and refund Miss S was notified of prior to going was due to the actual covid situation. Miss 
S chose to still go on the trip when notified of this when she had the opportunity to cancel or 
rebook. So Miss S travelled aware, to at least some degree, that her booking had been and 
may be impacted by the pandemic. 
So although its clear the hotel didnt meet Miss S expectations taking all these matters into 
consideration and the accepted nature of some of the failings I consider a fair remedy to be 
not substantial here bearing in mind the room was fully used and the supplier didnt have an 
opportunity to remedy matters. Im not persuaded she was misrepresented into booking this 
hotel that she wouldnt have done otherwise considering the evidence here. And even if I 
had been, bearing in mind she had full benefit of the accommodation, Id only be considering 
an award similar in amount to that offered by Capital One.
Capital One has offered £111 as a refund for the hotel stay. Although Im not necessarily 
persuaded by its rationale for this amount I do think it is in line with what I consider to be fair 
in the circumstances all things considered. 
Lastly in the interests of completeness I note Miss S has pointed to a lot of online comment 
about the hotel. Ive considered this and although some of her arguments here are reflected 
in some reviews I also note that there are plenty of very positive comments also. So I dont 
think such reviews are helpful here. Miss S has also pointed to other hotels nearby for 
costings and comparison arguments. However the commercial offerings of hotels are 
unique, and Miss S is comparing her actual experience of this hotel to the advertising and 
online comment of other hotels that shes not been to. So these arguments dont persuade 
me that Capital One has treated her unfairly here.
So having considered all of the evidence here Im not persuaded Miss S has been treated 
unfairly by Capital One here. Accordingly her complaint is unsuccessful. If Miss S wants to 
now accept the offer from Capital One she should let it know.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
Plc. It has nothing further to do in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman