DRN-3116225
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to URV also includes its agents.
 
What happened
In late 2019, Mr and Mrs A booked a trip abroad, departing in February 2020. They were due 
to return from that trip in early May 2020. In January 2020, Mr and Mrs A purchased a single 
trip travel insurance policy, insured with URV.
Mr and Mrs A started their trip but on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 23 March 
2020 the FCDO instructed all UK citizens travelling abroad to return home. Mr and Mrs As 
return flights were subsequently cancelled by the airline and no alternative was offered. They 
were only able to leave when they managed to secure seats on a UK government 
repatriation flight in late April 2020. 
Upon returning to the UK, Mr and Mrs A made a claim to URV for the cost of the new flights, 
some additional travel expenses incurred in the UK and also for a proportion of their unused 
return flight that hasnt been refunded by the airline. URV declined the claim as it said the 
policy didnt provide cover for the curtailment of a trip for those circumstances.
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs A complained to URV and brought their complaint 
to this service. An investigator looked into the matter and didnt think that URV had acted 
fairly. He accepted that the policy didnt specifically include cover for the circumstances that 
caused Mr and Mrs A to return home early, however, he still thought it was fair and 
reasonable for URV to consider the claim. He recommended that URV accept the claim as 
covered under the curtailment section and reconsider the claim under the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs A accepted our investigators view but URV didnt. It reiterated that cover is not 
provided for the situation Mr and Mrs A were placed in. URV said that Mr and Mrs A had a 
14-day cooling off period following the purchase of the policy in which to read the terms and 
conditions and decide if it was right for them or receive their money back. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, relevant industry rules and guidance. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Ive 
also considered the relevant law (including the unfair terms provision in the Consumer Right 
Act 2015). 
The policy terms and conditions 
The policy Mr and Mrs A hold includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. 
On page 17 of the wording, under the heading Section B1  Curtailment charges (if you 
have to come home early), the policy says it will pay for certain costs if a trip is curtailed for 
any of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct
result of pregnancy of
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
a) any person who you have arranged to stay with
b) your close relative
c) your close business associate
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance 'Services or employees of a Government Department and have 
your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, 
provided that the curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the 
time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles malicious people or 
theft.
On page 12, the policy terms say, under the heading What is not covered  applicable to all 
sections of the policy:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the travel advice unit of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country 
to/from which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
In addition to the policy terms, URV provided Mr and Mrs A with an Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover.
On page one of the IPID it includes a section titled Are there any restrictions on cover? and 
within this section it states:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination
Was the claim declined unfairly?
The policy terms detailed above show that curtailing a trip as a result of FCDO advice isnt 
one of the specific, listed events for which cover is provided. And having reviewed the remaining terms and conditions, I dont think there is another section of the policy which 
would provide cover for the circumstances Mr and Mrs A found themselves in. So, I agree on 
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr and Mrs As claim simply isnt covered by the 
terms of their contract.
But I must also consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of 
the case, taking into account the industry rules Ive already mentioned and the relevant law. 
Having thought about this case very carefully, I currently dont think that applying the strict 
interpretation of the policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome here. Ill explain 
why.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And then on 23 March 2020, all UK citizens were 
instructed to return home. Had Mr and Mrs A remained abroad, rather than returning home 
at the first available opportunity, theyd have been staying abroad against FCDO advice, and 
it is likely they would have no cover under the policy. 
Under the terms and conditions of the policy, curtailment of a holiday due to changes in 
FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear 
to Mr and Mrs A within the policy documents that were provided to them.
URV said Mr and Mrs A chose to purchase the policy without this protection as they had 14 
days following the sale in which to check that it was right for them. However, Mr and Mrs A 
would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that 
the situation they found themselves in wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information 
was brought to their attention in a clear, prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the 
combined effect of the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to them.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs A and 
URV. Im of the opinion that, if Mr and Mrs A had realised there was no cover under the 
policy if they needed to curtail their trip because FCDO guidance changed, its likely they 
would have been able to find an alternative policy elsewhere which did provide the cover 
they needed.
URV has also commented that the FCDO exclusion was already in place prior to the 
pandemic becoming a known entity and so it doesnt think this should be used as a basis for 
cover. But I dont think this is the case here. Rather the pandemic has merely highlighted 
that the exclusion relating to changes in FCDO advice has not been detailed in a clear and 
prominent manner.
So, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr and Mrs As claim 
as covered under the curtailment section of their policy. URV should assess the claim under 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Union Reiseversicherung AG need to treat Mr and Mrs As claim as covered under the 
curtailment section of their policy and assess the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman