DRN-4265878
The complaint
Mr M complains that Handelsbanken plc closed his account. He is unhappy with the way he 
has been treated by the bank over the years. He would like his account reinstated and for 
the behaviour to stop. He would also like compensation.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Handelsbanken. 
In March 2020 the bank asked Mr M to provide information to them, in particular some bank 
statements and credit card statements. Mr M was unhappy with being asked to provide this 
information. Handelsbanken requested the information again in April 2020 and this time 
Mr M provided the information to them.
In May 2022 Handelsbanken wrote to Mr M and said they would have to close Mr Ms 
account. Because of Brexit they would no longer be offering accounts to those customers 
living outside the UK and his account would close in August 2022. They gave Mr M two 
months notice in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr M complained to the bank. He was unhappy with the decision to close the account as 
well as the service he had received from Handelsbanken.
Handelsbanken didnt think they had done anything wrong when they closed the account. 
They did think they could have done better when they requested the information from Mr M. 
So, they upheld that part of the complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with the response, so he complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Handelsbanken hadnt done anything 
wrong when it closed Mr Ms account. She thought Handelsbanken had accepted that they 
could have given a better service and she agreed with their upholding this aspect of the 
complaint.  Mr M was unhappy that Handelsbanken had intimated they would start charging 
a management fee. She thought although Mr M hadnt been affected by the change, the 
banks terms and conditions allowed them to do this.
Mr M was unhappy with the view. As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me 
and I issued a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account closure
Mr Ms account was closed in August 2022. He has said he doesnt think Handelsbanken 
have given him the real reason for closing the account. He doesnt think its related to Brexit. 
He thinks the bank could have kept his account open but have chosen for commercial 
reasons not to.
I can see Handelsbanken gave Mr M two months notice of the closure of his account, and 
he was able to access his account during the notice period.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Handelsbanken wrote to Mr M and let him know it was closing his account giving him 60 
days notice. So, Im satisfied Handelsbanken closed the accounts in line with the account 
terms.
I appreciate Mr M is very unhappy with the closure of his account. He has told us of the 
inconvenience of having his account closed, especially as he lives abroad. Having looked at 
the terms Im satisfied Handelsbanken were entitled to close the account and gave Mr M the 
correct notice.
Handelsbanken have made a commercial decision following Brexit that they will no longer 
offer banking facilities to customers living outside the UK. They are entitled to make this 
commercial decision and I cant see they have acted unfairly in doing so.
I know Mr M is suspicious that there are other reasons behind his account closure. Mr M is 
concerned because he was asked to provide a lot of information by the bank in the last few 
years.
As the investigator mentioned UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated 
financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of 
transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This 
applies to both new and existing relationships and is an ongoing obligation. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Handelsbanken were complying with 
these obligations when they requested that Mr M provide the statements and ID information.
So, although I accept, as do Handelsbanken, that they could have done better in the way 
they handled these requests, Im satisfied that Handelsbanken were entitled to ask Mr M for 
this information. And looking at the information provided I would like to reassure Mr M that I 
havent seen any evidence of Handelsbanken acting inappropriately.
Customer service
Mr M has said he is upset with the way he has been treated by staff at the branch since 5 
September 2018. He feels he has been harassed and believes that the bank have been 
wanting to close his account all this time.
As I have mentioned above, I dont think the bank have acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms 
account. In addition, Im satisfied Handelsbanken were entitled to ask for the information 
they requested to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. I have seen no evidence 
that Handelsbanken wanted to close Mr Ms account from 2018 or that any requests for 
information were fuelled by a desire to close his account.
Handelsbanken themselves have acknowledged they could have done better because of the 
way they asked for the information and didnt keep track of what had been previously 
provided. They have acknowledged Mr Ms distress at the way he was treated in branch. 
They have apologised and upheld this part of his complaint.
I appreciate it caused Mr M annoyance and distress to receive a letter from the bank about 
how they would communicate with him even though his account was closed. I know Mr M didnt want to complain to the bank. The bank nevertheless investigated and agreed this 
shouldnt have happened  they apologised.
I have considered the way Mr M was treated and the service he received from 
Handelsbanken. Although the bank has apologised, I think they should pay Mr M £100 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M. I can see that receiving 
letters after the account was closed and being asked for information that had already been 
provided caused Mr M distress and contributed to his concerns.
Mr M mentioned he was unhappy Handelsbanken were planning to charge him a monthly 
fee for having his account. I can see that he was never charged the fee, so he hasnt 
incurred a loss here. However, I am satisfied that the terms and conditions of the account he 
agreed to at the time he opened it, allow Handelsbanken to add charges.
In summary I acknowledge that having his account closed caused Mr M a great deal of 
inconvenience, but I am satisfied Handelsbanken didnt act unfairly when they closed the 
account, and I wont be asking them to reinstate it. They could have provided Mr M with a 
better customer service in particular in the way they asked for the information they required 
and in the post closure correspondence, so I am asking Handelsbanken to pay Mr M £100 in 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Handelsbanken havent provided any further comments.
Mr M has said I have contradicted myself in the provisional findings. Mr M doesnt think the 
closure of his account is related to Brexit but is for commercial reasons and I have later in 
the provisional decision referred to Handelsbanken being entitled to make commercial 
decisions about who they provide accounts to.
Mr M has said Handelsbanken should have requested more information at the time he 
wanted to open the account instead of waiting until years later. Mr M thinks that 
Handelsbanken wanted to get customers through the door and then discarded them when it 
suited them.
Mr M has said he wouldnt want to continue banking with Handelsbanken even if they were 
to offer to reinstate his account.
Mr M is unhappy with the level of compensation and suggests that £10,000 would be more 
appropriate for the way he has been treated. He has looked at information on our website 
and believes he has suffered trouble and upset, distress and inconvenience and mental 
anguish and he thinks the compensation should reflect this.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead an issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In response to the provisional decision Mr M has highlighted a number of concerns, which Ill 
now address below. 
Mr M has said I have contradicted myself. I disagree. In my provisional decision I said 
Handelsbanken said they would no longer be offering accounts to customers living outside 
the UK because of Brexit. This is a commercial decision that Handelsbanken have made, 
and they are entitled to make these types of commercial decisions. Mr Ms comment 
suggests that a commercial reason is somehow arbitrary, but I dont agree with this 
interpretation. As I have said the bank can make a commercial decision to close a 
customers account and they are entitled to do so.
I have outlined financial institutions have legal and regulatory obligations that they have to 
comply with. These apply not only when an account is open but is ongoing. Mr M implies that 
Handelsbanken didnt do proper checks when they opened the account and therefore had to 
do checks later on. However, although Handelsbanken likely carried out checks when they 
opened the account for Mr M, they were entitled to request further information from him and 
review his account when they did because of their ongoing legal and regulatory obligations. 
So, I dont think they have done anything wrong here.
I note that Mr M would prefer not to bank with Handelsbanken.
Mr M has said he considers the level of compensation awarded to be insulting. He has 
looked at our website. The Financial Ombudsman Service publishes on its website 
information about the awards we made for distress and inconvenience, or non-financial loss. 
Having looked at all of the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable in this case and is in line with awards made in similar 
circumstances. Mr M hasnt provided me with any further information which would lead me to 
change my original conclusion.
I have considered all the evidence originally provided as well as the comments made in 
response to my provisional decision. Having done so I am not persuaded that I should 
change my provisional decision.
In summary, I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, but I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should not be 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and 
form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Handelsbanken Plc to 
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Handelsbankens 
communications. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman