DRN-3391192
The complaint
Ms M complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent her money on a high interest loan which 
she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Ms M was provided with a loan by Everyday on 30 June 2014 for £2,500, plus a life 
insurance premium of £187, repayable over 24 months at the rate of £240 a month. The loan 
was repaid on 14 September 2015. 
Ms M struggled to keep up with the repayments after December 2014, offering lower 
repayment instalments. She paid off the balance in a lump sum in September 2015. She 
later complained to Everyday that it had lent to her irresponsibly. Everyday initially said that 
Ms M was out of time for making a complaint. But an ombudsman decided that we could 
consider the complaint.
Everyday said that it reviewed Ms Ms financial circumstances. Its checks included: 
Obtaining and reviewing two months bank statements from Ms Ms primary bank 
account. 
Obtaining and reviewing one months payslip.
Conducting a Credit Search.
Carrying out a job check.
In calculating Ms Ms outgoings using Office for National Statistics (ONS) data and assessed 
those at 35% of her income. It paid off two mail order accounts, for which it assessed Ms M 
had been paying a total of about £17 a month, before releasing the balance to her. It said the 
purpose of the loan was to consolidate Ms Ms debts, which included a number of payday 
loans. It believed the loan was affordable to her, leaving her with a monthly disposable 
income of around £427, after accounting for the loan instalment.
Our adjudicator said Ms Ms total credit repayments represented a significant proportion of 
her income. She said there was a significant risk that Ms M wouldnt have been able to meet 
her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, she thought it unlikely Ms M 
wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan.
Everyday disagreed  it said the creditors were accounted for during the affordability checks 
at the time the loan was taken, and Ms M still had sufficient disposable income left.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms M undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I have noted that Everyday obtained two months of bank statements from Ms M. Those 
statements revealed that she had several active payday loan accounts open. Several of 
those were opened in the two months prior to the loan application. There were also some 
details on Everydays file of the balances left on those accounts. I calculate total balances of 
around £2,000. Ms M had been paying paid about £355 a month towards them.
So, as the loan was supposed to be for consolidation, I think it would have been important to pay off those debts. Instead, Everyday just paid off two mail order accounts (which saved 
her about £17 a month) from the loan monies and didnt choose to pay off the loans, which I 
think it could have done. Ms M had an income, of about £1,492 a month. With a hire 
purchase loan costing her £206 and the new loan payment, her credit commitments would 
have been about 54% of her income, which would in my view have been unsustainable. 
I havent seen bank statements after the loan, and Ms M cant obtain them, but if I assume 
that she did pay off those payday loans, it would bring that figure down to about 30% of her 
income, still high but possibly affordable if she had sufficient disposable income. Whilst I 
understand Everydays use of average outgoings, where it has bank statements it should 
have been possible to calculate Ms Ms outgoings more accurately. I think, just from regular 
outgoings and cash withdrawals, the figure for living expenses was more like £1,000 rather 
than the £523 assessed. This would have left her with no disposable income, rather than the 
£427 assessed by Everyday. Whilst the account didnt fall into overdraft for the two month 
period, Ms M did receive payments from loan companies totalling around £800.
I appreciate that figures over two months are just a snapshot and that its difficult to work out 
an exact figure for monthly outgoings. But I think, in light of the fact that Ms M had so many 
active recent payday loans which werent paid off directly by Everyday, and that her income 
appeared to be fully committed that the loan was also unlikely to be affordable for Ms M.
So I dont think Everyday made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Ms M has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and charges 
as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges (including insurance premiums) applied to the 
loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms M as payments towards the capital amount of £2,500.
If Ms M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove, as appropriate, any adverse information about the loan from Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022
. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman