DRN-4462325
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco 
Bank) allowed a joint account holder to take money out of a savings account.
What happened
Miss C had a savings account with Tesco Bank. The account was held in joint names 
between her and her ex-husband, but only Miss C was actively using the account.
Miss C noticed that she didnt receive a statement for November and December 2022 and 
that she was unable to log in via her online banking. However, when Miss C received a 
statement for January 2023, she could see that money had been removed from the account.
Miss C contacted Tesco Bank, who explained that it had acted in line with the terms and
conditions related to joint accounts and allowed the other joint account holder to make 
transfers out of the account, as they were entitled to do. 
Miss C complained to Tesco Bank because she was unhappy that Tesco Bank had allowed 
the joint account holder to access the account. Miss C had ended her relationship with the 
other account holder and so said they should not have been allowed to access her money. 
Miss C has explained that there were Court Orders in place between Miss C and her ex-
husband.
Tesco Bank responded to Miss Cs complaint on 1 February 2023, explaining that 
unfortunately, it wasnt aware of the situation between Miss C and the other joint account 
holder, so wouldnt have been aware that he shouldnt have been able to access the 
account. Tesco Bank explained it had allowed the activity in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, so wouldnt be upholding the complaint.
After Miss C referred her complaint to this service, one our investigators assessed the 
complaint. Although the investigator was very sympathetic to Miss Cs circumstances, they 
were unable to say that Tesco Bank had acted incorrectly or unfairly by allowing the other 
joint account holder to transfer money out of the account. 
Miss C didnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint, for largely the same 
reasons that the investigator provided. I will explain why.
As both Tesco Bank and the investigator have explained, joint account holders are jointly 
and severally liable for a joint bank account. This also means that either account holder can 
pay money in and pay money out of a joint account without involving the other joint account 
holder  indeed as Miss C has done for a number of years since she split up with the other 
joint account holder. This is reflected in the account terms and conditions which say:
How do joint accounts work?
Either one of you can discuss the account with us or take decisions about it.
That means that either one of you will be able to withdraw all of the money in your
account, unless you tell us otherwise.
Miss C says she had an informal agreement with the other account holder that he would no 
longer use the account. This resulted in the account remaining as a joint account. But 
unfortunately, this meant that as long as the other joint account holders name remained on 
the account, he was still entitled to withdraw money from the account in question - and that 
was the case, even if all of the money held in the account had been paid in solely by Miss C.
I recognise that Miss C had split up with the other joint account holder, in what sounds like 
very horrible circumstances. In such situations, the account terms and conditions say that:
If we become aware of a disagreement between the joint account holders we will
block the account and contact you both to tell you we have done this. We will then
need agreement from both of you before we can remove the block on the account.
However, from all of the evidence that I have seen, it doesnt seem that Miss C ever made 
Tesco Bank aware of her situation or that she disputed the other account holder having 
continuing access to the account. At most, it sounds like Miss C mayve questioned if she 
could remove the joint account holder  but Miss C says she was told that shed need the 
consent of the other joint account holder to do that, which is correct. Indeed, had it been the 
other way round and the other joint account holder wanted to remove Miss C from the 
account, Im sure Miss C can understand why Tesco Bank would need to get her consent 
first, before allowing her removal from the account. 
Miss C has said that Tesco Bank shouldve stopped the transfers that the other account 
holder made, on account of them being unusual. However, although I appreciate that the 
other account holder may not have made any transactions on the account for a number of 
years, he was still entitled to make such transactions. 
From Tesco Banks perspective, it wouldve simply appeared that one of the joint account 
holders had decided to withdraw funds from a savings account and asked to close the 
account. This in my view is not unusual. I appreciate from Miss Cs perspective and given 
what shed experienced, the request to withdraw the money from the account couldve been 
viewed as unusual. But Tesco Bank was not aware of the difficult circumstances shed 
experienced and so didnt have the benefit of her knowledge to have known any different. I 
also dont think that the other joint account holder having a different address ought to have 
prompted Tesco Bank to question whether Miss C was happy for the other account holder to 
still use the account. 
Had Miss C told Tesco Bank about the situation, it wouldve likely prompted Tesco Bank to 
follow its joint account disagreement process. I realise that Miss C may not have thought that 
she needed to tell Tesco Bank that she didnt want the other account holder to use it. But 
without doing that  I cant see any reason that it could have fairly had cause for concern 
about anything that was happening on the account. 
Finally, I note that Miss C says she didnt receive statements from the account in October 
and November 2022 and so wasnt aware of the transactions. However, even if Miss C didnt receive the statements in question, that doesnt change the fact that the other account holder 
was able to make the transfers out of the account.
Overall, I have a great deal of sympathy for Miss Cs circumstances. But for the reasons I 
have outlined above, I cant say that Tesco Bank is at fault, essentially because it allowed an 
account holder to remove funds from an account in their name. It is the case that I cant 
reasonably hold Tesco Bank responsible because Miss C never got round to removing the 
other account holder from her account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman