DRN-2380602
The complaint
Mr B has complained that he could not withdraw large amounts of cash using his 
chequebook at TSB Bank plc (TSB).
What happened
In June 2020, Mr B visited his local branch of TSB. He wanted to withdraw cash with his 
chequebook. He was told that he couldnt do this without identification. He showed his 
driving licence, which was copied. The cash withdrawal was completed. He was told that the 
limit for withdrawing cash without a debit card was £50 per day. He doesnt have a debit 
card.
Mr B complains that he wasnt advised earlier about the change in policy. And he believes 
that it is unfair to older people. He was also worried that a copy of his driving licence was 
taken  this was a concern to him. He said that the compensation of £30 paid by TSB wasnt 
enough.
Mr B complained to TSB which said that the maximum amount of cash that can be 
withdrawn from branch counters without a debit card is £50 per day. They said that the 
branch were correct in asking to see identification, but were wrong to take a copy of Mr Bs 
driving licence. They said that the copy of it would be destroyed. They paid £30 
compensation and suggested that Mr B asks for a debit card when he next visits the branch.
Mr B complained to our service and an investigator looked into this. He said that TSB have 
the right to change their processes. They had explained their policy to Mr B in the branch in 
June 2020 and the cash withdrawal was completed. So, TSB has acted reasonably in that 
respect. He agreed that TSB shouldnt have taken a copy of Mr Bs driving licence, as all that 
was needed was to record the details of the driving licence on the back of the cheque. 
Because of this, TSB had apologised and paid compensation of £30. The copy had been 
destroyed.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about this. He believes that TSBs change of policy is 
unfair to elderly people, who might still wish to cash cheques in a branch as they have 
always done. But this service cannot tell TSB how to run its business and processes. We 
can only make judgements on whether TSB has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with 
Mr B. And in this case, I think TSB have acted fairly. I will explain why.
Mr B regularly withdrew cash from his TSB account to pay bills, usually for amounts between 
£200 and £500. When he was told on 1 June 2020 that TSBs policy had changed, he was 
understandably concerned. In an ideal world, the TSB branch would have advised 
customers who regularly withdrew large amounts of cash in advance of the new policy. But 
TSB clearly felt that the best way was to speak to customers at the time when a cash 
withdrawal was asked for.
I have seen evidence from the branch they explained the new process to Mr B. Identification 
was needed when cashing a cheque for more than £50. If a debit card was held, then the 
daily limit was much higher. The branch accepted Mr Bs driving licence as identification. 
They shouldnt have taken a copy of it and TSB have admitted this error. They apologised 
and paid £30 compensation, which I think is fair in the circumstances. I have seen 
confirmation that the copy of the driving licence has been destroyed.
So, I think that TSB dont need to any more. Mr B says that he is using a local building 
society for his regular cash withdrawals but that is some way away for him to travel. He 
might want to carry on with that, but if Mr B wants to use TSB again, one way forward for him 
would be to visit the branch again and ask for a debit card. That would mean that he can 
withdraw larger amounts of cash if he needs to. A debit card can be used to pay his bills, 
and it is secure. His local branch should be able to help him with that.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman