DRN-1386721
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that when he rang Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) about his account he was 
asked to provide his mobile telephone number as part of the security process. He thought 
this was unnecessary and as a means of security check it was flawed. He also complains 
that the advisor he spoke to was impersonal.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr D and Lloyds, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
When, in August 2019, Mr D rang Lloyds he was connected to an automated system where 
he entered his Personal Identification Number (PIN). He was then asked him to provide his 
mobile number, but as he viewed this as a flawed method of security checking he declined to 
give it. He has argued that the provision of his PIN number should have sufficed, and that his 
mobile number was known to many others.
When he complained to Lloyds, they rejected his complaint as they did not consider they had 
done anything wrong. They explained that their advisor had asked for Mr Ds mobile number 
because as part of their security and protection for their customers, they require those 
contact details so they can contact the customer immediately when that customer completes 
a transaction, to help combat fraud. 
Mr D was unhappy with Lloydss final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Lloyds 
had done anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence.  I 
have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats 
what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Lloyds has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.Lloyds has explained its security procedure and why it was seeking Mr Ds mobile number. I 
very much appreciate Mr Ds comments about security, and he may very well be right. I 
simply have no way of knowing, as I am not an expert in banking security measures. But all 
that is beside the point, because it is a matter entirely for Lloyds what security measures 
they put in place, and I am unable to tell them to change or alter them. Our service doesnt 
have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change 
their policy or procedures, or punish them. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstance of the individual complaint and check that the business followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
In Mr Ds case there is no evidence that Lloyds had only asked him for his mobile number, 
and they have explained it applies to all their customers. So, I must conclude that they are 
applying their policy to all their customers and thus they are being fair.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) takes a principles-based approach to conduct 
regulation and lets businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way 
they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under 
the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook.  Any overall concerns about business process or 
its security measures would need to be raised with the FCA.   
Mr D has said he thinks the advisor on the telephone was impersonal. Although I accept that 
might be Mr Ds perception, I have seen no evidence which would support this assertion. I 
note he feels the advisor was also poorly trained because he did not ask Mr D other security 
questions as an alternative, but of course the advisor was only following Lloyds procedures. 
So I dont think that shows he was not trained correctly. Further, and as I understand 
matters, Mr D decided to end the call because he thought the call was going nowhere, which 
prevented any further discussion. 
So, although Mr D will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman