DRN-3158834
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to close its overseas call centre 
resulted in a delayed transfer, which lost him money. 
 
What happened
Mr A holds a currency account and UK sterling account with Barclays. On 23 March 2020, 
around the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr A wanted to transfer $1.6million dollars from 
his currency account to his UK account.
Barclays limit their online internal transfers to a maximum of $250,000, so Mr A chose to call 
them. But after attempting to call several times, he was continually met with an automated 
message stating that, due to operational issues, Barclays were unable to answer. He called 
again the next day but was met with a new message stating that due to Covid-19, Barclays 
overseas call centres had closed.
Mr A called Barclays Premier banking line following this, who said he could instead visit a 
branch to complete the transaction. But, after visiting two branches over two days, he was 
told they use the same overseas call centre so were unable to help. 
Next, Mr A found a third-party currency broker that was able to assist, but this again 
presented challenges  as Barclays limit external transfers to a maximum of £100,000 
equivalent per day, which wouldve required him to carry out the transfer over multiple 
transactions. 
Mr A decided to complete the transfer using the broker rather than online, as while he had to 
complete it over a higher number of transactions, the broker was able to secure the rate 
upfront for each of the transfers that followed. If hed used Barclays, it wouldve been subject 
to further daily exchange rate fluctuations. But, by the time the funds had been transferred 
over, Mr A had lost a considerable sum of money  which he estimates to be in the region of 
£85,000. So, he complained.
Barclays responded to Mr As complaint and agreed they shouldnt have advised him to visit 
a branch. But they said the closing of their overseas call centre due to the pandemic was 
completely outside of their control, so they shouldnt be held accountable for Mr As loss. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr As complaint. He said that while the overseas call centre 
closing due to the pandemic was unprecedented, he felt Mr A had done everything within his 
power to mitigate his losses. And he thought it reasonable to expect Barclays to have put 
contingency plans in place that wouldve allowed Mr A to process this transaction within a 
reasonable timescale. He thought 48 hours was reasonable in the circumstances. So, he 
said Barclays should pay Mr A the difference between what he did receive and what he 
wouldve received into his UK account on 26 March 2020; had Barclays processed his 
request 48 hours after they were put on notice.
Both parties have agreed with the investigators recommendations. The outstanding point of 
contention is the amount Barclays have agreed to compensate Mr A. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, as set out above, both parties are now in agreement that a fair resolution to this 
complaint is for Barclays to reimburse Mr A his losses, based on the difference in the 
currency exchange rate between 26 March 2020 (48 hours after Barclays were first put on 
notice of Mr As intention to transfer the funds), and the rate he secured with the third-party 
broker, which Mr A subsequently went on to transfer the funds at. And, for the avoidance of 
doubt, I agree this is the fairest way to resolve matters. So, what is left for me to decide is 
how it should most fairly calculate those losses. 
Mr A feels that as Barclays caused a delay, he should receive the most preferential rate from 
26 March 2021 to compensate him for his losses. Whereas Barclays have calculated his 
losses based on the median average rate for that day.
 
Its difficult to determine the exact rate Mr A wouldve received had the transfer gone through 
on 26 March, as rates fluctuate throughout the day. But I agree that 26 March is when, after 
taking the pandemic into account, I think the transaction shouldve gone through. And I dont 
think its reasonable to attach a specific time to that transaction. Instead, I would have 
expected the transaction to have been processed at some point on that day. 
My role is to try and put Mr A back as near as possible to the position he wouldve been in, 
had it not been for any shortcomings on Barclays part. So, as I think the 26 March 2020 is a 
reasonable time by which Barclays shouldve completed the transfer, this means putting 
Mr A in the position he wouldve most likely been in, had the transfer gone through on that 
day  not 24 March 2020. 
When working out what rate to use, its fair to say the transaction couldve been processed 
at any point that day. It couldve been at the most preferential rate, as Mr A has requested, 
meaning he wouldve received more money. But equally it couldve been processed a point 
where rates were less favourable, meaning he wouldve received less than the investigator 
awarded. And theres no fair way to know exactly what rate wouldve been applied. 
Barclays has shown us the full range of rates on that day, and chosen the median average 
rate. In doing so, they have reached an exchange rate of 1.2202, inclusive of the margin 
they wouldve applied  the standard 0.3% margin for a transaction of that amount. And 
based on this, they have said Mr A wouldve received £1,330,893 into his account  
£24,557.27 more than he did. So theyve agreed to pay him this amount plus interest.
As Ive explained above that there is no clear way of knowing what rate the transfer wouldve 
gone through at. But I think using an average of the available rates on the day, is the fairest 
way to put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been, had the transaction gone through on 
26 March 2020. And using the median average, shows no favour to either party. I therefore 
think Barclays should put things right as follows. 
  
Putting things right
Barclays should, as its agreed to:- Pay Mr A the difference between the amount he received into his account following 
the transfer, and what he wouldve received, had the transfer been processed on the 
26 March 2020  using Barclays median average rate for that day. 
Pay Mr A 8% interest on this amount, from 26 March 2020 to the date of settlement.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put 
things right as set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman