DRN-4246719
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society has refused to refund a direct debit 
payment.
What happened
Mr J says he transferred his account to Nationwide from a business I will call C. He says a 
direct debit payment of just over £220 to a business I will call A was also transferred. Mr J 
says he was in dispute with A about treatment cover and that C refunded a number of 
payments he made to it, but Nationwide would not for an October 2022 direct debit. He 
would like that money refunded as A hasnt provided the service he paid for.
Nationwide says this is a clear dispute between Mr J and A and that the Direct Debit 
Guarantee doesnt apply in those circumstances. It says the letter Mr J has provided from A 
says that it has agreed to cancel the policy but is dated in 2023 some time after the direct 
debit was authorised in October 2022.
Mr J had brought his complaint to us, and our investigators final view was that Nationwide 
didnt make a mistake. The investigator thought Mr J may have received a refund in any 
event and thought this was a dispute between him and A.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says the refund in question was from C not A. He 
maintains A hasnt provided the service he paid for and questions why C would refund the 
payments but not Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place. 
The Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) protects a customer in the event of an error with for 
example the amount taken or on the wrong date. The DDG is clear that its not designed to 
address contractual disputes between the parties.
Im satisfied that its clear Mr J was in dispute with A and that is not in dispute. I have seen 
some of the letters between Mr J and A and can see he has made formal complaints about 
A. So, Im satisfied that Nationwide was entitled to conclude that Mr Js request to refund the 
direct debit was based on his dispute with A and so not something covered by the DDG. Im 
also satisfied that Nationwide correctly concluded that it didnt have any grounds to request a 
refund under the DDG.
I appreciate Mr J has given us a letter from A dated in 2023 confirming the policy is now 
cancelled and the cancellation has been backdated to 2022. I dont think that letter has any 
impact on my decision here as the key date is October 2022 when the policy was in force. If 
A has now cancelled the policy, then no doubt Mr J will ask it to refund any premiums, but I 
make clear that is not something I require Nationwide to do for the reasons set out.
I dont think the issue about any possible refund to Mr Js account in late 2022 is relevant. 
The key issue is if Nationwide made a mistake by refusing to refund the direct debit payment 
and I have made clear I find it had no grounds to refund the direct debit.
Overall, Im satisfied that the DDG is clear, that it cant be used to resolve contractual 
disputes. There can be no doubt this was a contractual dispute between A and Mr J and that 
Nationwide could not refund the direct debit in those circumstances. I cant comment on 
what C may or may not have done as I can only consider the actions of Nationwide which I 
find were appropriate as well as fair.
It follows that I cant fairly order Nationwide pay Mr J the compensation he would like or 
refund the direct debit. I find this decision now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute informally can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman