DRN-2614514
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how London General Insurance Company Limited trading as The 
Warranty Group (TWG) dealt with a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S bought a phone from a high street retailer and purchased an insurance policy at the 
same time. Shortly afterwards he made a claim for the mobile phone with TWG and sent the 
phone to them for repair. 
When Mr S received the phone back, he said it looked like initials had been carved into the 
back of it. Mr S sent photos to TWG who reviewed them and said the damage was to the 
protective film and not the phone itself. 
At that point Mr S said there was a problem whilst the phone was charging  it was getting 
very warm. TWG asked Mr S to send the phone back to their repair team so they could 
understand what was happening. 
Mr S sent the phone back and TWG tested it for charging issues. They found no problem 
with the charging. They acknowledged the phone did get a little hot, but this was no concern 
as all phones do this after a period of time. They arranged to send the phone back to him. 
Mr S decided he no longer wanted the phone so told TWG that hed be purchasing a new 
phone and requested a refund. Mr S says this was agreed by TWG. TWG say their claims 
handler explained they couldnt agree to this.
Mr S wasnt happy with TWGs response so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think TWG had done anything wrong. 
She thought TWG acted in line with the terms and conditions when dealing with the charging 
issues. She also didnt think TWG agreed to provide Mr S with a refund.
Mr S disagreed. He said he was very clear during the call that hed be buying a new phone 
and that TWG didnt object to this or expressly say he wouldnt receive a refund. So, he 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint is centred around what was said in the phone call when Mr S told 
TWG hed be buying a new phone.
Ive listened to this call recording. Mr S did make it clear that he wanted a refund for the 
phone because he was going to buy a new one. When the handler from TWG said he 
couldnt do that, Mr S asked to speak to a manager who could authorise it. 
During the call, the handler from TWG says, I appreciate where youre coming from, but my 
hands are tied, there isnt anything else I can do on this. 
This is a very clear statement from the TWG handler saying they wouldnt agree to a refund. 
From there, Mr S asks to speak to a manager and logs the complaint. 
The handler does empathise with Mr S situation as Mr S has said but he follows this straight 
up with confirmation of the next steps; a call back from a manager on Monday. The handler 
says:
I completely agree with what youre saying, it looks like its been really difficult to get 
this booked in so I can completely see where youre coming from. And this is 
something, Ill speak with him [the manager] about first thing Monday morning.
I dont agree this means TWG said theyd refund the phone. Its simply the TWG handler 
expressing empathy for Mr S situation and logging the complaint. 
Mr S tells the handler from TWG that hed be buying a new phone:
Can you put a note on there, Im going to buy a new phone today Im not going to 
accept anything other than a full refund ok? And that needs to be put on there - 
otherwise I mean, Im a lawyer  Ill just sue you.
The handler responds to say, Alright Ill put this all on there. This doesnt show acceptance 
of Mr S position, only that the handler had made a note of it.
Mr S argues that he left the call under the impression that hed be receiving a refund based 
on the final exchange on the subject of the refund. Mr S says:
What I'd like is either you or a manager asking me "What are your card details? 
We're crediting you the refund. Obviously you need the phone back to sort that out, 
so I'm assuming the phone will be collected on Monday. If not, I need an address and 
I'll courier it to you and I'll charge you for the courier costs. OK?"
The TWG handler says, OK, I'll put all this on there. And Mr S says, Brilliant.
Its clear the call handler from TWG doesnt agree to the refund. Hes making a note of Mr S 
complaint and the desired outcome. The call ends by confirming the managers name and 
the call back time on Monday.
The whole conversation is about logging a complaint and getting a manager to look into 
things because Mr S wasnt happy with the process and the TWG handler wouldnt agree to 
a refund. 
This was made expressly clear, so I dont think Mr S left the conversation under any 
impression that TWG had agreed to a refund, only that his complaint was being escalated to 
a manager. 
The call is entirely focused around Mr S dissatisfaction with the process. Whilst he made it 
clear that hed be buying a new phone, TWG made it clear from the start of the call that they 
couldnt agree to refunding him. 
I also need to consider whether Mr S would ever have been entitled to a refund under the 
terms of the policy. Theres no dispute here that TWG acted in line with the policy terms when initially repairing 
Mr S phone. The circumstances in dispute arose from when Mr S received the repaired 
phone. 
TWGs policy terms and conditions say:
If your claim is validated and approved, dependent on the nature of the fault, at our 
discretion, we will;
- Ask you to send the mobile phone to us for inspection and/or repair
- Issue a replacement mobile phone or settlement (refer to important information        
about the claims process below); or
- Ask you to source an independent authorised service technician, pay for the repair 
and claim this cost back from us.
They also say:
If the authorised service facility determines that the mobile phone is in working
condition or the fault or damage is not covered by your policy, we will return the
mobile phone to you or dispose of it at your request.
The initial claim was validated and the phone was repaired in line with the terms above. But 
on inspection, the claim for overheating wasnt accepted, so none of the following settlement 
steps set out above needed to be implemented. 
This is because TWGs engineers have shown they established there was no fault with the 
phone, so they arranged to send it back to Mr S. This is standard practice because the 
phone isnt TWGs property, its Mr S. 
This also means theres no claim or cover under the policy. TWG returned the phone to Mr S 
because there was nothing wrong with it. TWG would never issue a refund  this isnt an 
option in the policy terms. 
Refunding a phone is not generally an option under a mobile insurance policy because the 
phone wasnt purchased from the insurer, but from the retailer. The terms do allow for a 
replacement phone or a settlement. But this is only if theres a valid claim. 
TWG have shown that theres no cover for Mr S phone in the circumstances. So, theyve 
acted fairly when declining to refund or offer any other settlement. 
Overall, Im satisfied TWG acted reasonably towards Mr S. They dealt with the initial claim 
by repairing the phone. They checked the phone for a fault Mr S raised following that repair. 
Their engineers found no fault present so returned the phone to him. 
They didnt need to do anything further under the terms and conditions of the policy. And at 
no point did they agree to a refund for the phone.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman