DRN-3097667
The complaint
Mr C complains Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) shouldnt have given him a short-term
loan. He says, more thorough background checks shouldve been made when assessing
whether or not the loan shouldve been granted.
What happened
Our adjudicator dismissed Mr Cs complaint without considering the merits. Mr C didnt agree 
with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not intending to dismiss 
the complaint. But after looking at the evidence and arguments I had been provided with, I 
wasnt able to uphold Mr Cs complaint about the repayments he was making. A copy of the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings (in italics) follow this and form part 
of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr C had previously raised a complaint with H&T about four loans that it was able to locate
between March 2012 and February 2014. These loans have already been considered by this
Service under a separate complaint reference. These loans wont be revisited here.
However, Mr C says there was a payday loan issued by the East Kilbride branch prior to the
loans listed above. Mr C says he provided H&T evidence of payments he made to H&T
before March 2012.
H&T told Mr C that it couldnt find any record of the payday loan(s) that Mr C says he had.
The only records it has found relate to the four loans issued between 2012 and 2014.
Our adjudicator dismissed Mr Cs complaint without consideration of the merits because he
was satisfied that H&T couldnt locate any payday loans in its records. And while Mr C had
provided evidence of some payments to H&T the adjudicator didnt know what those
payments related to.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators findings. In summary, he has said:
Mr C has asked for details of his payday loans
the amounts Mr C paid H&T equate to the interest due on a £600 loan
the first loan H&T can locate was repaid via direct debt, yet the payments on the
statements show debit card payments
Mr C says the payday loan and the first fixed sum agreement were clearly linked
Mr C has asked for a copy of the fixed sum loan agreement for the loan taken at the
end of March 2012
Mr C told us he moved from Fife to East Kilbride, which is the year H&T initially
acknowledged they founds loans for  but it now says this was a mistake
Mr C doesnt have copies of the payday loan agreements as these were taken out in
store and paper copies werent provided. He also says that these loans were taken
out nearly 10 years ago and hes moved to house several times.
Later on, after Mr C was informed his case was being passed to an ombudsman, he made
the following comments;
he is frustrated that H&T hasnt supplied a copy of the March 2012 loan application
H&T hasnt been able to provide details of the service that Mr C was paying for
Mr C says its poor H&T hasnt provide historic transaction data
H&T told Mr C that there were historic loans but now says this was a mistake
from the point this complaint was referred to this service, Mr C has always referred to
payday loans
Mr C historically was a regular users of payday loans from a number of different
lenders and this is the only complaint where he has been asked to provide evidence
and details of the loans.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dismissal
To be clear, this decision wont be revisiting the four loans H&T has already looked at and
have been considered by this service.
However, unlike the adjudicator Im minded not to dismiss the complaint. I actually think this
is a complaint that this Service can take forward. However, even without dismissing the
complaint that doesnt mean Mr Cs complaint will be successful and Ive explained why
below.
This Service can help with lots of financial service disputes, but its not always appropriate 
for us to do so. The adjudicator said that the case should be dismissed, because there is no
evidence of any short term loans, and this Service had already considered a complaint
about the lending that H&T had been able to locate.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority DISP rules which govern the way we handle
complaints, DISP 3.3.4A (for complaints received after 9 July 2015) provides grounds on
which we may dismiss a complaint without looking at the merits first.
One of those grounds (and the one I think is most relevant here) is in DISP 3.3.4A (5) which
says: dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. None of the other examples, or reason to
dismiss within DISP 3.3.4A in my view, apply in this case.
For a case to be dismissed, in these sorts of circumstances this service would have to be
satisfied, that there was no lending or relationship between the two parties for the period in
question  that being prior to March 2012. But from what Ive seen, there does appear to
have been some relationship.
H&T has provided this Service with a screen shot showing all the lending that it was able to
find, and which has already been looked at, considered and settled. However, Mr C hasprovided this Service with bank statements that show from at least January 2012 he was
making payments to H&T. So clearly, there was some form of relationship that existed
between Mr C and H&T.
If Mr C had no evidence of repayments, then given everything else Ive seen Id be minded
to conclude that this case shouldnt proceed. This is because, this Service wouldnt be able
to investigate a complaint when there is no evidence that there was any relationship
between the parties. But Mr C has provided some evidence.
So, Im using my discretion as afforded to me, by the DISP rules to conclude that this isnt a
case that should be dismissed, because as far as I can see, there is no reason, under the
rules, that would allow me to dismiss.
I dont think that Mr Cs complaint, if this complaint was to proceed, would fall into the
category of being a serious impairment to this services effective operation. So, Im intending
to conclude that this complaint can proceed.
The complaint
However, just because this complaint is one that can be taken forward that doesnt mean the
complaint will be successful. Indeed, given the very limited information that is available, Im
intending to conclude that this complaint cannot be upheld. Ive explained why below.
Mr C has been able to provide copies of his bank statements which show that he made at
least four payments to H&T between 30 January and 19 March 2012. Importantly, these
payments were made before the four loans that H&T has previously identified and dealt with.
Indeed, Mr C says the first of the loans that H&T has found was used to repay the credit that
he was servicing at the start of 2012.
So, I can reasonably conclude that Mr C owed H&T money for something. But what we cant
tell from the bank statements is what sort of credit / product or facility Mr C was repaying.
Equally, Mr C has provided this service with testimony around these being cheque loans,
while this is possible, as this is a product that H&T offered, based on the information that
I have to hand, Im not able to conclude this was the case. That isnt to say these payments
werent in connection with a cheque loan (or indeed a payday loan) but the evidence just
doesnt support that because the bank statements dont provide enough detail.
In response, H&T says that it cant find any evidence of payday loans. While it acknowledges
that Mr C has evidence that it paid it something, it suggests that this could be a number of
different things included, but not limited to, regulated and non-regulated products. Based on
the information, it doesnt know, and so I cant conclude either what product Mr C had, as
there isnt enough evidence.
Mr C says that if H&T could provide the credit agreement for the first loan (the one in March
2012) then it may show whether all or some of this loan went towards repaying previous
lending. This would, at least demonstrate that there was an established relationship, the
balance of the first loan and possibly help H&T locate further information.
H&T says it cant find any further information or provide this Service with any more evidence.
It also, on the previous complaint confirmed that the only information it had had been
provided. Again, suggesting there isnt anything else H&T can provide this service.
Ive considered what both parties have to say, and at the moment, I dont think there is
enough information for H&T to locate any possible further lending, let alone to be able touphold the complaint.
But there are a number of reasonable conclusions that I can draw, following a review of the
file, what Mr C says and the evidence that H&T has provided this service.
Looking at Mr Cs first complaint he raised (about the four loans H&T could locate), the credit
agreement for the loan issued at the end of March 2012 wasnt supplied to this service by
H&T. The reason H&T gave was that these were on a historic system  meaning the
information was no longer available.
However, a statement of account has been provided, but all this shows is that H&T lent Mr C
£600 at the end of March 2012 and it was repaid in January 2013. The statement of account
doesnt contain enough detail to be able to conclude that some of the amount borrowed went
to repay any previous loan.
H&T has also provided a result of the screen shots, this is a screen shot of its systems which
shows that the only loans it has been able to locate for Mr C are the ones that were
previously considered by this Service. There is no evidence that Mr C took other loans within
this system. I would add caution here, because we do know (from the bank statements) that
Mr C was making payments to H&T so there must have been some reason why he was
doing so.
Finally, I can understand Mr Cs frustration, because in an email, on 19 August 2020, H&T
does say that it located loans from 2007/2008. So understandably Mr C feels there are
further loans that H&T has been able to locate.
Ive made enquires with H&T about this, it has again confirmed this was an error. I
understand Mr C is unhappy about this, but I havent seen any further information to suggest
there were loans at that time.
Overall, while Im satisfied that Mr C was clearly paying H&T sums for something,
presumably some sort of loan, H&T havent been able to locate it or provide any information
about what the payments were in relation too. This could be due to the passage of time,
which given its nearly 10 years since the loan was granted, I dont consider to be
unreasonable.
Its also worth noting that Mr C is unhappy he has been asked to produce copies of credit
agreements, for either the March 2012 loan, or the payday loan that he says he had before
that. This was done because H&T has told us it cannot locate any further lending.
Without the credit agreements, for example, it is impossible to know the type of credit that
was given, how much was borrowed (if it needed money was lent) and the date that the
credit was granted. Without this information, this service cant conclude that H&T has done
anything wrong.
Therefore, as it stands, Im not recommending that this complaint be upheld.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by this outcome, but I hope my explanation proves
useful as to why I cant recommend H&T pays him compensation.
Both H&T and Mr C were asked to provide any further comments and evidence by 7 October 
2021. H&T didnt respond to the provisional decision. So, I dont know what it thinks about the 
proposed outcome I was intending to reach. 
Mr C responded and made the following points;
He was disappointed by the outcome that had been reached. 
H&T should be able to provide details of the service that he was paying for prior to 
March 2012.
He is frustrated that a statement of account has been provided for the first fix sum 
loan he took, which contains information only one month after the last repayment on 
the bank statements so H&T cant say that its records dont go back that far.
Mr C is sure the bank statements he has provided show roll over fees to a payday 
loan.
Mr C feels the application form for the first fixed sum loan that was taken out in 
March 2012 should be provided  as Mr C says this will show that he had an 
outstanding payday loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr Cs response, its clear his main concerns are around seeing a copy of the first 
fixed sum loan application form (for a loan in March 2012) as well as information around how 
H&T was able to supply the statement of account for the same loan. 
This Service contacted H&T prior to this final decision to see whether the above information 
was available and to see whether there was anything else it could tell us about the product 
that Mr C was repaying towards. 
H&T has responded to this Service, and it told us that it doesnt have anything further to 
provide. It said Unfortunately we do not have the application form you mention nor details 
about the product [full name] was using in 2012. It is not usual for us to retain information 
from that long ago
I know that this response is doing to disappoint Mr C, but this Service has asked for the 
information and have been told that isnt available. H&T has been consistent on this when 
dealing with this Service. I therefore, have to accept that the information Mr C is seeking isnt 
available because I have no further power to compel H&T to provide something that it has 
told us isnt available. 
It would help, if I clarify that the statement of account that I was able view as part of my 
investigation into this complaint, was provided to this Service by H&T, when Mr C brought 
his pervious complaint here about the fixed sum loan agreements.  The statements werent 
provided to this Service as part of this investigation. 
 
Equally, it is entirely possible that Mr C was making payments towards a pay day loan as he 
suggests. But, there isnt sufficient documentary evidence to show what the start date was, 
the amount borrowed or the total amount of interest charged. In the absence of any other 
evidence, which both parties have had enough opportunity to supply, I can only reach the 
same outcome that I reached in the provisional decision.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, H&T says there is no further information available. 
As neither Mr C or H&T have provided anything new or further for me to consider, Im therefore having to reach the same outcome that I reached in the provisional decision for 
broadly the same reasons. 
It is for these reasons that I do no uphold Mr Cs complaint. I know Mr C will be disappointed 
by this outcome given the time and energy he has put into brining this complaint here. But 
there just isnt enough documentary evidence to be able to uphold the complaint or conclude 
that H&T did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman