DRN-3880418
The complaint
Company E (E) complains Wise Payments Limited (Wise) restricted and blocked its 
account  and have continued to withhold around 90,000 Euros, and a nominal amount in a 
sterling account, from it.  
E wants the money returned to it. It also wants compensation for the loss of business, loss of 
reputation and inconvenience caused by Wises actions. Its also asked for a letter of 
apology from Wise. 
What happened
In December 2021, Wise deactivated and restricted Es account. Wise also withheld the 
funds in the account and continue to do so. 
Unhappy with what Wise had done, E complained. In summary Wise responded that Es 
account would remain closed, and funds in the account have been frozen by law 
enforcement. Wise also said it had failed to properly acknowledge Es complaint and offered 
compensation of £75 for this. 
E then referred its complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it and 
concluded Wise had done nothing wrong. In short, they said Wise had complied with 
regulatory, statutory, and legal obligations in blocking and closing the account  and by 
withholding the funds. 
E did not agree. It said it wasnt complaining about Wise following its processes properly but 
wanted to know when and how the funds will be given to it. 
As E didnt agree, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint E, so Ill 
explain why. 
Regulated financial businesses, like Wise, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means it needs 
to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
Ive looked carefully at the information Wise have given me about concerns it had. And 
having done that, Im satisfied it acted in line with the obligations it must follow when 
restricting Es account. 
Wise is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Wise closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Wise and E had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Wise, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. Neither Wise, nor I, are under any obligation, that Im 
aware of, to give a reason. I note, as above, that Wise did give E some explanation in its 
final response. 
I now get to the crux of Es complaint  that is, whether Wise are acting fairly by withholding 
the funds and when they will likely be released to it. 
Having seen Wises reasons and evidence for withholding the funds, Im satisfied it isnt 
acting improperly  Im satisfied its following the legal and regulatory obligations it must 
adhere to. As I dont think Wise are doing anything wrong, I wont be asking it to release the 
funds to E, nor am I able to say if, and when, they will be released. 
As Im satisfied Wise are acting in line with obligations placed on it, and that its acting both 
fairly and reasonably, I wont be directing it to pay compensation for any financial loss, 
inconvenience, and loss of reputation. 
As I dont think Wise have acted improperly, I also wont be asking it to issue a letter of 
apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman