DRN-3247693
The complaint
Miss T complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages (Siberite)
agreed to a payment holiday on her joint Buy to Let (BTL) mortgage without her consent. 
What happened
Miss T had a BTL mortgage with Siberite in the names of herself and her ex-partner (who I
will call A). The mortgaged property was rented out to tenants. Repayments were £219.04 
a month. In April 2020, A asked for a three-month payment holiday under the measures 
introduced by lenders as a result of COVID-19. Siberite agreed to this and no payments 
were made between June 2020 and August 2020. On 4 August 2020, a credit of £800 was 
paid into the mortgage account.
Miss T complained. She hadnt consented to the payment holiday and didnt need it or 
want it. There was enough rent coming in to pay the mortgage. She said Siberite shouldnt 
have agreed to it without her approval  and had therefore acted illegally. Her credit file 
had been marked - and shed been refused credit as a result. Shed asked Siberite for the 
cost of the payment holiday, but theyd not let her know.
Siberite said theyd acted fairly. Theyd agreed to the request from A for a payment holiday. 
That was in the best interests of both joint borrowers and theyd acted in line with their 
regulatory obligations. Siberite said that Miss Ts credit record wouldnt be negatively 
affected. If she wanted to make payments during the payment holiday, she could do  to 
limit the impact of interest charged. They said there werent any fees charged for the 
payment holiday. On a separate unrelated complaint, Siberite offered to pay compensation 
of £100.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator looked at what had happened. He 
said Siberite had acted reasonably. Theyd agreed the payment holiday under the COVID 
guidelines set down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and didnt need to obtain 
the agreement of both Miss T and A. Hed not seen that Miss Ts credit file had been 
affected. And hed not seen that any interest or fees had been added by Siberite  other 
than the deferred interest at the normal rate for the mortgage.
Miss T didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in March 2020  in response to the possible impact of 
COVID-19 on borrowers. Under the guidelines, lenders had to give a PH to borrowers on 
request. Initially, PHs were to be for three months from March 2020, but this was 
extended for a further three months in June 2020. PHs meant that for the three-month 
period, payments were suspended  but the normal contractual rate of interest would 
continue to be applied. No fees were to be charged for PHs. Businesses had to give 
customers clear information about the impact of a PH.
Miss T says that Siberite acted illegally in agreeing to a PH  because the mortgage was 
in the joint names of herself and A. She says it shouldnt have been granted without her 
agreeing to it, and she hadnt  the PH wasnt needed. And as a result, there would now 
be more interest to pay on the mortgage; and her credit file had been marked. Shes said 
that shes been declined credit because of this. Also, she hadnt been told of the cost of 
the PH by Siberite.
Ive considered what Miss T has said. The FCA guidelines for PHs dont say that they need 
to be asked for by both parties to a loan or mortgage. So  in this case, I dont think that 
Siberite needed to get the joint agreement of both Miss T and A for the PH. And  the PH 
was for the benefit of both Miss T and A  and so it was the right thing for Siberite to do. I 
say this because the PH gave them a three-month breathing space  without having to 
make the monthly repayments for that period. Miss T has said that there was enough rental 
income from the property to make the normal repayments. But also  the tenants couldve 
been impacted by COVID-19 and not been able to pay their rent  so in that sense, I think 
Siberite acted in the best interests of both Miss T and A in agreeing to the PH. During the 
conversation between Miss T and Siberite in April 2020, they informed her that she could 
keep making the payments during the payment holiday if she was able to, in order to 
reduce the impact of the interest accruing. So, if Miss T was worried about the ongoing 
costs of the payment holiday being agreed  she had the opportunity to minimise that by 
making the payments.
Miss T says that Siberite didnt tell her what the cost of the PH was. I can see that she sent 
a message to Siberite in July 2020 asking, Please provide the full amount of interest you 
will be adding to my loan for giving a mortgage holiday. Here, I think Miss T may have 
thought there were extra fees and interest to pay  and also wondered if the cost of the 
mortgage over the long term would cost more than if the monthly payments were made. I 
havent seen a reply to her request. Siberite wrote to Miss T on 28 August 2020  and said 
there would be no fees to pay. But  thats all they said. They didnt set out the overall 
terms and costs of the PH for Miss T and A  and they should have under the FCA 
guidelines.
Ive considered Miss Ts point about the longer-term effect of missing three payments. Its 
true  that this would mean that the term of the mortgage would also be extended by 
about the same period, and therefore there would be slightly more interest to pay over its 
remaining term. Siberite didnt set this out to Miss T or A  which under the FCA 
guidelines, they should have. I noted that Miss T paid £800 to the mortgage on 4 August 
2020  which made up for the three payments missed under the PH, so the additional 
interest cost of the PH was reduced by that in any case.
Miss T has said that her credit file has been affected and shes been declined for credit 
because of that. Siberite told her that they hadnt marked her credit file  and confirmed 
that to us. We asked her for her credit file which she gave to us. This shows that there 
werent any missed payments to Siberite showing. So  its clear that Miss Ts credit file 
wasnt affected. Lenders consider many things when taking decisions on whether to agree 
to credit or not. I cant say why Miss T has been declined for credit  but from what Ive 
seen, its not because Siberite marked her credit file.
And so  my provisional decision is that Siberite were correct in agreeing to the PH when A 
asked for it, and its also clear that Miss Ts credit file wasnt affected. But - Siberite 
shouldve set out more clearly the costs and impact of the PH  which they didnt. This has 
clearly caused some stress and inconvenience for Miss T  she asked for it several times, 
and Siberite didnt provide it. And, shes been worried about the cost of the PH. And 
because of that, I can see that its caused Miss T some frustration and concern. And so, for this  I think an award of £150 should paid. I noted that Siberite offered Miss T 
compensation a different complaint  thats separate and distinct from what I am 
recommending here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Siberite agreed with the provisional decision, but Miss T didnt. She said:
1. The PH wasnt needed and Siberite acted illegally in putting it in place.
2. She asked Siberite for the costs of the PH, but they didnt provide this.
3. Siberite breached FCA guidelines 
4. She was exposed to a higher debt and interest costs.
5. Siberite said the PH was free.
6. She said the compensation of £100 paid was for a separate incident  whereas it 
was for this complaint.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Following Miss Ts response, I reviewed Siberites call notes and listened to five calls which 
took place on 27 April 2020.
On Miss Ts first four points  I consider these are covered in the provisional decision. 
On her point (5), Siberite didnt say that the PH was free in the calls I listened to  or in the 
call notes which cover all of Miss Ts calls to Siberite in April 2020.
On her point (6)  I reviewed this again, and in Siberites notes the compensation of £100 
was paid in May 2020  when they agreed they should have accepted a certified copy of her 
divorce document instead of asking her for another copy. They also paid £6.70 for the cost 
of postage. So  that was a separate issue as Id said.
And so  having considered Miss Ts points, I wont be departing from my provisional 
decision and for the reasons I set out in it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages must:Pay compensation of £150 to Miss T for distress and inconvenience. Miss T must 
advise Siberite of the details of which account she wishes to have this paid to.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman