DRN-2593523
The complaint
Ms B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc has unfairly recorded her 
previous surname as an alias with credit reference agencies.
What happened
Ms B has a credit card account with Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M & S Bank). 
She says she checked her credit report and discovered her previous surname had been 
recorded under the description Alias. She says this information had been recorded by M & 
S Bank.
She contacted M & S Bank and asked it to remove this information. She says she hasnt 
used her previous surname since she got married, which is over forty years ago. She also 
said the fact that her credit report indicated she used an alias created some kind of criminal 
connotation. She told M & S Bank if it didnt remove this information from her credit file, she 
would close her account.
M & S Bank investigated her complaint. It said the term alias on the credit report was used 
to indicate any previous names by which Ms B had been known. It said Ms B had provided it 
with her previous surname when she applied for the credit card and it didnt do anything 
wrong when it correctly reported that information. So, it said it wouldnt remove this 
information from her credit file. It also said that if she wanted to, she could close her account.
M & S Bank accepted it hadnt replied to an email which Ms B had sent to it. So, it upheld 
that part of her complaint and paid her £50 by way of compensation. But it didnt uphold the 
rest of her complaint.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with this response. She says no other lender records this type of 
information. And, she says the dictionary definition of an alias is a false or assumed 
identity. So, she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said M & S Bank hadnt provided any credit to 
Ms B in her previous surname. And, in these circumstances, he thought it wasnt fair or 
reasonable to report this information to credit reference agencies.
He also said Ms B hadnt used her previous surname in the last six years to obtain credit 
and, in the same way as a default would drop off the credit report after six years, it wasnt 
fair or reasonable to keep a previous name on record.
He thought there would be no detriment to M & S Bank if it complied with Ms Bs request to 
remove the information. He said M & S Bank should remove the information and pay Ms B a 
further £50 by way of compensation for what had happened.
M & S Bank didnt agree. It said it had collected the information from Ms B and had correctly 
recorded it. It said that not all information dropped off the credit file after six years and it was 
wrong to compare this type of information with a default.
Because M & S Bank didnt agree the complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M & S Bank says Ms B was asked to complete an application form when she applied 
for the credit card. It says the form asked her to record any previous names. Ms B 
completed the form accurately. But, apart from the previous name being recorded on 
the form M & S Bank has never held data about Ms B using that name.
Ive looked at the privacy statement for M & S Bank. This says M & S Bank collect 
information including information provided by customers  such as previous names. 
The privacy statement then provides further details about how M & S Bank will use 
the information once its been collected. Ive looked at the section in the privacy 
statement which deals with sharing information with credit reference agencies.
This section makes clear that M & S Bank will use the information provided to it to 
carry out credit and identity checks with credit reference agencies. And, I can 
understand why M & S Bank might need to have details of any previous names used 
by a customer when doing this. It means it can access a full credit history for the 
customer and it can use this information as part of its credit assessment.
I understand what Ms B has told us about how long it is since she used her maiden 
name. But she had provided this information to M & S Bank in her application form. 
So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it used the information to carry out the 
credit search.
Ive then considered whether it was fair and reasonable for M & S Bank to continue to 
share data about Ms Bs maiden name with credit reference agencies after it had 
completed its initial checks. The privacy notice does provide some information about 
this. It says
Well continue to exchange information about you with CRAs (credit 
reference agencies) while you have a relationship with us.
Ms B thinks that M & S Bank shouldnt have continued to share information about her 
maiden name with credit reference agencies.
M & S Bank told us it updates the credit reference agencies with all the information 
its been supplied with  not just some of it. Thats the process it uses. It says its 
mandatory to share all of the information provided by the customer. And, its in line 
with what it says in its privacy statement. So, M & S Bank doesnt think it should 
remove Ms Bs previous surname from the information its recorded at credit 
reference agencies.
The objective of sharing data with credit reference agencies is to ensure that other 
lenders have information about how the customer has managed the account. Its 
important that other lenders have an accurate picture of a customers credit record. 
And that would include a record of any previous credit provided to that customer, 
including any credit provided where the customer used a previous name. So, M & S 
Bank has continued to report the previous surname when it exchanges information 
with credit reference agencies.Ms B hasnt suggested the information M & S has recorded is inaccurate or 
incomplete. It may include more information than Ms B would like it to include but that 
doesnt mean it isnt accurate.
Having thought about what both M & S Bank and Ms B have said Im satisfied M & S 
Bank was able to share the information about Ms Bs maiden name. Shed provided 
that information to M & S Bank and its privacy statement made clear it would share 
this information with credit reference agencies. M & S Bank also recorded the 
information accurately.
Ive then thought about the reasons why Ms B raised objections to this information 
being shared. The information is recorded under the section of her credit report which 
refers to aliases. Ms B thinks this suggests some sort of criminal connotation. She 
also thinks its misogynistic to record this information.
Ive thought about what Ms B has said.
Credit reference agencies use the term alias to mean other names that a person 
may have been known by. That can include a maiden name. But its not limited to 
only that category of other names a person has been known by. So, by way of 
example, it can include a variant of the spelling of a name or instances where 
someone has changed their name or how theyre referred to. And, for that reason, I 
dont agree that Ms B is being treated any differently to anyone else who previously 
used a different name.
The term alias is not a term used by M & S Bank in its application form or in its 
documentation. Its a term used by all credit reference agencies when preparing 
credit reports for consumers. The various guides which credit reference agencies 
provide make clear that when they refer to an alias they mean a name that a 
customer may have previously been known by.
So, although, I accept that the word alias does have other meanings, in the context 
of a credit report I dont think its reasonable to conclude that any of those other 
meanings would apply.
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded M & S Bank did anything 
wrong when it recorded Ms Bs previous name with credit reference agencies. And 
Im not persuaded its caused her any loss or difficulties as a result. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require M & S Bank to 
remove this information.
M & S Bank has paid Ms B £50 by way of compensation for its failure to reply to an 
email she sent it. I think that was fair and reasonable for the poor service she 
experienced. I dont intend to require it to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to require 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc to take any further action to resolve this 
complaint.
Ms B responded to my provisional decision. She thought that the provisional decision was 
wrong, and she provided several reasons why shed said that:
She thought the terms and conditions didnt apply in this instance;She agreed shed given M & S Bank the information about her previous name, but 
she said she hadnt done that in order to have her previous name recorded as an 
alias;
She thought a male person wouldnt have been asked to provide previous names; 
and
She said that once M & S Bank had ascertained there was no adverse information on 
her credit file it shouldve deleted her maiden name.
Ms B also provided an up to date copy of her credit file. She said this showed M & S Bank 
had now complied with her request to remove her name from the credit file.
I asked M & S Bank to comment on what Ms B had said about it having deleted the alias 
from her credit file. M & S Bank checked its records and confirmed that it had not made any 
request to the credit reference agencies to amend the details on her credit file.
So, I need to make a final decision about this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I thought M & S Bank hadnt done 
anything wrong when it asked Ms B to provide her previous name(s) on her application for 
credit. That was not a question which only applied to females  the same question applied to 
all applicants. And, all applicants were required to consider the question and respond. As I 
pointed out, there are circumstances, other than when a woman changes her name on 
marriage, where a person may have previously used a different name. 
Id also explained that where there is a previous name recorded with credit reference 
agencies the practice of credit reference agencies is to record that information under the title 
of alias. And, I was satisfied that, in the context of a credit file report, this didnt cause any 
adverse inference.
Ive also considered what Ms B told us about the change thats been made to her credit file. I 
can see that the credit report shes provided to us is dated December 2020. It shows that 
there are currently no aliases recorded on Ms Bs credit file. It states that Ms B had raised 
a query in December 2019 about an alias recorded by M & S Bank on her credit file. It 
doesnt state how that query was resolved.
Our service asked the credit reference agency about this. It said that no alias had been 
showing on Ms Bs credit file since March 2020. It had no records prior to that date. It said it 
had no record about why the alias was removed. As mentioned above, M & S Bank says it 
didnt remove the information. So, I havent been able to confirm how or why this information 
was removed.
It is the case that the information has been removed. That is the outcome Ms B wanted. But 
it doesnt change my view about what happened here. 
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied M & S Bank acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions when it collected the previous surname and when it 
recorded that information with credit reference agencies. I dont think Ms B suffered any loss 
as a result of that information having been recorded. The information has already been 
removed  albeit its unclear how that happened. But, in any case, I dont require M & S 
Bank to take any further action to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman