DRN-3706275
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of some solar panels.
Mrs A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs A bought solar panels for her home in November 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mrs A says the installer misled her into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs A and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £269.63. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. (The copy I have been provided with is a bit 
faint, but that appears to be because it is a carbon paper copy, and so its likely that the 
original, which Mrs A signed, was clearer.) To the left of that figure it says that the finance 
amount is £6,295, payable over ten years. Those figures are likely to have been discussed 
during the sales meeting, so I am satisfied that Mrs A would have known what they were 
before she signed this document.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mrs A could 
be forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly 
come to £629.50 each year. That is more than twice the stated benefit figure for the first 
year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs A about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman