DRN-3353265
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined his application for
an overdraft.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr G was looking for a new current account as his existing provider was
leaving the current account market. As Halifax was offering a 0% interest on an overdraft for
six months when switching current accounts, Mr G applied for a £500 overdraft. But this was
declined, he said he then asked for a £100 overdraft, and then a £50 overdraft. Both of these
applications were also declined. Mr G complained to Halifax.
Halifax said theyd used internal and external checks to determine whether to accept Mr Gs
overdraft application. And credit checks, which they said wouldnt have shown on Mr Gs
credit file. Based on their checks theyd decided to decline Mr Gs application(s).
Mr G wasnt happy with their response. He said hed savings accounts with Halifax and that
he hadnt missed any payments for any of his credit commitments. He said hed later
opened a current account with another bank whod agreed to a £500 overdraft, but this didnt
have the 0% interest offer. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr G would have been aware that the acceptance of his overdraft
application wasnt guaranteed. And that Halifax had told him theyd declined his application
following the affordability checks theyd done.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed savings accounts with Halifax and hadnt had any previous
issues with being accepted for an overdraft. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an
ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its at the discretion of Halifax as to whether they will offer a credit facility to a customer who
applies for such a facility or not. The Standards of Lending Practice say the customer should
be given the primary reason for the declined application. So, what this service would expect
would be, if a customer is declined for an applied for overdraft facility, the lender would
explain clearly to that customer why their application had been declined.
A lender's main responsibility for all customers is to provide a borrower with a product that is
affordable and meets their needs. So, Id expect Halifax to consider internal and external
risks which could affect Mr Gs ability to repay so that it doesnt lead to unsustainable
borrowing for him. This is usually done by carrying out affordability checks. Theres no set
list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. One of the checks may be a check
with credit reference agencies.
And If the customer's application is declined due to information on their credit report, the
lender needs to direct the borrower to a copy of their credit report, before making any further
applications. Halifax said theyd checked Mr Gs credit file but the nature of their checks
meant these wouldnt have shown on it. But they havent said whether these checks
highlighted any concerns. And if they had Id have expected Halifax to have pointed this out
to Mr G. But Halifax didnt do this. Mr G has sent us a copy of his credit report, which shows
he'd a number of accounts, with a small credit balance of less than £500. There had been
several searches carried out, but Mr G had been checking the market for a new current
account.
Halifax has also said they would consider several factors and told Mr G these would be:
his employment status;
his residential status address;
whether hes kept up with loan or credit card repayments;
how hes managed any previous/existing arranged overdrafts;
the length of time that hes held a current account; and
his current level of borrowing and financial commitments.
Halifax told Mr G:
When we are deciding what level of overdraft lending, we can offer a customer, we will use
both internal and external credit scores to make this decision
But while Mr G was given an understanding of the above considerations Halifax would make
in reaching their decision, I cant see that Mr G was made aware of the primary cause. And
by not knowing the reason for his application being declined this has left Mr G frustrated as
he said he doesnt know of any reasoning for it.
Ive asked Halifax to provide further details of the checks that led to their decision not to lend
to Mr G, so I could see if Mr G could be given any further clarification about the lending
decision reached by them. But due to a technical issue this information isnt available.
As I outlined above its not for me to tell Halifax who they should lend to, that is a commercial
decision they will take. But I do think Mr G should have been given a better understanding of
the primary cause as to why his application was declined. As this wasnt given to him, the
situation has caused him some trouble and upset.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and didnt ask me to consider any further 
comments or evidence.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr G 
£150 for trouble and upset
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman