DRN-3988384
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he purchased under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
In August 2019 Mr C entered into an agreement with VWFS for the purchase of a car costing 
£32,550 from a dealership that it will call A.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr C undertook to make an 
advance payment of £1,000 followed by 47 monthly payments of £541.05 and one final 
payment of £11,053.75 making a total repayable of £37,483.10 at an APR of 5.8%.
In late-2022, and after the engine management light illuminated on the dashboard, Mr C had 
the car inspected by A who identified a number of issues with it.
Mr C believes that VWFS is responsible for the cost of repairing the issues identified by A. 
VWFS, on the other hand, believes it isnt.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that Mr C 
was provided with a car, in August 2019, that was of satisfactory quality and VWFS wasnt 
liable to him for any of his submitted claim for compensation.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome. 
I would also like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mr Cs complaint 
against VWFS, not any complaints he might have against A or the manufacturer.
The agreement in this case is a regulated one. As such, this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement and is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
In this case its not in dispute that the car experienced a number of issues in late 2022 which 
require repair. But that doesnt mean the car, when Mr C purchased it, was of unsatisfactory 
quality or that VWFS is liable to compensate Mr C for the position he now finds himself in.
Mr C, by his own admission, has confirmed to our service that he had over three years of 
fault free motoring and was able to add approximately 80,000 miles to the odometer before 
the issues with the car arose. And because of this I can confirm that I need to make no 
finding on what the odometer reading was when Mr C purchased the car or what services 
were, or werent, undertaken on it.
I can understand that Mr C would have been frustrated that his car experienced a number of 
issues in late 2022. But in the absence of any persuasive evidence from Mr C to the contrary 
(for example an independent inspection report of his own confirming the issues identified in 
late 2022 were present or developing at the time of purchase in August 2019) Im satisfied 
that the only fair and reasonable conclusion that I can reach is that having had possession of 
the car for over three years and having been able to add approximately 80,000 miles to the 
odometer the identified issues in late-2022 are as a result of wear and tear and not as a 
result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality when sold in August 2019.
Given what I say above I can confirm that Im satisfied that VWFS need do nothing further in 
respect of this complaint and this includes standing by its previous offer to pay Mr C, as a 
gesture of goodwill, £750.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman