DRN-4036382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Argentis Financial Management Limited didnt explain how 
income tax will apply to money theyre to receive from a bond held in a discounted gift trust.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S set up the bond and trust following advice from Argentis in 2007. Weve seen 
the recommendation letter Argentis wrote at the time. And weve got copies of the trust deed 
that was completed. The time thats passed seems to mean any other records are now lost.
As part of the trust, Mr and Mrs S received monthly payments. The value of the payments 
was fixed at the outset. Theyre funded by withdrawals from the bond. Each year, the 
payments total 5% of the amount initially invested in the bond. That makes use of a 
tax-deferred allowance that applies to bonds.
Mr and Mrs S complained in 2021. They realised more fully how the tax-deferred allowance 
worked. They now appreciated that by 2027  when the 5% withdrawn from the bond each 
year would total to 100% of what had been initially invested  theyd have to start paying 
income tax on the money they received from the trust. Given Mr and Mrs Ss other income, 
they felt this was likely to be at the higher tax rate.
In response, Argentis said that they werent authorised to give tax advice, and noted the trust 
document had advised Mr and Mrs S to seek legal and taxation advice prior to investing.
Unhappy with that response, Mr and Mrs S came to us. I wrote last time how I intended to 
uphold this complaint. I couldnt see Argentis had explained what would happen with income 
tax if withdrawals reached 100% of the amount initially invested. And I couldnt see theyd 
made it clear they were relying on Mr and Mrs S seeking separate tax advice. 
To put things right, I was minded to have Argentis compensate Mr and Mrs S for the 
unwelcome surprise theyve had now they fully understand what could happen. But the 
uncertainty about exactly what will happen  and how that differs to the way things would 
have been if the service had been better  stopped me from proposing any more action.
Argentis said they would accept that decision. But Mr and Mrs S raised some further points 
they felt supported their position. They said the possibility to set annual withdrawals at less 
than 5% wasnt discussed. And they questioned the advisers motives in recommending this 
investment. They questioned how I could conclude theyd probably have proceeded with the 
bond too, noting they could have gifted the money instead to avoid incurring inheritance tax. 
The case has now returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my previous decision was the right one for this case. So Im 
largely going to repeat what I wrote last time. But Ill add to it in places to show why the 
comments from Mr and Mrs S havent changed my view. 
Key here remains Argentiss 2007 letter to Mr and Mrs S. Its the only indication from the 
time of what Argentis said to Mr and Mrs S prior to the bond and trust being set up.
The letter notes Mr and Mrs S were concerned about Inheritance Tax planning, and 
[were] also mindful that any income extracted from [their] investments should be done in a 
tax efficient manner. It then went on to talk about discounted gift trusts, from the view of 
reducing inheritance tax.
A discounted gift trust met that need better than simply gifting the money. It would have 
provided an immediate inheritance tax benefit without the more standard 7-year wait. And it 
meant Mr and Mrs S still got to have the benefit of the money while they were alive, through 
the withdrawals they received. 
While I can appreciate Argentis arent regulated to give tax or trust advice, tax was a key 
part of the discussion about investments that took place in 2007. For example, page three of 
the letter begins with the title What about tax?, before discussing the inheritance tax 
benefits of the trust that would hold the investment.
So I find providing relevant information about tax and the trust was part of the financial 
activity Argentis are regulated for  providing investment advice. If Argentis were relying on 
Mr and Mrs S seeking other tax or legal advice, that should have been made more explicit in 
the 2007 letter.
The key tax for this complaint wasnt the inheritance tax that the trust sought to manage. It 
was the income tax that would be charged on the bonds gains.
The letter had hints about that. On the first page it talked about tax being payable if the 
regular withdrawals exceed 5% each policy year of the original amount invested But I 
can see how that could be read as saying as long as the withdrawals stayed below 5% each 
year, they could continue forever without paying tax, regardless of the cumulative value.
Thats not how the tax-deferred allowance works. Once the withdrawals total 100% of what 
was invested, the rest will be treated as the investments gain and taxed accordingly.
Looking at Argentiss letter, I provisionally find this part of the tax-deferred allowance isnt 
explained. As theres no evidence of it being explained and drawn to Mr and Mrs Ss 
attention, I accept Mr and Mrs Ss position that it wasnt.
I dont however accept that they werent told the level of withdrawals could be changed. The 
letter mentioned in a few different places that they could choose the level of the withdrawals. 
For example, page two said you must choose the level of income you wish to receive 
once the income level has been chosen, this cannot be altered. Thats a key point of the 
trust here, and its mention in the letter satisfies me Argentis brought it up.
However, given Argentis failed to give Mr and Mrs S full information about how tax would 
apply to their bond, or to say that their advice wasnt going to include information about that 
subject, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
The reasoning behind my remedy remains focussed on thinking about the position Mr and 
Mrs S would have been in if the service had been more reasonable.With a better explanation from Argentis, Mr and Mrs S would have been aware before setting 
up the bond and the trust that income tax could be payable on the bonds gains after 
20 years, if it was set up with withdrawals totalling 5% each year.
Its possible Mr and Mrs S could then have chosen not to make the investment. But I 
consider that unlikely. 
There appears to have been a benefit to trying to reduce their inheritance tax liability without 
completely losing the use of their money for an income. That benefit seems likely to have 
outweighed the potential for a tax liability to be incurred on any gains their assets achieved. 
And doing something else with the money wouldnt necessarily have been free of a tax 
liability on any gains it made.
That leads me away from having Argentis refund any of the fees that arose from their 2007 
advice. The advice generally was reasonable, as it considered Mr and Mrs Ss wishes and 
put forward an investment that went a long way towards meeting them. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs S feel Argentis would have known the income tax could become an issue in 20 years. 
But they were probably also aware that other options for investing the money could attract a 
tax liability at some point. So I can understand why the potential for a tax bill wasnt a major 
factor in their advice. 
Mr and Mrs S could perhaps though have reduced the size of the withdrawals they planned 
to receive from the trust. At 4% for example, the income they received would have been 
reduced but it would have been 25 years before tax had to be paid. But as Ive noted, the 
ability to choose this value was discussed at the time. I dont have any details of their 
circumstances to explain why the 5% level was chosen. So I cant really say if this would 
have been an option for them, had Mr and Mrs S fully appreciated what would happen once 
the full amount invested was withdrawn.
Looking at the position Mr and Mrs S are now in, its worth noting the tax theyre concerned 
about is a possibility, rather than a certainty. They first have to receive the full value thats 
been invested, which cant happen for a few more years yet. 
If Mr and Mrs S dont end up incurring a tax liability, theyll be in the same position theyd 
have been in if the service had been reasonable and theyd taken some steps to avoid it. 
That is, the tax on the investments gains would likely fall on the trust or its beneficiaries to 
pay. Its the comparison to that tax position thats important, if Mr and Mrs S do end up 
paying tax they could otherwise have avoided.
Determining the tax position of the trust or its beneficiaries isnt possible from the details in 
front of me. And even if I could, the uncertainty around whether tax will be payable by Mr 
and Mrs S leads me to conclude that attempting a comparison is unsound.
So Ive decided not to direct Argentis to cover any financial loss for Mr and Mrs S. I cant be 
sure therell be one, or what it would be if there was. 
Instead, I find that the impact Argentis should remedy here is the unwelcome surprise Mr 
and Mrs S have experienced. And they should acknowledge the uncertainty that now exists 
about whether things could have been done better in 2007.
A compensation payment will acknowledge those impacts. In line with our current published 
approach, Ive decided a payment of £600 from Argentis to Mr and Mrs S is suitable. That 
factors in that the issue here has left Mr and Mrs S feeling theyve overpaid Argentis for their 
work. And that the tax here may still have arisen for either Mr and Mrs S or the trust or its 
beneficiaries at some point, even with a reasonable level of service provided.My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Argentis Financial Management 
Limited. I direct they pay Mr and Mrs S £600 compensation to acknowledge the emotional 
impact caused for them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman