DRN-3967483
The complaint
Mr P has complained that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) has refused a request to 
extend his mortgage term.
To settle the complaint Mr P wants TMB to extend the mortgage term and to offer him a new 
fixed interest rate product.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr P being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
TMB is a closed book lender, so doesnt offer new products to mortgage customers. Any 
new products or interest rates are offered to existing TMB customers through another lender 
in the same banking group as TMB. For the sake of clarity, I will refer to TMB throughout this 
decision.
Mr P has an interest-only mortgage with TMB. The mortgage term will come to an end in 
June 2023 when the capital balance of approximately £154,000 is due to be repaid. Mr Ps 
mortgage was until recently on a fixed rate product from another bank in the same group as 
TMB, but the mortgage remains with TMB. The fixed rate product has come to an end and 
the mortgage is now on a Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
In late 2021 Mr P discussed extending his mortgage term with TMB, but because a term 
extension would go beyond TMBs upper lending age limit of 70 years, it wasnt able to 
agree to this. As an exception, TMB looked at whether extending the term to 75 years would 
be possible. This would have to be on a capital repayment basis, which the bank decided 
wasnt affordable, even if Mr P didnt have unsecured debt (he owed £28,900 for which he 
was paying £1,215 per month) in addition to the mortgage.
Mr P complained, saying this was discriminatory and unfair. Mr P disputed that affordability 
was an issue and said he could easily afford the mortgage beyond the age of 70. Mr P was 
also unhappy that he hadnt been able to switch to a new interest rate product, due to the 
length of time left on the mortgage term. Mr P said hed been told hed be able to do this.
TMB didnt uphold the complaint, although it paid Mr P £25 because Mr P believed hed 
been given incorrect information about a product transfer, and because he had taken offence 
at TMB using the term pre-arrears during a telephone conversation. Mr P escalated his 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think TMB 
had treated Mr P unfairly. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes reiterated his previous points about affordability and ageism.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
New interest rate product:  Ive reviewed TMBs internal notes which show that Mr P was 
on a fixed rate from March 2020, which expired in 2022. Because there was less than a year 
left on the mortgage term, TMB wasnt able to offer a new product, as the minimum term for 
a fixed rate is two years. There is nothing in the notes to show that Mr P was told he could 
apply for a new product when his existing one expired. Im therefore not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
Term extension: Based on what Ive seen, I dont think TMB treated Mr P unfairly when 
declining the term extension.
Ive noted what Mr P has said about the Equality Act 2010 (the Act). However, its not our 
role to say whether TMB has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the courts. Our role 
is to decide whats fair and reasonable. In order to decide that we have to take a number of 
things into consideration, including relevant law and what we consider to be good industry 
practice. So although it would be for a court to say whether or not TMB breached the Act, Im 
required to take the law into account, if its relevant, amongst other factors, when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this particular complaint.
I understand why Mr P feels hes been discriminated against due to his age. Hes been told 
that the mortgage term cant be extended beyond 70 years of age due to lending criteria. But 
Mr P doesnt think TMB has taken his individual circumstances into account, including his 
contention that the mortgage would be affordable if the term was extended by another five 
years.
The Act contains an exemption for financial services providers, who are allowed to make 
decisions based on age, provided the risk has been properly assessed. Details of the data 
TMB has used in any risk assessment is likely to be commercially sensitive information that 
would not be shared directly with the public. If I thought it necessary, this is something I 
could ask TMB to provide, if I felt it relevant to the facts of the case. But in this case Im not 
persuaded it is relevant, for the following reasons.
The starting point here is that when Mr P took out the mortgage he agreed to repay the 
outstanding balance at the end of the term, which is in a few months time. Those terms are 
clear from the mortgage documentation and the annual statements. In particular, the annual 
statements make it clear that Mr P must have arrangements in place to repay the capital at 
the end of the mortgage term. Its therefore not unreasonable for TMB to expect the loan to 
be repaid as agreed.
TMB isnt under any obligation to agree to a term extension in any circumstances, regardless 
of the customers age. That said, it must give fair and reasonable consideration to a request 
to extend the term. 
Mr P hasnt explained what his repayment strategy is for this interest-only mortgage. Hes 
told TMB that he doesnt want to move from the property, so it doesnt look as if his plan is to 
sell it to pay off the mortgage. Mr P owns a rental property outright, but it seems that the rent 
from this is used to supplement his income. Mr P doesnt have a private pension, and hes 
not disclosed any savings, endowment policies or other investments. 
Therefore, even if the upper age limit was waived (and TMB isnt under any obligation to do 
this), extending the mortgage for another five years on an interest-only basis would mean that at the end of the term, when Mr P would be 75 years old, hed have to find a lump sum 
to pay off any remaining balance of the mortgage, even if he has made some overpayments 
over the five years. That would not, in my opinion, be in his best interests.
As an exception, TMB considered whether a five-year term extension on a capital repayment 
basis would be possible, but it the bank decided this wasnt affordable. Ive done my own 
calculations, based on a five-year fixed interest rate of 4.09% (which appears to be the 
lowest rate that might be available to Mr P if a five-year term extension on a repayment basis 
was agreed, assuming a loan-to-value ratio of under 60%). This would require monthly 
repayments of £2,842 in order to repay £154,000. Mr Ps income, on the figures he provided 
to TMB, is about £2,600. Given this, a term extension on a repayment basis is unaffordable.
Conclusion: In all the circumstances, I dont think TMB has acted unfairly by declining to 
extend the mortgage term on an interest-only basis. It is outside TMBs upper age limit, and, 
more importantly, Mr P doesnt appear to have a repayment vehicle for the mortgage. Im 
also satisfied that a five-year term extension on a capital repayment basis is unaffordable. I 
am therefore unable to find that TMB has done anything wrong, or that it has treated Mr P 
unfairly.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. I appreciate that the end of the mortgage 
term is approaching, and Mr P will now need to think carefully about how he is going to 
repay the mortgage. There are lenders that offer Retirement Interest Only (RIO) mortgages, 
or equity release mortgages. I think it might help Mr P to discuss his options with a financial 
adviser so that he can put a repayment plan in place. Mr P can find details of financial 
advisers from the Financial Conduct Authority website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman