DRN-3163125
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr W had two loans from Lending Stream as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 9 Apr 2019 £300 165d £93.76 20 Sep 2019 19 Apr 2019
2 6 May 2019 £480 173d £191.15 25 Oct 2019 Outstanding
Mr W says that if Lending Stream had fully checked his circumstances at the time of the 
lending, it would have seen he was a compulsive gambler. He says the lending worsened his 
financial situation and affected his mental health. Mr W adds that he feels pressured into 
making payments that he is unable to make and has been contacted multiple times by the 
debt collection department.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr W about his income and expenditure and checked his 
credit file. It says it compared the figures with statistical averages and adjusted them if 
required. Lending Stream says the checks showed Mr W had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the repayments, but it offered to set up an affordable payment arrangement for the 
outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Mr W was struggling to manage his money. 
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that he did not fully agree with the adjudicators view. 
He said Lending Stream was still chasing him for the money and it was being unreasonable 
about setting up an affordable repayment plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Loan 1
When Mr W applied for the first loan with Lending Stream, I can see it asked him about his 
income and expenditure. Mr W said his monthly income was £1,100, with expenditure of 
£670. Im satisfied, in the circumstances of the lending, that these checks were 
proportionate. I say that because:
This was Mr Ws first loan with Lending Stream;
The monthly repayment due was only around 8.5% of Mr Ws declared income;
Mr W said he had no other credit expenditure;
Lending Streams credit check showed Mr W had three defaults on his account, but 
the most recent of these was 19 months earlier;
Lending Stream calculated his disposable income to be £430 per month, indicating 
the repayments were affordable.
At this stage in the lending I consider Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Mr W as there was nothing to indicate his financial circumstances were 
significantly different. I acknowledge Mr W had defaults on his credit file, but there was no 
evidence of recent financial difficulties. So I cant conclude Lending Stream was wrong to 
have approved loan 1.
Loan 2Mr Ws circumstances remained largely the same when Lending Stream asked him about his 
income and expenditure for loan 2. It calculated his disposable income to be £753 and the 
new repayment was £191.15. Mr W had also settled loan 1 early.
Lending Streams new credit check showed only one of the defaults was within the last three 
years so I dont find it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to carry out further 
checks.
I accept Mr W says he was a compulsive gambler at the time of the lending and I have seen 
a letter from a support service that confirms this. However, I dont consider it would have 
been proportionate for Lending Stream to carry out the level of financial review that would 
have been required to show this spending.
So, Im satisfied Lending Stream would have considered loan 2 to be affordable and that 
there was nothing to indicate Mr W was in financial difficulties.
Finally, I understand loan 2 has now been moved to Collections. Lending Stream still has an 
obligation to treat Mr W fairly if he is having difficulty repaying the loan.
In summary, I find that Lending Streams checks were proportionate and that there was 
nothing in the available information to indicate that Lending Stream acted irresponsibly by 
approving either loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman