DRN-4185301
The complaint
Mr B complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) didnt fairly settle his claim under his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his policy following a motor accident. Covea reviewed the claim and 
deemed the car beyond economic repair, so offered Mr B a cash settlement.
Mr B rejected the settlement as he thought it was below market value. He said his car was 
rare, in immaculate condition and with low mileage. Hed insured his car for £6,000, so he 
expected Covea to pay this value as a settlement.
Covea said in the event that your vehicle is found beyond economical repair, the maximum 
amount payable will be the market value of the insured vehicle. Its engineer used industry -
recognised guide publications to assess the market value of the vehicle and offered Mr B a 
settlement in line with the highest market benchmark.
Mr B thinks this is unfair as hes found other vehicles like his that are advertised at a higher 
price. He doesnt think he could purchase a similar car for what he has been offered from 
Covea. He doesnt think its fair hes paid premiums based upon a valuation of £6,000, if 
Covea wont honour that in his settlement.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She checked Coveas market valuation 
for the vehicle against prices shown online for the motor trade and thought the settlement 
offered was fair. Mr B disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B has an expectation when he took out his cover with Covea that any 
settlement would be aligned to the value he estimated for his car. However, Im going to 
disappoint Mr B, as I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy sets out that when the damaged car is beyond economic repair then Coveas 
liability is to pay out the market value for the car. Mr B estimated the value of the car as 
£6,000 as this is what he paid for the car five years previously. Covea will use a range of 
information from a policyholder when setting its premiums  such as type of car, age, 
security of the vehicle, risk of theft at the address, driver record etc.
The estimated value of the vehicle is just one of the parameters Covea will consider. Its 
liability, however, is what is stated in the policy. It is the responsibility of Mr B to provide 
accurate details and Covea isnt obligated to check whether these are correct  most 
insurers wont check a policyholders details until a claim is made. This is part of how 
insurers reduce administration costs which is a benefit that is passed on to consumers in 
lower premiums. 
Mr B said his car had gone up in value  however, I dont find this logical as most cars will 
drop in price over time. I appreciate prices for second-hand cars were higher during the 
Covid-19 pandemic due to an imbalance between supply and demand. However, this 
anomaly has since reversed. So, Id expect Mr Bs car to be worth less than what he bought 
it for five years earlier. Mr B said his car was rare, but I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest his car was a classic that was in demand, so Im not persuaded the economics of 
this car would buck the normal trend.
Covea has shared the research it has done of the industry wide publication guides that are 
available for cars like Mr Bs vehicle. These guides are the same our service uses to check 
market rates for cars and are based on real data of sold cars. Covea has followed the 
process that Id expect. I think it has been reasonable as it has offered the highest of three 
benchmarks it was able to retrieve. I appreciate Mr B has provided details of higher prices 
from a trade magazine where cars are advertised. However, Im not persuaded by this, as it 
doesnt provide the actual price the cars were sold for. Thats why our service thinks the 
industry wide publication guides are more reliable.
Therefore, as I think Covea has been reasonable in its approach and provided a fair 
settlement offer, I dont uphold this complaint. Covea should pay Mr B the settlement it 
offered.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Covea Insurance plc 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman