DRN-4295398
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt process her ISA transfer in a timely manner.
Ms Ws complaint is brought to this service by her authorised representative, Mr J.
What happened
Mr J, who holds power of attorney for Ms W, instructed Lloyds to process an ISA transfer for 
Ms W in November 2022. But Lloyds didnt process the ISA transfer as instructed, so Mr J 
raised a complaint on Ms Ws behalf. And, when Lloyds didnt respond to that complaint, he 
referred it to this service. 
Lloyds responded to Mr J in March 2023. At that time, the ISA transfer still hadnt been 
processed. Lloyds apologised to Mr J for this and promised to complete the transfer within 
15 days. Lloyds also confirmed that they would top-up Ms Ws ISA balance with the interest 
it should have received, had the ISA transfer been completed when it first should have been. 
And Lloyds also made a further payment of £100 as compensation for any inconvenience 
and upset Mr J may have incurred. Mr J wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he asked 
this service to continue considering Ms Ws complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Lloyds did complete the 
ISA transfer within 15-days of sending the complaint response to Mr J, as theyd promised 
to. And our investigator also noted that Lloyds had paid an amount to Ms Ws ISA equal to 
the interest she should have received had the transfer been processed correctly. Because of 
this, our investigator felt that Lloyds had already taken the corrective action needed to 
restore Ms Ws ISA account to the position it should fairly be in. 
Additionally, our investigator noted that this service cant award compensation for upset or 
inconvenience to a representative of a complainant. And while they acknowledged that Mr J 
had spent time and effort trying to resolve this matter, this meant that they were unable to 
recommend that Lloyds should pay Mr J any further compensation for that time and effort. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and felt 
that this service not being able to award compensation to him as a representative of Ms W 
was discriminatory. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business accepts that it made a mistake, as Lloyds do here, this service looks to 
confirm whether the business has taken the corrective action necessary to return their 
affected customer to the position they should be in, had the error never occurred. 
I think that Lloyds have done that here. I say this because, when Lloyds did process the ISA 
transfer, they credited Ms Ws account with the interest she should have received, had the 
ISA transfer been processed by them when it first should have been. As such, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds have put Ms Ws ISA account into the position it should be in, had the ISA 
transfer taken place when first instructed. And this means that I dont feel that theres any 
further corrective action that I can fairly consider instructing Lloyds to make. 
Im aware that Mr J would like this service to award him compensation for the time and effort 
hed had to expend chasing Lloyds to resolve this matter. However, while I dont doubt that 
Mr J has been upset and inconvenienced by whats happened here, Im unable to instruct 
Lloyds to pay him any compensation as he would like.
This is because the rules by which this service must abide, as per the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook only allow this service 
to award compensation to an eligible complainant. But Mr J isnt the eligible complainant in 
this instance  Ms W is. And while Mr J is permitted to act as an authorised representative of 
Ms W by virtue of his status as power of attorney for her, this doesnt allow this service to 
instruct Lloyds to pay compensation to him, as per the DISP rules.
It also must be noted that this service hasnt declined to consider Ms Ws complaint. And I 
can confirm that if Lloyds hadnt taken the requisite corrective action here, as Ive previously 
described, that I would, in all likelihood, have instructed Lloyds to take that corrective action. 
Accordingly, given that Im satisfied that Lloyds dont need to take any further corrective 
action here, and given that Im unable to award any compensation to Mr J, it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint  because there are no further instructions to Lloyds for 
me to give. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman