DRN-3465206
The complaint
Mr N has complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) have unfairly declined the claim for repairs 
to his car under his mechanical breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N took out a mechanical breakdown insurance policy with AWP in August 2021. In 
November 2021, he noticed a slight juddering from his car when he applied the brakes, so 
he took his car to a repair garage to have the issue investigated. 
The investigation found mud compacted around the drive shaft and suggested it might have 
caused the drive shaft to fail. The technician also concluded that the drive shaft had heated 
up and caused the front nearside brake disc to warp. As a result, the drive shaft, brakes and 
discs needed to be replaced. 
Mr N was informed by the dealer that AWP declined the claim on the basis that the damage 
was caused by mud. Mr N asked the dealer to explain how such damage could have 
occurred. He recalled the dealer saying it wasnt something theyd seen before and theyd 
agreed to significantly reduce the repair costs as a result.
After receiving a complaint from Mr N about their decision to decline his claim, AWP issued 
their final response letter not upholding his complaint on 31 December 2021. In summary, 
they said that theyd received a video from the repair garage which confirmed the drive shaft 
hadnt been damaged by a defect, but rather, it had been damaged by a build-up of mud. 
They also said the garage concluded the vehicle was likely used-off road, which caused the 
build-up of mud. In addition, AWP advised that third party software had been installed onto 
the vehicle which had been modified outside of BMW recommendations. They also 
concluded that, as the alloy wheels werent approved by BMW UK, the replacement of the 
alloy wheel also wouldnt be covered by the warranty.
In responding to the final response letter, Mr N told AWP that the car had not been driven 
off-road. He suggested that if it had, he would expect there to be damage to the underside of 
the car, such as scratches to the under tray. Mr N also asked AWP to assess his claim for 
the alloy wheel from when it had originally cracked and he requested they provide him with 
their evidence to support their conclusion that his car had been driven off-road. AWP didnt 
reply to those requests made by Mr N.
Unhappy with their final response, Mr N brought his complaint to our service. He told us that 
his normal driving does involve a lot of country lanes, but those are public roads and are not 
off-road. Mr N also explained that he had an off-road car, which he could use if he wanted to 
drive off-road. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and, on 21 April 2022, issued her view 
upholding the complaint. In summary, she explained that AWP had unfairly declined Mr Ns 
claim in relation to the drive shaft because they hadnt provided sufficient evidence to 
persuade her that the off-road exclusion had been fairly applied. Our investigator also 
explained why she didnt think the exclusion regarding the installation of software was 
relevant, and she concluded that the alloy wheel wouldnt be covered by the warranty.
With regard to the impact of AWPs actions on Mr N, our investigator explained that he was 
moving to a new house at the time the car was being repaired, and having to spend his 
money, at that time, on repairs that should have been covered by the warranty, rather than 
on moving house, caused him stress. 
AWP didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint. Their response to the view was: we do believe the video from the [repair garage] 
supports the reason why the claim was declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy covers him for the costs of repairing or replacing the covered components 
below that have suffered electrical or mechanical failure during the period of insurance.
As Mr N had comprehensive cover, the policy provided cover for all factory fitted 
mechanical and electrical components of the vehicle, with some exceptions listed alongside. 
These included brake and clutch facings, discs and drums, and wheels and tyres, among 
other things. The components that Mr N has claimed for under the warranty include the drive 
shaft and the brake components that were damaged as a result of the fault with the drive 
shaft. Although brake and clutch facings, discs and drums are excluded from the list, in 
these circumstances, where theyve been damaged as a result of a faulty component, I think 
its fair that the costs of repairing or replacing those, should also be covered. However, as 
our investigator mentioned in her view, replacement of the allow wheel wouldnt be covered 
by the warranty.
Electrical or mechanical failure is defined in the policy as: the sudden and unexpected 
failure of a component which is covered by the warranty section of this insurance and which 
needs immediate repair or replacement. Mr N took his car to the garage because it was 
juddering when he applied the brakes. Upon investigating the issue, the repair garage was of 
the view that the drive shaft and brakes needed immediate repair and / or replacement for 
the vehicle to be able to be driven properly again. So, Im satisfied the parts are covered by 
the warranty and meet the requirement of the policy for a sudden and unexpected 
mechanical failure to have occurred.
However, AWP have sought to apply the off-road exclusion to decline Mr Ns claim. This 
exclusion is detailed on page 20 of the policy terms and conditions. Under the heading, 
What must I do to keep the warranty valid? it says, under paragraph 6, This warranty will 
not cover the followingan insured vehicle used for courier or private hire services, 
track days, off road use, competitions or racing of any kind.
In seeking to apply this exclusion to decline an otherwise valid claim, AWP need to provide 
evidence that supports the application of that exclusion to the claim. In this case, AWP have 
solely relied on the two-minute video provided by the repair garage, when the technician was 
carrying out a courtesy vehicle check for Mr N. Between approximately 30 seconds into the 
video to one minute and three seconds, the technician said: 
When raised the vehicle in the air I found that there was a lot of mud compact around your 
drive shaft here. Ive cleared most of it out and removed your undertrays but as you can see 
from the floor there was a serious amount of mud, compact all around your sub-frame this 
has actually damaged the CV boot and mud has entered it I would advise replacing the whole drive shaft as this will have worn away the gears inside of there.
Then approximately two minutes into the video, the technician said: 
I do not believe it was the brakes that were at fault, I believe it was the amount of mud that 
came out of the vehicle compressing on the drive shaft.
Ive carefully considered the video to decide whether I think it provides persuasive evidence 
to show that Mr N drove his car off-road, which caused the damage to the car that hes 
claimed for. And having done so, Im not persuaded. The technician speculated that the mud
may have caused the damage and showed a large deposit of mud on the floor of the garage 
in support of that. However, Mr N offered a plausible explanation for this when he told AWP 
that because of where he lives, he frequently drives along (public) country lanes. He also 
challenged AWPs conclusion that the presence of that amount of mud indicated the car had 
been driven off road, as there appeared to be no corroborating evidence for that, such as 
scratches underneath the car. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not 
happened. While I accept one possible explanation for the quantity of mud found on the 
undercarriage of Mr Ns car, could be that the car had been driven off-road, Im not 
persuaded that that explanation is more likely than not, the cause of the damage. Mr N has 
provided an equally plausible explanation. For AWP to persuade me that the exclusion has 
been fairly applied, I need to be satisfied that their evidence shows its more likely than not. 
I note that in addition to the video there are a couple of other comments included in the 
handwritten notes added by the garage to their three-page report, and in the case history 
notes AWP have provided. However, even taking account of that evidence together with the 
video, I dont agree that AWP have provided sufficient evidence to show that the damage to 
the car had likely been caused by Mr N driving his car off-road. So, my decision is that Im 
upholding Mr Ns complaint. 
As AWP unfairly declined Mr Ns claim, they should pay him the amount he paid the repair 
garage for the repairs to the drive shaft and brakes subject to deducting any excess payable 
under the policy. Also, as Mr N has not had use of that money, AWP should pay 8% interest 
simple per year to the amount from the date Mr N paid it (17 November 2021) to the date the 
awards detailed below are paid to Mr N. (The total sum Mr N paid to the garage for repairs to 
his car was £2,750.35. After deducting the £730.63 attributable to the replacement of the 
wheel, that gives a balance of £2,019.72 that AWP must reimburse to Mr N).
Ive next considered the impact AWPs actions have had on Mr N. Having done so, Im of the 
view that the lack of care taken in considering Mr Ns claim, and the poor customer service 
hes received from AWP have clearly caused him distress and inconvenience. When he 
purchased the vehicle, the apple play software had already been installed in the car and 
Mr N specifically clarified with the dealer that no non-BMW approved software had been put 
in the car. Without checking this, AWP alleged that Mr N had acted outside of the policy 
terms in modifying the car; and they put that forward as a reason in support of their decision 
to decline his claim. AWP also alleged that Mr N had used his vehicle in breach of the terms 
of the policy by driving it off-road, also without any persuasive evidence to support that 
allegation. Mr N also told us that he was moving to a new house around the time that his 
claim was declined, and he was unable to use the money spent on the repairs, to help with 
his move, which caused him additional stress. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Mr N has been caused distress and 
inconvenience by AWP, as a result of the way theyve handled his claim, which he should be compensated for. So, Im awarding Mr N £200 compensation for that distress and 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr N:
the sum of £2,019.72 that Mr N paid the repair garage for the repairs (less any 
applicable excess); 
8% interest simple per year on that sum, from the date Mr N paid for the repairs 
(17 November 2021) to the date these awards are paid to Mr Ni; and 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of 
the way AWP P&C SA have handled his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay the awards 
detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman
i If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate