DRN-3248671
The complaint
 Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise.
What happened
 Mr K noticed a payment leaving his account to merchant Ill refer to as D. The merchant was
based abroad and supplied health supplements. Mr K has said that he hadnt ordered
anything from D and contacted Lloyds about it. Lloyds made a temporary credit to Mr K while
they looked into the issue. Lloyds used a chargeback to find out about the payment from
the merchant. The chargeback process is run by the payment scheme responsible for
processing the payment. It requires the merchants bank to supply information from the
merchant about the payment in order to defend the transaction.
D defended the payment and sent information back to Lloyds about the transaction. The
evidence they sent was considered by Lloyds and they thought it was sufficient to hold Mr K
responsible for the transaction. The information included the name/address/email address/
phone number for Mr K and used his debit card number with the expiry date. The payment
details were authenticated using a match to Mr Ks home address  called an AVS match but
didnt include the three-digit security number (CVV) from the card.
Mr K explained that hed had a previous disputed transaction with another merchant and
thought that this was where D had obtained his details from because they were a linked
business. In their chargeback response, D referred to this previous transaction as evidence
that Mr K was responsible for the current payment because he hadnt disputed it at the time.
Lloyds records showed that Mr K had disputed it and received a refund.
D also stated that the items they said Mr K had ordered had been delivered , but the
evidence they included didnt show any details about the delivery, only a reference to a
postal service and a tracking number. D also referred to an IP address match  this is a
system that identifies physical locations for internet-based transactions.
Mr K made a complaint about this to Lloyds and they wrote to him and set out the evidence
theyd relied on, which was that the transaction had Mr Ks home address for the delivery of
the items, that it was shipped to that address and that the IP address for the disputed
transaction matched records held by Lloyds for online banking activity carried out by Mr K.
The temporary credit was taken back from Mr Ks account.
Mr K was unhappy with being held responsible for the transaction and brought his complaint
to our service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
He thought that Lloyds had enough information to hold Mr K responsible for the transaction,
including the use of the IP address and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K disagreed with the outcome and maintained that he hadnt made the transaction. Mr K
commented that hed tried to order an item some months before this disputed transaction.
But the item wasnt delivered, and he thought the merchant may have been connected to the
current disputed transaction. He confirmed hed raised the transaction with Lloyds at that
time and received a refund.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr K liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Lloyds have supplied evidence that
shows Mr Ks debit card details were used to make the payment and Im satisfied the
evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Lloyds and Mr K agreed to operate the account to allow
Lloyds to make payments on Mr Ks behalf. For example, Lloydss terms and conditions set
out that if a payment is arranged through the use of a device ( Mr Ks debit card), then
Lloyds accept that the instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder.
So, because Mr Ks debit card details and matching address were entered, Im satisfied that
consent was given, and the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions
where it wouldnt be appropriate for Lloyds to hold Mr K responsible, for example if his card
details were used without his permission.
Mr K has pointed out that hed previously made a purchase to a merchant with a different
name (to D), for an item that wasnt delivered, and hed received a refund from Lloyds about
this. Lloyds own records show that a refund was made to Mr K, but they dont have any
further details about the transaction. D referred to this transaction in their evidence for the
current chargeback and described it as undisputed  so I think it likely that the previous
transaction Mr K referred to is connected to D, although their description is misleading
because it was successfully disputed by Mr K.
D also claimed in their chargeback response that the IP address matched, and Lloyds relied
on this in part to deny Mr K a refund. But, the only IP address data supplied by D refers to
the previous transaction that Mr K said hed had problems with. There was no IP address
data for this disputed transaction. If the current transaction had recorded IP address data,
then I would have been less convinced the transaction was unauthorised  thats because
this type of data is usually automatically recorded and because it wasnt, I think its less likely
the transaction was an authentic one carried out by Mr K.
The information that D relied on to defend their case was essentially the same information
theyd obtained when Mr K had previously tried to order a product from the other merchant,
so its no surprise that they had recorded the personal details about Mr K, including his debit
card. I noted that the CVV wasnt entered when this transaction was put through Lloyds
system, and whilst some transactions can be successful without its use, that usually
happens when theres already an arrangement with the merchant in place, which wasnt the
case here. Lloyds records show that there was an AVS match, and because D already had
this information from the previous transaction, its not surprising that it matched.
Lloyds told Mr K , in their final response letter, that they were satisfied the item had been
shipped and that the merchant had the correct address. As Ive explained, the presence of
the address is no surprise, but the evidence presented by D of the shipment is a tracking
number and the name of a postal service. The tracking number doesnt seem to be
recognised and theres no evidence that the item was delivered. As this was coming from a
third country, it would have been required to have additional checks and paperwork when itentered the country, so I would have thought there would have been some evidence of this
journey, but that wasnt provided by D.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the evidence presented by D shows that Mr K
was more likely than not responsible for authorising this transaction and the information
Lloyds relied on was misinterpreted  there was no matching IP address data and no
evidence the items were shipped beyond the tracking number which couldnt be identified.
Theres a plausible explanation for how D obtained the information about Mr K and Ds own
evidence was misleading.
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and my intention is to instruct Lloyds to refund
Mr K the cost of the disputed transaction, add 8% simple interest from the date of the redebit
to the date its settled and pay Mr K £75 for the worry and unnecessary inconvenience.
I invited Mr K and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Both Lloyds and Mr K accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
In order to put Mr K back into the position he was prior to this transaction, Ill be instructing  
Lloyds to refund Mr K the cost of the disputed transaction, add 8% simple interest from the 
date of the redebit to the date its settled. Also, to pay Mr K £75 for the worry and 
unnecessary inconvenience caused.
My final decision
 My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc, who are instructed to:
Refund £46.79 to Mr K and add 8% simple interest from the date of the redebit to the 
date its settled. If Lloyds considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £75 for the worry and inconvenience caused to Mr K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman