DRN-3996759
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system including voltage optimiser (the system). 
What happened
In September 2015, Mr H bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over 180 years. 
In September 2021, Mr H engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent 
Shawbrook a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system, breached its 
contract with Mr H, and that Mr Hs relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on her because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used. 
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Mr H also mentioned in his witness statement that he would make around £28,835 from the 
system, making it an exceptional investment. He says he missed out on a government 
grant, which the CMC has said was the feed-in tariff (FIT) payments, which Mr H hasnt 
received. We asked for evidence to confirm he wasnt registered for FIT payments, but 
nothing was provided. 
Shawbrook did not uphold the claim because the CMC didnt respond to its request for 
further information. The CMC then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
about this. Our adjudicator considered the matter and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The CMC disagreed but provided nothing further to be considered.
Because the adjudicator has been unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote 
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr H during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
him at that time and Mr H has said he was specifically made aware of the figure of the total 
benefit over 20 years which is shown in the quote. So, I think the quote provides important 
evidence of what was likely discussed before Mr H agreed to the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £9,400.00. However, the overall cost to Mr H was more, due to him paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 180 payments of £100.44 
per month. This was £1.06 per month less than the actual amount on the credit agreement. 
But I think Mr H wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much the loan would cost 
per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 180 monthly 
payments of £102.10. It shows the total amount payable would be £18,378.00. So, I think 
that the monthly and total overall cost that Mr H would pay for the system was made clear to 
him when he agreed to buy it.
Allegation  the voltage optimizer saving contradicts reports available at the time of sale and 
was beyond the range of reasonableness
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mr Hs home and how he used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 55% self-consumption rate 
that was used  
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 55%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr H could use herself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how he used electricity.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance. 
I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when 
the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-consumption rate was 
unreasonable.
The electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable assumptions about 
the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-consumption rate. So, I dont 
think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the 
savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. 
The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond 
Ps control. The quote also included the following clarification in the section about electricity 
bill savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed, nor do I think they were a 
contractual term.
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in one of the 
documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr H 
knew what he was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on the 
credit agreement. So, he could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding to buy 
the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration 
of the benefits of the system. It showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments during the loan term. 
The estimated performance table also showed it would be about 15 years before the 
overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
Allegation - the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated
The CMC has pointed to up to 30% of cases it had seen against P where the inflation data 
used did not match the underlying inflation data it referred to. This does not strike me as a 
systemic issue which would lead me to think that P misled customers in every case. It appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or deliberately 
done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being used  thereby 
making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been the case if no 
error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, not more.
In this case there is no suggestion that the inflation figures did not match the underlying data 
referred to in the quote. So, there was no detriment to Mr H in this case. And the quote 
warned that inflation may be higher or lower than the rate used. 
I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I dont think 
it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has not 
matched Ps assumption.
Allegation  Mr H didnt register for FIT payments because P told him he had missed the 
deadline
The quote makes it clear that P will provide the partially completed FIT application forms, but 
it was Mr Hs responsibility to complete and submit them to apply for the FIT payments. 
There is not enough evidence here for me to conclude that P was at fault for Mr H not 
making the application. The FIT scheme closed to new applicants in 2019, so he had plenty 
of time to apply. 
Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Mr H. I 
think the information provided to Mr H before he agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 20 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr H before he agreed to the purchase.
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mr H due to the way P sold the system to her.
As such I do not think that Shawbrook acted unfairly when declining Mr Hs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman