DRN-3221681
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line has 
handled a claim under his motor insurance policy following an accident. 
What happened
Mr B was in an accident on a motorway when his car was hit by a foreign lorry. The lorry 
driver stopped his lorry and Mr B has said he apologised. Mr B contacted UKI and said he 
wanted to claim under his policy. However, he didnt want to have his car repaired and for 
UKI to pay out for this until the insurer of the lorry had admitted liability. As I understand it, 
this was because he didnt want to pay his excess up front. 
Soon after contacting UKI, Mr B told them hed checked with Highways England whether 
there was any camera footage of the accident and theyd told him the traffic cameras were 
switched off at the time. Mr B later called the company who makes the cameras and found 
out the cameras would have been switched on and recording. 
Mr B was unhappy with the progress on the claim and complained to UKI. He mentioned that 
the traffic cameras would have been on. UKI agreed to look into Mr Bs complaint and 
contact Highways England to see if they could obtain any camera footage. Highways 
England told them that the cameras would have been on, but the footage from them had 
since been deleted. 
UKI also investigated Mr Bs complaint and established that his claim had not been 
progressed as quickly as it could have been due to an error by one of their claims agents. 
They didnt think this would affect the outcome of the claim, but they did accept they had 
provided poor customer service and eventually paid Mr B £140 in compensation for this. 
Mr B ask us to consider a complaint about UKI. He said that they should have realised what 
Highways England had said to him about the camera footage wasnt true. And that they 
should have contacted Highways England at the outset to obtain this. He thinks their failure 
to do so could affect the outcome of his claim. Hes explained that he would like his no claim 
discount reinstated and his excess refunded.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. 
This was because she didnt think UKI had done anything wrong in not contacting Highways 
England about the camera footage, having been told by Mr B that theyd told him they were 
turned off. She acknowledged that UKI had accepted theyd provided a poor service on other 
aspects and explained that she felt what they had paid in compensation was fair. 
Mr B doesnt agree with our investigators view on his complaint and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He still thinks UKI should have checked with Highways England at 
the outset about the camera footage. And he thinks if theyd done so, his claim would be 
most likely be classed as non-fault and hed be able to get his car repaired knowing hed get 
his NCD reinstated and his excess back.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that UKI didnt check with Highways England about the 
traffic camera footage. But, I agree with our investigator that they acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr B thinks that as an insurer, UKI should have realised the 
cameras would not have been switched off and the footage would be available. However, 
Ive not seen any compelling evidence which suggests UKI would have known this. In fact 
theyve told us that they understand not all cameras record footage. So, I presume when 
they were told the cameras were switched off they just assumed Highways England meant 
they had no recorded footage. So, I think it was reasonable for UKI to take the decision not 
to check this out with Highways England, because they had no reason to believe what Mr B 
had been told was incorrect. 
Under the terms of Mr Bs policy he has to pay the excess up front if he makes a claim for 
damage to his car and UKI pay out for it to be repaired. And his NCD is reduced until such 
time as it has been established the incident giving rise to the damage was not his fault or he 
withdraws his claim for his car. That is, he says he does not want to claim for the damage to 
his car. And even if Mr B decides to withdraw his claim for his car, for his NCD to be 
reinstated it has to be clear that the third partys insurer is not pursuing a claim against Mr 
Bs policy for the damage to the lorry. Or that any such claim has to have been successfully 
defended. 
UKI has said if Mr B decides to have his car repaired and they pay for it, he will have to pay 
his excess up front. But UKI will then consider recovering their outlay from the insurer of the 
lorry, along with Mr Bs excess. And if the other insurer wont agree to pay these costs they 
will consider legal action against them. If they think legal action would be successful, but 
they decided against it for financial reasons, UKI have said they will then reimburse Mr Bs 
excess themselves. However, at the moment, because Mr B doesnt want to have his car 
repaired and the repairs paid for by UKI, they can do no more than keep chasing the agent 
of the insurer of the lorry for an admission of liability. I can understand this approach, as 
without an outlay it is difficult to see what else UKI can do. Therefore, I consider their 
approach is reasonable in the circumstances.  
UKI has accepted their poor handling caused some delays and Mr B hasnt actually 
suggested to us that the £140 they paid in compensation to reflect this is unacceptable to 
him. He has focused on his point that UKI should have checked for camera footage at the 
outset. But, for the sake of completeness, I should say I am satisfied that what UKI has paid 
in compensation for any impact the delays and errors in requesting information on his claim 
had on Mr B is reasonable.  
It therefore follows, that I dont think Mr Bs complaint about UKI should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman