DRN-2339055
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mrs T brought the complaint in respect of herself and the estate of her late 
husband, Mr T. She says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI with his card.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint.
Mrs T and the estate of Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
However, they didnt raise any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.  When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I see we still have access to the agreement the late Mr T signed when he applied for his new 
card. There was a section on the agreement which invited him to choose if he did  or he 
didnt  want PPI with the new card he was applying for. He specifically selected the PPI 
option and he also signed to agree to the credit terms. So this demonstrates to me that he 
wanted this type of protective cover and I think Capital One properly obtained his consent.
I note this was a postal application and therefore not an advised sale. This means Capital 
One didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for him, the decision about buying the 
cover was for the late Mr T to make and he would have made his way through the postal 
application in his own time without any intervention from Capital One. 
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. 
Nevertheless, its certainly possible the information Capital One gave the late Mr T about the 
PPI wasnt quite as clear as it should have been and Ive given a lot of thought to this area. 
However, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what the late Mr T reasonably thought 
he was buying from the information he was likely given at the point of sale. I therefore dont 
think he would have declined the policy, even if Capital One could have done a better job at 
explaining things. 
This is because he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions 
we tend to see in these types of policy. The PPI would also have paid 10% off his 
outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This 
would have been in addition to any other means the late Mr T had at that time. 
Ive also seen nothing else that would have made claiming for back or mental health 
problems especially onerous for the late Mr T either. The representative told us about the 
late Mr Ts medical history in the context of any pre-existing medical conditions that might 
have affected his ability to successfully claim on the policy. But I think the information the 
representative sent in is incorrect and therefore unreliable. It said hed had to take time off 
work following an operation at a point in time when the late Mr T was clearly only a child. Im 
afraid I dont see the information provided in this respect as relevant matters for me to 
consider.
Overall, I think this policy was of use to the late Mr T.
Mrs T and the estate of Mr Ts representative also raised a number of what I consider to be 
general points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of 
utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a 
claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in this particular case. But these points dont 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the complaint. This means Capital One 
(Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T.
my decision
I do not uphold the complaint by Mrs T and the estate of Mr T or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T and the 
estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman