DRN-4036819
The complaint
Mr H complains Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) provided poor branch service when 
he wanted to discuss his maturing savings accounts. 
What happened
Mr H says he visited a local branch of Yorkshire as he had two savings accounts that had 
matured, and he wanted to reinvest these funds into new savings products.
Mr H says he was kept waiting in a queue for some while and when he approached the 
member of counter staff he was told he needed to make an appointment, which was a new 
rule. Mr H says the member of staff then corrected herself and said the branch was too busy 
to deal with his request, as it was closing at 2:30pm that day. 
Mr H says he then spoke to a manager at the branch who said much the same but agreed 
on this occasion she would help. Mr H says the manager then informed him she only had 
time to deal with one of his maturing accounts, even though the branch didnt appear to be 
busy. Mr H says eventually another member of staff agreed to open the second account. 
Mr H says having lodged a formal complaint about the misinformation hed been given 
around having to book an appointment, he was accused of threating behaviour towards the 
staff which he denies, albeit accepts he did raise his voice because of the poor service hed 
received.
Mr H wants the members of Yorkshires staff to apologise for the poor service he received 
that day. And to apologise for the misinformation about having to book an appointment 
(which he says he has since learned from other Yorkshire branches not to be true) and for 
Yorkshire to admit he hadnt been aggressive to its staff and to pay him compensation for 
this.
Yorkshire says it would not ordinarily deal with maturing savings accounts at the counter and 
on this occasion there wasnt sufficient trained staff to deal with this. Yorkshire says its staff 
tried to explain this to Mr H, but he became angry, and it wouldnt tolerate further aggressive 
behaviour like this. Yorkshire explained it did open the accounts Mr H asked for as an 
exception, but it couldnt guarantee this going forward. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Yorkshires response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Yorkshire had acted fairly when it informed Mr H he needed to book an 
appointment to open the new accounts he needed, given the availability of staff that day. 
The investigator says while he understands the frustrations Mr H faced, he was able to open 
the accounts he wanted. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr H to initially be told he needed to book 
an appointment to open the savings accounts he wanted to, and then be accused of being 
aggressive to Yorkshires branch staff following his complaint to them. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Yorkshire branch acted fairly when it 
suggested he needed to book an appointment and if it had been unfair to have accused Mr 
H of aggressive behaviour to its staff. 
Mr H has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything Mr H has said  I have. 
Mr Hs complaint centres around two main issues  firstly he was incorrectly told by 
Yorkshires branch staff he needed to make an appointment to deal with the maturity of his 
two savings accounts and to open new accounts - Mr H says he has checked this, following 
telephone calls he made and visits to other Yorkshire branches. Secondly he is upset that 
Yorkshire have accused him of using aggressive behaviour towards its staff at that time. 
I understand the points Mr H makes about the fact he was told he needed to book an 
appointment even though in his view the branch had staff available and wasnt overly busy, 
and this was more to do with its early closure that day. Although I can see it would have 
been frustrating for Mr H to hear this, as he wanted to deal with what was no doubt an 
important matter to him, its also fair to say while the branch may not have looked particularly 
busy, it would in all likelihood have had many other procedures and processes it would need 
to deal, with beyond its day-to-day counter operations. 
Yorkshire have explained that dealing with the maturity and re investment into another 
savings product is something that needs to be handled by appropriately trained staff. Here, 
on this occasion the branch manager didnt feel she had the capacity at that particular time, 
to deal with Mr Hs account maturities and Im satisfied that is a decision she should be able 
to make in her capacity as manager of that branch. That said while perhaps the reasons for 
this may not have been explained as fully as Mr H had wanted, ultimately the account 
transactions he wanted to make were dealt with that day. 
As far as the letter Mr H has received from Yorkshire about his behaviour when he visited 
the branch is concerned, which he denies is true, theres no available CCTV for me to view 
given the time that has passed  that said its unlikely it would have proved much help here 
without any audio. 
Regardless of this, its not for me to tell Yorkshire what it considers to be acceptable 
behaviour from its members, but by Mr Hs own admission he did raise his voice and argued 
with the branch staff when he visited. So, while he may not see that as being aggressive or 
indeed meant it to be, that may well have been taken as being aggressive behaviour by the 
staff to whom it was directed. 
While Mr H may not agree, in all probability here based on what Ive been informed, he in all likelihood was frustrated and became vocal and this was interpreted as untoward behaviour 
by the staff members. I understand Yorkshire have agreed to continue to the banking 
relationship and asked Mr H whether it needs to make any adjustments to the way it serves 
him going forward, which Mr H has taken offence to. Here Im satisfied Yorkshire were 
simply trying to establish if there was anything it needed to be aware of going forward, about 
Mr Hs circumstances and I dont feel it was unreasonable to ask that here.
Its also worth saying from time to time we all face inconvenience but thats not to say this is 
always intentional and I am satisfied it wasnt the case here. 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Yorkshire 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman