DRN-2412657
complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont reimburse her for two 
bank transfers she made after she fell victim to a scam.
background
 In May 2019, Mrs S received a call from someone claiming to be from a fraud squad 
investment office. The caller told Mrs S that theyd identified that someone had been 
removing money from her account and that, in total, around £400 had been removed. Mrs S 
was told that members of Halifax staff were being investigated and that another colleague 
would be in touch with her shortly. Unknown to Mrs S at the time, she was speaking to a 
scammer, and no such investigation was taking place.
Mrs S received another call and was told a new account had been set aside for her. Mrs S 
was told she could pick a name to add to the account, so she provided her daughters. She 
was asked to go to her local branch and transfer £8,600 to the new account and if asked by 
bank staff, not to say anything other than that the money was a loan. 
On 16 May 2019 Mrs S visited a Halifax branch to make the bank transfer as instructed. 
Halifax says it completed a High Value Checklist (HVC), read Mrs S a scam script and 
asked her the nature of the payment before completing the transfer. Mrs S says she doesnt 
recall a script being read, or being asked any questions about the transfer.
Over the next few days, Mrs S continued to receive calls from the scammers asking if shed 
had any contact with the bank. On 24 May 2019, Mrs S was asked to send a further £8,400 
to a different account name. Mrs S asked the scammer for contact addresses and telephone 
numbers and was assured that she would receive this information by letter shortly. The 
scammers also reassured her that all her money was safe. On this basis, Mrs S visited her 
branch the same day to make the second transfer. Halifax says it again completed a HVC, 
read a scam script and asked for the reason for the transfer before processing the request. 
Mrs S has said she only recalls being asked if shed been put up to making the transfer. 
She says she didnt want to tell the branch staff about the call shed received as she felt 
scared and pressured to not hamper the fraud squads investigation.
That evening, worried about the payments shed made, Mrs S rang her daughter who 
suggested they visit the branch the next morning for advice. Mrs S visited the branch with 
her daughter and reported the scam. Halifax contacted both banks Mrs S had made 
transfers to, but unfortunately the funds had already been removed from both accounts.
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs S complained to Halifax. She said Halifax shouldve stopped 
the payments being made as they were suspicious in comparison to her normal account 
activity. She also said Halifax has never provided her with information on how to protect 
herself from scams.
Halifax provided its final response on 27 June 2019. It said Mrs S willingly made the 
payment and sufficient awareness was raised about the payment at the time  therefore 
Halifax didnt consider it was liable to refund her.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mrs S brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought that the transfers were sufficiently out of character that Halifax shouldve 
gone further than reading a scam script.  She thought that, as Mrs S hadnt been given a 
detailed cover story by the scammers, if Halifax wouldve asked more questions about the 
transfer, it couldve identified that Mrs S was being scammed and prevented the withdrawals. 
Our investigator also recommended that Halifax compensate Mrs S £300 to acknowledge 
the distress caused by losing her pension savings. 
Halifax didnt agree. It said the following script was read to Mrs S which specifically states 
that the bank would not ask customers to move funds:
There are a number of scams currently in operation and customers are being contacted by
fraudsters, often claiming to be from the Police or from the banks Fraud Team. We are
aware that the fraudsters are telling customers that their funds are unsafe and that branch
staff are involved. The banks Fraud Team or the Police will never ask you to hand over cash
or cards, or to move money to a safe account. Please confirm that you are not making the
withdrawal because you have been told to by a third party. Please be aware that if you are,
then your money could be at risk.
Halifax said it would only apply the Banking Protocol if it considered this necessary based on 
the customers behaviour and responses to the HVC. In this case it said Mrs Ss behaviour 
did not arouse suspicion. Halifax also disagreed with the investigators compensation award. 
It said Mrs S went against the statement provided to her by the branch about fraud and 
indeed lied to the colleagues.
As Halifax didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an authorised payment even though Mrs S was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. She requested for the payment to be made so, although she did not intend the money 
to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Mrs S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider  
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs S when she carried out this payment to a fraudster, or whether it should have done 
more than it did.
Halifax has said that it carried out a HVC and read a scam script to Mrs S and wasnt 
suspicious about her answers or behaviour, therefore it didnt consider it necessary to 
implement the Banking Protocol, which is an initiative between the Police, financial sector 
and Trading Standards to identify and prevent fraud from happening.
As part of the Banking Protocol, financial businesses commit to identifying unusual 
withdrawals, discreetly questioning the customer about the withdrawal (while keeping in 
mind that their customer may have been told that they are helping to catch corrupt bank staff 
having been provided with a cover story) and to take the customer to a quiet area for further 
questions if they have concerns. It recognises that detailed questions are often required by 
bank staff to understand when a customer may be the victim of fraud and for customers to 
realise they have fallen victim. While the Banking Protocol isnt limited to elderly or 
vulnerable customers, crime data analysis has identified that those aged over 70 are at a 
greater risk of falling victim to fraud.
In this case Mrs S attended her branch on both occasions and requested to make 
withdrawals of over £8,000 each. Ive reviewed Mrs Ss statements for the 12 month period 
leading up to the scam and can see that she had only withdrawn money from this account on 
four occasions  the largest of these withdrawals being £550. The evidence Ive seen also 
suggests the fraudulent payments were Mrs Ss only faster payment transactions in the      
12 month period. So I think the fraudulent transactions were suspicious in comparison to  
Mrs Ss normal spending.
Mrs S was in her 70s and retired when the scam occurred. I dont intend to make a finding 
on whether Mrs S was vulnerable at the time of the scam. But as Ive explained, this age 
profile is one disproportionately targeted by scammers  which I think meant she was at a 
greater risk of becoming the victim of a scam, so it is relevant here.
Ive thought about the HVC that Halifax completed  as well as the scam script read to     
Mrs S. While I agree the script was based around the type of scam Mrs S fell victim to, it 
clearly didnt break the spell in this case  and Mrs S has said she doesnt recall it being 
read. So I think its fair to conclude it didnt have much impact on her. 
As Ive explained, the Banking Protocol recognises that banks may need to ask further 
questions in order to identify a customer is at risk of fraud. Halifax determined that this 
wasnt necessary in this case, based on its HVC and Mrs Ss behaviour, but I disagree. In 
this case Mrs S was making an unusual value transfer to a new payee. I think that this shift 
in banking behaviour was sufficient for Halifax to ask further questions on top of a script.
Had Halifax asked further questions  for example, the reason for the loan, how the account 
details were provided, had Mrs S transferred money to this family member before  as well 
as elaborating further on what safe account scams look and feel like in the context of these 
payments Mrs S was trying to make - I think this scam wouldve come to light. I say this 
because Mrs S had not been given a cover story from the scammers other than to say that 
this was a loan  so I dont think it wouldve stood up to more than a basic level of enquiry. 
Halifax has said its not uncommon for customers to save up funds for specific purposes and 
then to make one-off larger transactions from their savings. While I agree this is true, 
ultimately the onus is on Halifax to satisfy itself that its customers are making genuine transactions and not about to become the victim of fraud. And in this case, I dont think 
Halifax did enough.
Lastly, Ive considered Halifaxs comments that Mrs S went against the statements it 
provided to her and ultimately lied about the reason for the payment. As Ive explained, Im 
satisfied Mrs S was under the spell of a scammer who had manipulated her into believing 
she was aiding a fraud investigation. Its recognised in the Banking Protocol that cover 
stories are a known scam feature, so I dont think that Mrs Ss actions mean that Halifax 
shouldnt have done more.
I have also considered whether Mrs S was herself blameworthy in some way. But I am not 
persuaded she was. All things considered, I am satisfied she was simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of clever fraudsters, who have convinced her she needed to act quickly in 
order to protect her money.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax should have identified that Mrs S was at risk of financial 
harm and done more to prevent this. Had it asked further questions when Mrs S first visited 
the branch, I think it couldve stopped the scam from occurring and stopped Mrs S making 
either transfer.
Mrs S has explained the account she made the transfer from is her pension savings. While I 
dont doubt that the main cause of Mrs Ss distress was a result of the scammers actions, I 
think Halifax couldve reduced the distress caused to Mrs S if it had prevented her losing her 
money to this scam. I therefore think £300 in compensation is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. I now direct Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to:
refund Mrs S for the total of £17,000 she lost
pay interest on that amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.
pay Mrs S £300 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman