DRN-3143962
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) held 
her liable for a loan which was taken out fraudulently in her name.
What happened
In 2019, a series of substantial loans were applied for in Miss Ds name. Some of these went 
through, while other applications were blocked due to concerns of impersonation.
Each of the successful loan applications were paid into Miss Ds account, then immediately 
transferred to her partner at the time (now ex-partner). One of these loans was an £800 one 
from Evergreen.
Miss D reported the loan as fraudulent. She explained her ex-partner had used spyware to 
access her computer and accounts. Hed applied for loans in her name, then transferred the 
money to himself. Miss D was extremely distressed.
The other loan companies looked into things and eventually accepted this was a case of 
identity fraud. But Evergreen held Miss D liable for the £800 loan. They said the loan had 
been applied for using some of Miss Ds correct details, had been paid into her bank 
account, and theyd had an email from her work address. They suggested Miss D had been 
negligent in allowing her ex-partner to access her account, whereas they said theyd acted in 
good faith when they gave out the loan.
Evergreen did agree to remove the interest on the loan, and agreed to stop reporting it on 
Miss Ds credit file if she paid off the capital. So to avoid further damage to her credit, Miss D 
paid off the capital herself. She came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They asked Evergreen for basic evidence 
to substantiate that Miss D had agreed to this loan, but did not receive this. They upheld the 
complaint. They found that there was a plausible and likely way the ex-partner could have 
done this without Miss Ds permission. The other lenders involved had looked at the 
evidence and confirmed this was a case of ID theft. There were entries on CIFAS, the 
national fraud database, backing this up. Miss D had not benefitted from the loan as the 
money had been transferred to the ex-partner straight away. And given what had happened, 
it was unlikely shed ever consented to the loan.
Evergreen didnt agree. It felt it hadnt had sufficient time to consider the complaint. It said 
the loan application had passed its checks. It received an email from Miss Ds work address 
and a payment from her account. It suggested the other lenders had only written off their 
loans to avoid hassle. It pointed out that Miss D had withdrawn the police investigation in 
order to try to get a civil settlement. It accused Miss D of having either fabricated the matter 
or of trying to double-dip her compensation. It felt it had done a thorough investigation and 
acted fairly, and felt we were taking Miss Ds word for things. It suggested that if we upheld 
this case, it would have to refund just about every customer.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I also asked Evergreen for basic evidence such as the full application data, agreement, 
evidence of the checks it said it carried out, and relevant notes and recordings. However, 
I also did not receive a reply.
I sent Miss D and Evergreen a provisional decision on 6 October 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree with our investigator that Evergreen has got things 
wrong here.
First of all, I understand that Evergreen felt it had not had the proper opportunity to deal with 
this complaint. But I can see that Miss D expressed her dissatisfaction sufficiently, and later 
even asked for a final response so she could come to our service. At the latest, we made 
Evergreen fully aware of Miss Ds complaint in January 2021. So Evergreen has had far 
more than the required 8 weeks to look into this. And this case has come to us from an 
appropriate customer, against a firm we cover, about an activity we cover, within the 
required time. I am satisfied that this complaint is within our jurisdiction. 
In terms of the loan at hand, I can understand where Evergreen is coming from in some of its 
arguments. However, I think the core issue here is that it has approached the matter from 
the wrong angle. Evergreens position seems to be, in essence, that it should be able to hold 
Miss D liable for the loan unless she can prove that it wasnt hers. When in fact, the onus is 
on Evergreen to show that it was hers and that it had the right to take payments from her. If it 
cannot do that, then it cannot hold her liable. This should hopefully be fairly intuitive.
Thus far, Evergreen has provided relatively little evidence that this was Miss Ds loan, 
despite our repeated requests. It has not even given us the full application data, let alone 
copies of the checks which it alleges it carried out.
On the other hand, Ive seen text conversations where Miss Ds ex-partner admitted to using 
spyware to access her computer and accounts, and admitted to taking out these loans in her 
name without her consent. Ive also listened to the recording of a call where it seems he 
spoke with one of the other lenders involved and confessed.
We have looked at what some of the other lenders did and they did not simply write things 
off to avoid hassle  as Evergreen has suggested  but found the evidence supported that 
these loans were not genuine. Importantly, Evergreen could have spoken to these other 
lenders to compare findings, and could have looked at what theyd put on the fraud 
database. But instead, it seems to have simply dismissed them writing off substantial loans 
as avoiding hassle without any real basis to support this assertion.From what I understand, this Evergreen loan was applied for using some genuine details of 
Miss Ds, such as her name and date of birth. But that doesnt show it was hers. Its 
unsurprising that her partner would have known such details. Importantly, it looks like the 
phone number and primary email address given were not Miss Ds, which makes sense if it 
was someone else applying for the loan in her name. Other loan companies found that these 
contact details were not linked to Miss D when it ran checks on them, and I understand that 
those details are now registered on the national fraud database.
I understand Evergreens point that it received an email from Miss Ds work address. But 
since it seems her ex-partner had access to her computer and had installed spyware, its not 
surprising if he had access to her email too. Its worth bearing in mind this happened during 
the pandemic when Miss D would have been accessing her work email remotely. Evergreen 
only received the one email from Miss Ds work account, which then explicitly told them to 
only use the false email address from now on. I think its likely this was her ex-partner.
Similarly, I understand that Evergreen paid the loan into Miss Ds bank account and received 
a payment in return. But thats not surprising either if Miss Ds ex-partner had gained access 
to her bank account. I can see that the loan money was immediately transferred to the ex-
partner, which fits with his apparent confession.
Evergreen argued that Miss D was somehow negligent here. But I dont see that she was. 
I fail to see how she could have reasonably been expected to predict or prevent her ex-
partner putting spyware on her computer. Im afraid its suggestion of negligence comes 
across as another unfounded assertion on Evergreens part. Further, even if Miss D had 
been negligent, that probably wouldnt be relevant here. Broadly speaking, Evergreen cannot 
hold fraud victims liable for loans they didnt apply for or benefit from just because they didnt 
keep their details safe enough.
Evergreen also argued that it had provided the loan in good faith. But again, Im afraid thats 
not relevant. It cannot hold a fraud victim liable for a loan they did not take out just because it 
provided the loan in good faith. Again, this should hopefully be intuitive.
Miss D provided clear and consistent testimony about what happened. What shes told us is 
very plausible, and Ive not found a good reason to disbelieve her. Its backed up by written 
and audio evidence of the ex-partners admission, as well as independent investigations by a 
number of lenders and our service. She reported the matter to the police and Action Fraud, 
and also tried to recover money from the perpetrator through civil means, which again helps 
demonstrate that her claim is genuine. Lastly, I can see that after Miss D says she 
discovered what happened, her doctor signed her off from work  having diagnosed her with 
a severe form of stress borne from shock and trauma. This also supports her testimony.
Evergreen pointed out that Miss D withdrew her case with the police, and I understand why it 
thought to raise this. It looks like Miss D did that to try to recover at least some of her losses 
through civil action  which I can completely understand. It seems that Miss Ds ex-partner 
not only took out tens of thousands of pounds of debt in her name, but also spent substantial 
amounts of Miss Ds own money on gambling. I can see that the ex-partner was recovering 
some of the money from the gambling companies. Miss D explained that she faced a choice 
of either continuing with the police investigation and potentially getting none of her money 
back, or co-operating with her ex-partners lawyers to recover some of the money lost to 
gambling. Her choice seems reasonable to me and I dont think it undermines her testimony.Evergreen also suggested that Miss D was trying to double her compensation by receiving it 
from both Evergreen and her ex-partner. It does not appear to have looked into this point 
and has not provided anything to substantiate this assertion. I should explain that Evergreen 
cannot hold customers liable for loans they did not take out purely on the basis that they 
might have received compensation elsewhere.
We spoke to Miss D about this and she was most candid with us about what was going on. 
Firstly, I should explain that the action her ex-partner took was against a gambling firm, to 
recover money he spent on gambling  it was not a duplication of Miss Ds action regarding 
this Evergreen loan. Secondly, from what I understand the ex-partner owes Miss D many 
tens of thousands of pounds, and has at present repaid around two-thirds of this. So given 
the amounts involved, I dont think theres a significant risk that Miss D will receive too much 
overall if Evergreen refunds a loan of only £800. Lastly, I should point out that I do not have 
any remit over the dispute between Miss D and the perpetrator, nor Evergreen and the 
perpetrator. What I am primarily here to look at is whether this loan was genuine, and 
whether Evergreen can hold Miss D liable for it. I dont think it was genuine, and so I dont 
think Evergreen can hold her liable.
Evergreen suggested that if we uphold this case, then all of its customers could claim 
refunds. But this case is quite specific. This is a situation where, to list some examples:
Evergreen has not provided basic evidence to show this loan was genuine;
The loan was applied for using false contact details which I understand are registered 
on the national fraud database;
There is a plausible and likely explanation for how the fraud happened without the 
consumers consent;
There appears to be both a written and audio confession from the perpetrator;
The consumer didnt benefit from the funds as they were transferred to the 
perpetrator almost straight away;
There is a clear and consistent pattern of fraud more widely;
A number of other lenders have made their own investigations and concluded that 
this was a case of ID theft;
The consumer provided clear, consistent, and plausible testimony; and-
The consumer reported things to the police and Action Fraud and pursued a civil 
claim against the perpetrator.
In this decision I have only considered this matter, and not any of Evergreens other loans 
with other customers. But I should think that this situation is not identical across all of its 
customers.Taking into account everything thats been said and provided, Im not currently persuaded 
that Miss D consented to this loan. So I dont think Evergreen can hold her liable for it, and it 
cannot withhold the money she lost to pay for it.
I do appreciate that Evergreen took the interest off this loan and committed to removing it 
from Miss Ds credit file once it was paid. But I dont agree with Evergreen that it did a 
thorough enough investigation or acted fairly enough overall. For example, it could have 
looked into why all the other lenders had concluded their loans were fraudulent, and could 
have looked into the information registered on the national fraud database. Instead, it made 
unfounded assertions that those lenders were just avoiding hassle. It made similarly 
unfounded accusations against Miss D, some of which were of a rather harsh nature. It 
approached the case from an unreasonable angle and held a customer liable for a loan 
which it does not appear to be able to evidence they actually agreed to or benefitted from. It 
failed to adequately address Miss Ds complaint and failed to adequately co-operate with our 
service, which delayed things. All-in-all, it added significant stress for Miss D and caused her 
further trouble and upset when she was already in an awful situation. I agree with our 
investigator that Evergreen should pay Miss D some compensation to acknowledge its errors 
and the impact of them.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 November 2021. Evergreen didnt add anything further. Miss D sent in a copy of a further 
email from her ex-partner where he admitted hed stolen money from her, as well as 
correspondence from a gambling rehabilitation clinic which confirmed her ex-partners 
gambling addiction issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Evergreen has not added any new evidence or arguments. And Miss D has added evidence 
which only further supports her testimony. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as before  that Evergreen cannot hold Miss D liable for this loan.
Putting things right
I direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to:
Refund any payments Miss D made towards this loan;
Pay simple interest to Miss D on each of her payments, at the rate of 8% simple a 
year, payable from the date they were taken until the date theyre returned. This is to 
compensate Miss D for the time she didnt have her money;
Disassociate Miss D from the loan and not pursue her for it in future;
Remove any trace of this loan from her credit file, if any remains; and-
Pay Miss D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this simple interest. Evergreen 
must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Miss D can 
claim back the tax from HMRC if she does not pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint, and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to put things right 
in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman