DRN-4483363
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the service she received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(DG) under a protection policy for her fridge freezer.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
What happened
The following is a summary of the events in this case, drawing on what Mrs F and DG have 
told us. Their accounts arent fully consistent  DG say Mrs F was out when an engineer 
called on one occasion, but Mrs F disputes this, saying she was in all day. So, Ive set out 
what I believe is the sequence of events from the respective accounts of Mrs F and DG.
Mrs F had a protection policy with DG covering breakdown and repairs to her fridge freezer, 
which she took out on 8th May 2023. The following day she contacted DG to tell them the 
fridge freezer was faulty. A repair was booked for the same day and an engineer attended 
but couldnt fix the problem. DG contacted Mrs F two days later to arrange for a re-gassing 
of the fridge freezer, and an appointment was scheduled for 22nd May. However, the 
engineer said he was unable to access the property (DG said he left a missed you card, 
including a number for Mrs F to contact them to re-schedule an appointment). Mrs F said 
she was in all day. DG say Mrs F told them an engineer attended on 22nd May and told her 
parts were needed to repair the fridge freezer.
Mrs F contacted DG on 6th June and an appointment was scheduled for 13th June. The 
engineer attended and re-gassed the fridge freezer, advising Mrs F to monitor it. However, 
the fridge freezer stopped working again and Mrs F contacted DG on 19th June, a new 
appointment was arranged for 21st June. At that point the engineer concluded the fridge 
freezer wasnt repairable. DG offered a replacement as the fridge freezer couldnt be fixed 
(the re-gassing hadnt fixed the problem). Mrs F chose a replacement fridge freezer, which 
was delivered on 26th June.
Mrs F was unhappy at what happened after her initial contact with DG and complained on 6th 
June. DG issued their final response on 6th June in which they referred to a discussion with 
Mrs F they said led to an outcome agreed with Mrs F.
Following the further issues with her fridge freezer, Mrs F made a second complaint on 19th 
June saying shed lost a considerable amount of frozen food and further stress. In 
consideration of what happened, DG logged a further complaint and awarded £100 
compensation.
Mrs F also complained to this service. She said what had happened had caused her a lot of 
stress as shed been without a fridge freezer for over five weeks. Shed been passed 
between different departments and had her account closed when her fridge freezer needed 
a part. Shed been told an engineer visited on Bank Holiday Monday (when she was at home 
all day) when it wasnt true. She wanted an explanation for what had happened and 
compensation for the stress shed suffered and having to buy a secondhand fridge freezer. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the initial engineer visit recommended a 
re-gassing of the fridge freezer, but this didnt happen until a month later. While recognising 
some issues in contacting Mrs F, the investigator thought DG were responsible for the delay. 
While it was reasonable for DG to have attempted to repair the fridge freezer, before 
deciding to write it off, the delays and poor service and lack of updates to Mrs F caused her 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator didnt think the £100 compensation DG had 
awarded Mrs F was unreasonable. 
But the delays in arranging a repair meant Mrs F had to purchase a secondhand fridge 
freezer to temporarily store food, which she wouldnt have had to do were it not for the 
delays in repairs. But the investigator didnt think DG should have to pay for the lost food. To 
put things right, in addition to the £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, the 
investigator thought DG should reimburse Mrs F for the cost of the secondhand fridge 
freezer, together with interest from one month after Mrs F raised her claim, to the date DG 
reimbursed her.
DG disagreed with the investigators view, raising several points. First, the need for a re-gas 
was identified at the outset and a visit arranged for later in May. While the appointment didnt 
take place, it wasnt for a couple of weeks until Mrs F contacted them to book another 
appointment. So, they didnt accept theyd taken a month to carry out the re-gassing. 
Second, Mrs F took out the policy on 8th May, then reported the fault with the fridge freezer 
on 9th May, so they questioned whether (as the policy required) it was in working order when 
she took out the policy (the need for a re-gassing would not have occurred in one day). Mrs 
F had paid one months premium under the policy and DG had provided a new replacement 
fridge freezer and awarded £100 compensation. They thought this fair and reasonable.
In my findings, I concluded DGs offer of £100 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
However, I didnt think it reasonable for DG to reimburse her for the cost of a secondhand 
fridge freezer. I thought policy exclusions would apply to the cost of any temporary 
replacement of Mrs Fs fridge freezer (whether hired or, as in this case, a purchased 
temporary replacement). The exclusions would also apply to any frozen or refrigerated food 
that may have been lost. 
Second, as Mrs F purchased a secondhand fridge freezer, and she was provided with a new 
replacement fridge freezer, shed been put back into the position she was in before her 
original fridge freezer became faulty. To also reimburse her for the cost of a secondhand 
fridge freezer would mean she would be in a better position than before the incident (shed 
have two fridge freezers, not one). 
Taking all these points together, as DG had already paid the £100 compensation I thought 
fair and reasonable, I didnt think they needed to do anything further to settle the complaint.
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to acknowledge what Mrs F has told us about her circumstances and 
vulnerability, and the impact they have on her. I recognise the importance of having a 
working fridge freezer and so the time taken for her fridge freezer to be repaired (and ultimately replaced) would have been stressful for Mrs F. Ive borne this in mind when 
deciding, as is my role here, whether DG have acted fairly towards Mrs F.
The key issue in Mrs Fs complaint is the time taken for repairs to be carried out on her 
fridge freezer. Mrs F says what happened had caused her a lot of stress as shed been 
without a fridge freezer for over five weeks. Shed been passed between different 
departments and had her account closed when her fridge freezer needed a part. Shed been 
told an engineer visited when she was at home all day.
On the issue of the time taken for a repair to be carried out, Ive looked carefully at the 
sequence of events set out above, including the respective views of Mrs F and DG. It seems 
DG diagnosed the need for a re-gassing, to repair the fridge freezer. I think thats reasonable 
as Id expect DG to try to repair an appliance in the first instance (as the policy sets out). It 
appears an appointment was arranged for this to happen (22nd May) but the engineer arrived 
later than anticipated, and wasnt able to access the property. DG say the engineer left a 
card with a number for Mrs F to contact them to re-arrange the appointment (which appears 
to only have happened when Mrs F contacted DG on 6th June).
While the engineer not attending on the 22nd was unfortunate  DG say circumstances can 
mean appointment times arent always able to be kept precisely  looking at the overall 
timeline from the initial reporting of the fault, through the sequence of appointments and 
repairs, I think DG were responsible for some of the delays, but not all. Appointments cant 
always be scheduled as quickly as might be desired, and if an appointment is missed, for 
whatever reason, I dont think it unreasonable to expect a consumer to contact (in this case) 
an insurer, or their agents, to find out why (and re-schedule).
Looking at the circumstances of the case as whole, I think DGs offer of £100 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. My understanding is 
that DG have already paid the compensation to Mrs F. That being the case, I wont be 
asking them to do anything further in this respect.
Ive then considered Mrs Fs point shed had to buy a secondhand fridge freezer while 
waiting for hers to be repaired (and ultimately replaced). While I havent seen the evidence 
to support this (such as a receipt for the purchase) Ive no reason to doubt what shes said. 
However, I dont think its reasonable for DG to reimburse her for the cost of a secondhand 
fridge freezer. I recognise this will be disappointing to Mrs F, so Ill explain why Ive come to 
this conclusion.
First, the policy terms and conditions (which Mrs F was provided with when she took out the 
policy) explicitly state it wouldnt be covered. Under a heading What is not covered theres 
the following statement:
We shall not be liable for:
Costs or loss arising from not being able to use your product (e.g. hiring a 
replacement TV) or incidental costs caused by breakdown or repair (e.g. 
costs to remove or reinstate built-in or fitted equipment);
Damage to any other property or possession, unless it is our fault:
I think these exclusions would apply to the cost of any temporary replacement of Mrs Fs 
fridge freezer (whether hired or, as in this case, a purchased temporary replacement). The 
exclusions would also apply to any frozen or refrigerated food that may have been lost. 
Second, as Mrs F purchased a secondhand fridge freezer, and shes been provided with a 
new replacement fridge freezer, then shes been put back into the position she was in before her original fridge freezer became faulty. That is, she has a [new] working fridge freezer. To 
also reimburse her for the cost of a secondhand fridge freezer would mean she would be in 
a better position than before the incident (shed have two fridge freezers, not one). 
This would mean she was in a betterment position. That is, she would be in a better 
position than before the incident. Its a general principle of insurance that policyholders 
should be put back into the position they were in before the incident that caused damage or 
loss. Not that they should be put in a better position. If she doesnt need two fridge freezers 
(or have space to accommodate two) then she could sell the secondhand fridge freezer.
For these reasons, Ive concluded it wouldnt be reasonable to ask DG to reimburse Mrs F 
for the cost of the secondhand fridge freezer, or the cost of lost frozen or refrigerated food.
While Ive come to these conclusions, Ive also considered DGs second point in response to 
our investigators view. That Mrs F took out the policy the day before she reported the fault 
with the fridge freezer. So, DG question whether it was in working order when she took out 
the policy.
While I recognise the timing of the fault being reported coming a day after the policy was 
taken out may appear to be fortuitous, its not for me to determine whether the fridge freezer 
was in working order when the policy was taken out. If DG (or their repair agents) had any 
concerns about the validity of Mrs Fs claim, then it would have been for them to consider 
whether the claim was genuine. If they didnt, then I would have expected them to decide 
whether or not to attend to inspect the fridge freezer and then carry out a repair. 
As DG carried out a number of visits (and a repair) and then agreed to replace the fridge 
freezer, its reasonable to conclude they didnt have any concerns at the time about the 
validity of the claim. 
Taking all these points together, as DG have already paid the £100 compensation I think fair 
and reasonable, I dont think they need to do anything further to settle the complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Both Mrs F and DG responded to accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DG have acted fairly towards Mrs F.
As both Mrs F and DG accepted my provisional decision, then my final decision remains 
unchanged from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman