DRN-3795981
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined their 
claim for water damage to their kitchen floor.
Mr and Mrs D had a joint home insurance policy. For ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mrs D 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Looking at the evidence, the cause of the damage to Mrs Ds kitchen floor is not in 
dispute. Mrs D explained that a leak, which was fixed in 2017, mustve caused water 
to seep between the chipboard and the waterproof membrane. When the leak was 
fixed, the chipboard was allowed to dry out before fitting the new flooring. Five years 
later, it became evident that some water had remained between the two layers, 
allowing the water to gradually rot the chipboard.
Mrs D noticed a change in the way her floor felt but, understandably, due to the 
pandemic restrictions she didnt do anything about it immediately. Mrs D asked 
Admiral for advice, and it told her to record everything she did to identify the problem. 
She followed its advice and I think that was reasonable.
When restrictions lifted, Mrs D arranged for the floor to be lifted and checked for a 
leak. Ive looked at the evidence she provided which shows no movement on her 
water meter when the water was turned off and no change in boiler pressure. The 
evidence indicates, then, that there wasn't a leak. 
Mrs D told Admiral the damage mustve started during the leak in 2017, and the 
evidence supports that.
Admiral told Mrs D that the damage wasn't covered under her policy because it had 
happened gradually and pre-dated the policy Mrs D had with Admiral. Even if the 
damage didnt pre-date the policy, Ive noted that the policy specifically excludes 
cover for gradually occurring damage. 
Admiral advised Mrs D to claim under the policy in force at the time of the leak which 
was with another insurer. Its not within my remit to address that insurers response in 
my consideration of Mrs Ds complaint about Admiral.
As the cause of the damage isnt disputed, and the evidence Mrs D provided 
confirms the damage happened gradually, Im satisfied Admiral declined the claim 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Additional comments
Ive noted Mrs Ds concerns about various comments made during the investigation of her 
complaint, which Ill address briefly.
Admiral told Mrs D that she didnt have an All Risks policy, so the damage wasn't covered. 
Shes unhappy about that because she believed shed bought the best available policy. I 
cant look at the details of the policy sale because Mrs D would first need to give Admiral an 
opportunity to respond to her question about whether it was the best policy it had available at 
that time. 
For context, though, an All Risks policy is one which covers any risk that the policy doesnt 
specifically exclude. Many insurers do not offer this type of policy. Instead, they offer 
standard policies which are more prescriptive about what is covered and what isnt, with the 
option for customers to increase cover at the time of purchase for an additional premium. 
If the customer doesnt seek advice about their requirements, they are responsible for 
making sure the policy they buy includes the type of risk they want covered. That doesnt 
mean, as Mrs D said, that she must try to write down every possible thing that could go 
wrong. It simply explains that she was responsible, at the time of purchase, for making sure 
the policy was suitable for her. For example, if she had expensive jewellery she may have 
wanted to include specific cover for that which might not otherwise be in the standard policy 
wording.
As Ive said, the above points are to provide some clarity regarding concerns Mrs D raised 
during the investigation, but I havent relied on this information to reach my decision about 
whether Admiral fairly declined her claim. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Admiral fairly and reasonably declined Mrs Ds claim for her kitchen 
floor, relying on the policy exclusion for gradually occurring damage. Therefore, I wont be 
asking Admiral to do any more in respect of this matter.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman