DRN-4268720
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Ms G says:
In May/June 2022, Ms G opened an account with a third-party payment service provider (A) 
and then moved money into a crypto investment fund, which turned out to be a scam. She 
said she had been recommended to make the investment by a friend, who had successfully 
invested in the past. Ms G made six online payments to her account with A as follows:
Date Beneficiary Amount
22 July 2022 Payment service provider (A) £30 
25 July 2022 Credit from A (£70.55)
15 August 2022 Payment service provider (A) £8,000
1 September 2022 Payment service provider (A) £4,000
8 September 2022 Payment service provider (A) £2,406
9 September 2022 Payment service provider (A) £3,483.50
14 September 2022 Payment service provider (A) £2,643
Total loss £20,491.95
Miss G said she had been coerced and persuaded by the scammer to pay more money to 
the investment. She had now lost the money as it turned out to be an investment scam.
Miss G said HSBC shouldve done more to protect her  this was a crypto investment and 
HSBC, as the experts, shouldve warned her about the potential for a scam, but didnt. She 
said HSBC were responsible for the loss of her money  under the guidance and codes for 
protecting customers from scam payments - and should refund it to her.
What HSBC said:
HSBC said the payments were to an account in the name of Ms G with A and were therefore 
me to me. And so  HSBC said Ms G should raise the issue with A and didnt refund any 
money.
Our investigation so far:
Ms G brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said HSBC didnt 
have to refund any money.  Ms G made the payments to her crypto wallet and had full 
control over the money. They were me to me transactions, and therefore werent covered 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (CRM Code).
He said HSBC did stop the first payment of £8,000  and spoke to Ms G about it. On the call, 
Ms G was questioned about the payment and HSBC gave her scam warnings, but she still 
went ahead with the payment. As Ms G had verified the first (and largest) payment, he could 
see why the subsequent payments were allowed to go through. But  even if HSBC had 
intervened, based on the call, he was persuaded that Ms G wouldve gone ahead with the 
other payments in any case.
Ms G didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms G has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms G didnt intend for 
the money to (eventually) go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary  and in this case, the payments were made to Ms Gs own account with A. 
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms G when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.If the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of character with how Ms G normally 
used her account  then we would expect HSBC to have intervened and spoken to Ms G 
about them. I looked at Ms Gs account, and its fair to say that the payments were unusual 
compared to the way in which she used her account  which was to receive her salary and 
make day to day expenditure of low value. There were three payments for £5,447.18, 
£1,909.64, and £3,243.31 in December 2021  but other than those, there werent any large 
payments of the value she made in August-September 2022.
We wouldnt have expected HSBC to have intervened in the first, small payment of £30.
But  given the nature of Ms Gs account history, HSBC shouldve intervened in the large 
payment of £8,000 on 15 August 2022, and they did. HSBC held the payment and spoke to 
Ms G. I listened the call, and I quote some key parts of it  as it is important in the context of 
this complaint.
I found the call to be thorough, and HSBCs call handler asked Ms G several open, probing 
questions about the payment, and gave her sufficient warnings. 
HSBC call handler: We want to  protect customers from losing money  why do you want to 
make this payment? Ms G replied: its to my crypto currency account.
HSBC call handler: explain the purpose of this payment/what is the reason for the payment? 
Ms G: for my crypto currency account, as an investment.
HSBC call handler: how long have you had an account with A? Ms G: about a month.
HSBC call handler: how was the account opened? Ms G: via a broker who helped me open it 
via the app.
HSBC: Have you made payments in the past to this beneficiary? Ms G: yes.
HSBC: Did you pay anything to the broker, a fee? Ms G: no.
HSBC: Have the previous payments been credited to your account with A? Ms G: yes.
HSBC: Has anyone told you how to answer our questions, or how to mislead us in any way? 
Ms G: no.
HSBC: We have seen scammers (like this)  are you making an investment into a scheme 
promising significantly higher returns? Ms G: yes.
HSBC: What checks have you carried out to verify the legitimacy of this company? Ms G: 
recommended by a friend whos also with them.
HSBC: If this is a crypto investment have you made sure you are making payment directly to 
the provider? Ms G: yes.
HSBC: Is the online wallet in your name only and only you can access it? Ms G: yes.
HSBC: Have you seen all HSBCs fraud warnings online? Ms G: yes.
HSBC: Will you be making any more payments to this beneficiary in the future? Ms G: 
maybe, cant say right now.HSBC: read out a scam warning  criminals are using sophisticated investment scams with 
the aim of getting unsuspecting people to hand over money, they seem genuine and 
knowledgeable, always check the beneficiary.we may not be able to recover any 
payments made. Ms G: I agree.
HSBC: Do you want to proceed, or do you want more time to consider and conduct further 
checks? Ms G: Id like to proceed.
HSBC: HSBC will not be liable for any subsequent losses.
The payment was then released.
Im satisfied that HSBC asked all the necessary questions, received positive answers from 
Ms G, and gave warnings - and Ms G confirmed she was happy to go ahead. Therefore, I 
dont reasonably hold HSBC responsible for Ms Gs loss of the payment of £8,000.
I then considered the subsequent payments. These were of a much lower value  and the 
obligations of HSBC were therefore less. And theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. In this case, I think HSBC acted reasonably in processing the 
subsequent payments.
HSBC could also see that the subsequent payments were to the same beneficiary as the 
earlier large payment of £8,000, so we wouldnt have expected them to question them. And 
even if HSBC had intervened such were the responses from Ms G on the first call in August 
2022  that Im persuaded she wouldve gone ahead anyway.
So  in the circumstances of this case, I dont hold HSBC liable for the payments made.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. Ms G contacted HSBC on 12 
December 2022. I can see that HSBC then contacted A on 22 December 2022, but no funds 
remained  as Ms G had moved them into the scam investment well before then. Im 
satisfied that HSBC did what we wouldve expected to try to get the money back.
Im sorry Ms G has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for her losses.(continued  
final decision below)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman