DRN-3026066
The complaint
Miss J complains that Club La Costa (UK) Plc (CLC) refused to let her terminate an 
agreement for a timeshare membership.
What happened
On 27 March 2017 Miss J took out membership with CLC at a cost of £12,3318 which was 
funded by a loan from a lender I will call H. She has made two complaints, one about the 
sales process and the granting of the loan, which are being dealt with separately. This 
complaint is dealing solely with the refusal by CLC to cancel the agreement. 
The agreement Miss J signed allowed for her to withdraw within 14 days. CLCs records 
show that she discussed her membership with the client liaison team on 30 March. On 3 
April its records show that Miss J tried to book a holiday and was referred to another team. It 
says she next contacted its marketing team on 17 April about referrals and later that day she 
spoke to another member of the team expressing concern about the cost. On 18 April she 
emailed CLC asking to withdraw from her membership.
CLC replied to her the same day to explain that she passed the cooling off period and her 
membership had been activated.
Miss J says she spoke to several representatives of CLC within the 14 days period to let 
them know she wished to withdraw. She said she signed the agreement in the first few days 
of her holiday and it wasnt easy to make contact with CLC. She also said that due to a 
public holiday there were times she was unable to contact CLC.
Mis Js complaint was rejected by CLC and so she brought the matter to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
concluded there was no clear evidence that Miss J sought to cancel the agreement within 
the 14-day period and so he didnt consider CLC was wrong to reject he later request.
Miss J didnt agree and said she had made several attempts to cancel by phone, but without 
success. She tried to obtain records of the calls but was unable to do so. She explained that 
she was unable to afford the monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all the evidence and find myself in agreement with our adjudicator. I have 
every sympathy with Miss J and the situation in which she finds herself, but on the very 
narrow matter of whether she cancelled the agreement with the 14-day period I cannot 
uphold her complaint. 
I have considered all the Miss J has said and I have read the system notes from CLC which 
records contacts with her. It is not disputed that she signed the agreement on 27 March 
2017. This contract allowed her 14 days to cancel without giving a reason. The first record I 
have of her cancelling the agreement is 18 April which is after the 14-day window had 
passed.
That email makes no reference to any attempts to cancel previously or any difficulties in 
making contact with CLC staff. I also note that she emailed CLC again on 2 May about 
referring friends and colleagues. 
Miss J says that local holidays meant CLC offices were closed. I have looked and can see 
that there were Easter holidays in that country beginning on 13 April so I cannot see that this 
has any bearing on her apparent difficulties in contacting CLC. 
It seems to me that most likely she simply left it too late to make use of her cancellation 
rights and as such I cannot say that CLC has done anything wrong in that regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman