DRN-4463012
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by gambling.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2023, Mr S complained to NatWest about payments he made to various gambling sites, 
which he said amounted to £40,000. He told NatWest it had failed to properly deal with his 
previous scam claim, which led to his gambling habit. He said it should have flagged the 
payments because they were out of character and his outgoings were higher than his 
income. 
NatWest refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It accepted the scam had affected Mr 
Ss mental health and that hed been suffering with depression. But it said it wasnt 
responsible for the fact Mr S started gambling after the scam claim was declined. 
It explained its security systems wouldnt have triggered as the spending was genuine and 
even if the payments had triggered an intervention, he would have confirmed the payments 
were genuine and they would have been approved. It accepted it could have potentially 
offered support and advice to Mr S about gambling, but it wasnt aware that there was a 
problem and it is unable to stop customers using their accounts for gambling unless they 
disclose that there is an issue. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said he started gambling after 
the scam as he felt it was the only way to recover the money hed lost. He believes NatWest 
should have picked up on the fact he was using his account to make payments for gambling 
and raised questions about his spending. He said it should have questioned the payments 
because they were out of character and on one occasion, he sent over £3,500 in 24 hours 
with no intervention. He also took out a loan for £5,700.
Mr S has said that if NatWest had questioned his spending and provided advice on how to 
stop gambling, he would have stopped gambling straight away. He said it should have 
offered him support and guidance, which would have prevented it getting out of control. 
NatWest said there was no evidence that Mr S had notified it that he had a gambling issue. It 
also said that he had been maintaining a credit balance since 2021, and his account activity 
was in line with the T&Cs of the account. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said there wasnt any 
evidence that Mr S had told Halifax about his gambling problem, and he wasnt going to 
comment on why he started gambling.
He noted that Mr Ss account balance was always above zero, and the gambling amounts 
had increased gradually over a period of a several months, so he didnt think the change in 
account activity was significant enough for NatWest to have intervened. He explained that 
gambling isnt unusual, and there was nothing to suggest the websites Mr S used werent 
legitimate, so he dont think NatWest had any reason to think M S, or his account was at risk.
Ms S has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He maintains he did 
tell NatWest about his gambling, and he said he was vulnerable and suffering with mental 
health problems caused by the scam when he complained about the scam.
Hes also said the fact his account didnt go below zero was no reason not to question the 
extreme and out of character spending and NatWest should have done more to stop him 
from spending money on gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr S authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, under the Regulations, and 
under the terms and conditions of his bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
Mr S has said his gambling habit was caused by the scam he was victim to in 2021, and the 
way NatWest handled the subsequent scam claim. While I note the reasons why Mr S has 
said he started gambling, I dont intend to comment on that, or NatWests handling of the 
scam claim, which had already been considered under a previous complaint.
Mr S says he called NatWest to tell it about his issues with gambling in May or June 2021, 
but theres no evidence to support this. He has also said NatWest would have known he was 
vulnerable from comments he made when he complained about the scam claim. But banks 
are expected to intervene if consumers make payments that are suspicious or unusual and 
we wouldnt expect it to stop payments simply because a consumer has said they are 
suffering from mental health issues.
Ive thought about whether NatWest should have done anything to prevent Mr S from making 
the payments. Gambling is a legitimate activity so we wouldnt expect it to intervene just 
because he was making payments for gambling or because he took out a loan. I accept 
there were days when the cumulative spend to gambling sites in one day was significant, but 
all the payments were to legitimate companies, the amounts had increased gradually over a 
period of eight months, and the largest payment was only £222. So, I dont think there would 
have been any reason for NatWest to intervene when he made the payments.  
Because of this, while Im sorry to hear Mr S has lost money and the effect this has had on 
him, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think NatWest is to blame for this and so I cant 
fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman