DRN-2567798
The complaint
Ms I and Mr Ts complaint relates to a claim they made under their home insurance policy, 
which is underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited. The damage claimed for was internal 
water damage which had entered their home because of storm damage to their roof. 
What happened
In the summer of 2020 Ms I and Mr T noticed water coming through their kitchen ceiling. 
They contacted Aviva to make a claim.
Aviva arranged for the damage to Ms I and Mr Ts home to be assessed by one of its 
representatives. It was concluded water had entered the property through a section of flat 
roof above the back door in the kitchen. The photographs taken at the time showed there 
was erosion to the pointing in the wall above the roof and the cement fillet between the wall 
and the lead flashing was missing in places. In relation to the flashings, there was an area 
where there was a gap between an area of the lead sheet forming the flat roof and the 
flashing, which meant the interior of the roof was exposed. There was also a crack in the 
roof sheet through which water could enter. There was also a downpipe from the main roof 
that discharged onto the flat roof.
The internal damage was to the ceiling in the kitchen. An area of suspended ceiling had 
been removed and ceiling tiles above it were shown to be peeling off the ceiling. There was 
also water staining and warping to other panels of the suspended ceiling closest to the back 
door. 
Aviva concluded the damage had occurred gradually over time because of gradual 
deterioration of the roof. It wasnt persuaded the internal damage was the result of a single 
incident. Overall it was satisfied the rainy conditions before the claim had merely highlighted 
the pre-existing problem. Aviva declined the claim.
Ms I and Mr T werent happy with Avivas conclusions and complained. They said they 
couldnt have been aware of the problems with the roof and so it was unfair for Aviva to 
decline the claim.  
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint as it wasnt persuaded the damage claimed for was as a 
result of a one-off incident of storm. It also said the escape of water cover wouldnt assist in 
the situation because the water that caused the damage had to be coming from a fixed water 
installation within the home. Ms I and Mr T remained unhappy about Avivas rejection of their 
claim and asked this service to consider their complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Ms I and Mr T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They explained that it rained 
heavily, whether that was a storm or not, and damage was caused. They asked that the 
complaint be re-examined as Avivas surveyor has said they couldnt have known about the 
damage to the roof as it is above eye level, and they based their claim on that. They also 
considered that whether the water came from a boiler or other equipment, there was an 
escape of water into their kitchen via their roof.
When our investigator didnt change her mind, Ms I and Mr T asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman, as is their right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I and Mr T have what is normally referred to as a perils-based insurance policy. This is 
one where cover is only provided for specific events, such as storm or fire. If damage occurs 
to their home because of something other than one of the perils occurring, the policy wont 
cover the damage. It is not a maintenance policy, so a policyholder remains responsible for 
ensuring their home is kept in good condition and completing any maintenance repairs that 
are necessary from time to time. 
As I have said above, not all things that happen to a home are covered by insurance policies 
such as this one. The damage to the roof that allowed the water to enter the property was 
clearly maintenance related  cement fillets will over time deteriorate and need to be 
replaced. The crack in the lead roofing sheet would also indicate it had deteriorated due to 
age and needed replacing. There is no evidence that indicates the damage to either the roof 
or the interior of Ms I and Mr Ts home was caused by an insured peril such as storm. 
I note that Ms I and Mr T have questioned whether the escape of water peril would cover the 
claim. As has already been explained, this peril only covers water damage if that water has 
escaped from inside a pipe or piece of equipment. The water that damaged Ms I and Mr Ts 
home didnt escape from anywhere  it was rainwater from outside the building entering it 
through a damaged section of the roof. 
I know that Ms I and Mr T are disappointed that their claim wasnt covered, but I cant find 
that Aviva did anything wrong when it declined the claim for the reasons it did. 
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Ms I and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
24 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman