DRN-2392507
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions, which she says 
she didnt authorise.
What happened
Miss M opened an account with an online gambling merchant in January 2018. She later 
registered with GAMSTOP to have herself excluded from gambling websites. However, from 
August to October 2018, there were multiple payments to the gambling merchant, totalling 
£1,400. 
Miss M said she didnt authorise these payments. She said she contacted the merchant and 
told it that shed registered with GAMSTOP. She said the merchant agreed to refund her and 
advised her to contact her bank.
Miss M contacted Santander. It decided to treat her complaint as a request for a chargeback 
and not as a complaint about unauthorised transactions. In line with its chargeback 
procedure, it sent Miss M a form asking for details about the transactions and the merchant. 
It sent the form to her registered address twice, but she didnt return it. By the time Miss M 
chased Santander for a response, the time limit for raising a chargeback had expired. 
Santander said there was nothing more it could do for her. However, it paid her £50 for not 
returning her calls.
Miss M didnt think this was fair, so she asked this service to investigate her complaint. She 
said she hadnt authorised the transactions and the merchant had assured her she would get 
a refund, but it didnt pay up. As such, she said she hadnt received goods or services from 
the merchant and so Santander should refund her. She also said she believed the time limit 
for raising a chargeback claim was 540 days.
An investigator looked into her case, but he didnt uphold it. He felt unable to conclude that 
the transactions were unauthorised and considered it was more likely than not that Miss M 
had made them herself.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators view.  She said shes unhappy at how Santander 
treated her and less concerned about the loss of money, although she maintained that she 
hadnt authorised the transactions. She said it had told her twice it would post the forms out 
to her, but it never did. 
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator.
In short, Santander is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Miss M liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. Miss M says 
she didnt make the disputed payments. So, my primary concern is to come to a view about 
whether or not I think she authorised the transactions.
Our investigator contacted the merchant. It confirmed that her debit card was used to deposit 
funds in her account. Her bank statements also show that her debit card was used. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that the use of the debit card is not, on its own, enough 
to enable Santander to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Miss M made the transactions. I realise she said 
she didnt authorise them, but Im afraid the evidence suggests that she did. 
The merchant confirmed that in order to make the deposits, the person needed to log into 
her account using her login details and password, enter the card details in full to register the 
card, select the amount of the deposit, and authorise the deposit by entering the CVC code 
for each deposit. 
Theres no evidence someone else had opened the account or was using it. And Miss M 
hasnt said whether she shared her login details and password with anyone else. I 
understand that only she had access to the account and her card, which means only she 
couldve made the payments.
Also, her bank statements show that she made multiple transfers into her current account 
around the time of the disputed transactions. The dates and amounts of the transfers are set 
out in the investigators view so I wont repeat them here. The timings match the dates of the 
disputed payments. This strongly suggests that the transfers were funding the disputed 
payments. Miss M doesnt deny making those transfers and so its reasonable to conclude 
she was funding those transactions.
Santander sent us its mobile banking log for her account. The log shows that she was 
logging into her mobile banking frequently throughout August 2018 to October 2018. She 
was making online payments and the bank transfers. So, she wouldve seen the disputed 
transactions. However, she didnt raise any concerns with the bank until late October 2018.
Taking this evidence into account, I think its more likely than not that Miss M made the 
disputed transactions and that she authorised them. Santander is entitled, therefore, to hold 
her liable for them.
Chargeback
On reviewing the file, I think this complaint is really about whether Santander shouldve 
raised a chargeback. And based on her emails, its my belief Miss M accepts she made the 
payments but is aggrieved that the merchant didnt block her from its website after shed 
registered with GAMSTOP and after agreeing to refund her.
Santander said it didnt raise a chargeback claim because the time limit had expired. Miss M 
said this was because the bank didnt send her the forms. And she thought the time limit 
expired after 540 days. However, Ive seen copies of two letters sent to her home address on 8 and 28 November 2018. Miss M confirmed this was her address in an email dated 1 
June 2020. She didnt mention any problems with her post, so Ive no reason to believe she 
didnt receive those letters. 
Santander also referred to its website which says-
A chargeback must be raised within 120 days of the transaction or the date the 
goods/service were expected, or from the date that you became aware that you would not 
receive the goods/service (as long as it is not more than 540 days from the transaction 
date).
Miss M received the services when she made the payments. So, she had 120 days to raise 
a chargeback claim. The longer time limit of 540 days only applies to goods or services or 
events due to happen later, for example, a concert or holiday.
Im satisfied, therefore, that Miss M didnt raise a chargeback claim within the time limits. But 
even if she had, I think Miss Ms claim wouldve failed anyway.
The merchant told us it had asked Miss M to provide evidence that shed registered with 
GAMSTOP. She sent it a screenshot showing she had registered on 14 March 2018. The 
merchant contacted GAMSTOP. GAMSTOP advised that Miss M didnt register for self-
exclusion until November 2018 and there was no registration in place from March 2018 to 
October 2018, as she suggested. Moreover, GAMSTOP confirmed that she couldnt have 
registered in March 2018 because this facility wasnt available until late April 2018.
Also, Miss M sent Santander and this service a screenshot of an email, which she said she 
received from the merchant, confirming it would refund her. The merchant said it didnt send 
this email. It confirmed it sent her an email with the same date and time, but its email told her 
it needed more evidence of self-exclusion before investigations could be taken further. It said 
there was no agreement to repay any monies. Ive seen a screenshot of that email. The two 
emails are identical save for the content of the messages. Im afraid I think the screenshot 
she sent us is a forgery.
Based on this information, Im afraid, I dont find Miss Ms version of events to be to be 
persuasive or plausible. In conclusion, I dont think Miss M was registered with GAMSTOP 
when the payments were made to the merchant. I think she authorised the payments and 
received services from the merchant. For these reasons, I dont consider that her 
chargeback claim wouldve been successful or that Santander has treated her unfairly. I 
wont be asking it to refund her.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss M. I understand she is in financial 
difficulties and her gambling activities might have influenced her actions. I still expect 
Santander to treat her positively and sympathetically with any requests for financial 
assistance and I hope she gets the help and support which she needs.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman