DRN-3838476
The complaint
 Mrs S has complained that not all of the contributions being paid into her Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited pension by her employer are showing on her pension plan statements. 
She is therefore concerned that her employer contributions have not been invested properly 
into her pension.
What happened
 Mrs S has a pension plan with Aviva. Pension contributions made by her, together with 
contributions from her employer, have been paid into the pension plan every month since it 
was set up. Mrs S has said that there has been a problem with her employers pension 
contributions not showing correctly on her pension statements. She says that this has been 
a problem for a number of years and that she has raised this issue with Aviva, but the error 
hasnt been corrected. 
In July 2021 Aviva sent a statement to Mrs S which listed out all her personal contributions 
and contributions paid by Mrs Ss employer into her pension plan from September 2000 to 
December 2013 inclusive.
Mrs S made a complaint by email to Aviva in August 2021. She complained that the 
statements that she received from Aviva were not showing all of the contributions being paid 
into her pension by her employer. 
Aviva replied to Mrs Ss complaint email in August 2021. Aviva said that they had forwarded 
details of the complaint to their technical team, so that they could investigate what had 
happened.
In early October 2021 Aviva contacted Mrs S to tell her that her complaint was being 
reviewed, but they werent able to give her a decision yet.
A few days later, in October 2021, Aviva contacted Mrs S again. Aviva said that a ticket 
had been logged with their IT department to get the problem with the pension statements 
resolved. Aviva explained that unfortunately the problem had not yet been fixed, but theyd 
been in contact with their IT department to try and get an expected timescale. Aviva also 
said that theyd contact Mrs S again when the problem had been fixed. In order to say sorry 
for the inconvenience caused, Aviva offered Mrs S a payment of £100. 
Mrs S then subsequently took her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in early 
2022. 
In May 2022 Aviva sent Mrs S a statement of all contributions paid into her pension from 
January 2014 to May 2022 inclusive.
In July 2022 an investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service contacted Aviva to ask 
for proof that all of the pension contributions paid by Mrs Ss employer had been correctly 
applied to her pension. 
As no reply was received from Aviva the investigator wrote again to Aviva in August 2022 to 
ask for the information that had been requested. Specifically, the investigator asked Aviva to 
confirm:
that the IT issue that was causing Mrs Ss employer contributions to be shown 
incorrectly had been resolved;
that the lack of employer contributions on Mrs Ss online statements was just an IT 
error and that all of her employer contributions have been applied correctly to her 
pension plan;
and that if Mrs Ss past employer contributions had been applied correctly, then to 
provide the transaction dates showing this and the subsequent investment dates into 
her chosen funds.
As no reply was received from Aviva the investigator issued their view, which upheld Mrs Ss 
complaint. As no subsequent reply was received from Aviva, Mrs Ss complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman.
In early February 2023 Aviva replied to the investigator. Aviva explained that they were still 
investigating the reasons why the employer contributions were not showing correctly on Mrs 
Ss statements. They had not been able to identify the cause of this issue, nor did they have 
an end date on when they would be able to identify the cause. They did however say that 
they now think that this is due to an issue with the way that the statement is set out, rather 
than a technical issue. 
With their reply Aviva enclosed a spreadsheet which set out the investment transactions for 
both personal and employer contributions paid into Mrs Ss pension from September 2021 to 
January 2023. 
Aviva also increased their offer to Mrs S from £100 to £200 in compensation for the ongoing 
issues caused.
In early February 2023 Aviva were asked by the investigator to provide a further spreadsheet 
which sets out the investment transactions for both personal and employer contributions paid 
into Mrs Ss pension prior to September 2021. No reply has been received from Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When Aviva wrote to Mrs S in October 2021 they acknowledged that there was a problem 
with Mrs Ss pension statements. They further explained that this problem had been logged 
with their IT department, and that theyd confirm to Mrs S when the issue had been resolved. 
Its now evident the issue with her pension statements has not yet been resolved.
From the statements that Aviva sent to Mrs S in July 2021 and May 2022, which combined 
all contributions paid into Mrs Ss pension from September 2000 to May 2022 inclusive, it 
appears that all of the contributions paid by Mrs Ss employer were received by Aviva and 
have been credited to Mrs Ss pension plan. 
My conclusion from these statements is that Aviva did receive all of the pension 
contributions paid by Mrs Ss employer over this period. Aviva were however asked in August 2022 to provide evidence that these contributions were correctly invested into the 
investment funds held in Mrs Ss pension.
In February 2023 Aviva did provide a spreadsheet to show when and how her personal and 
employer contributions since September 2021 had been invested into Mrs Ss pension. 
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied the contributions received between September 2021 
and January 2023 inclusive were invested by Aviva when they were received, but Aviva 
have not provided a similar spreadsheet for pension contributions that Mrs S and her 
employer paid prior to September 2021. 
The issue with Mrs Ss statements has not yet been resolved. Aviva said in October 2021 
that a ticket had been logged with their IT team to resolve the issue with Mrs Ss pension 
statements. More recently said that this may be due to an issue with the way that the 
statements are laid out. Whatever the reason, this issue has still not been resolved by Aviva 
and they are unable to give a timescale on when it will be resolved. This is disappointing and 
unacceptable.
Mrs S is due to retire in Spring 2023. She will then be taking retirement benefits from her 
Aviva pension plan. Mrs S said that she already had arranged a meeting with a financial 
adviser to discuss her retirement plans but decided to postpone this because of her 
concerns over the accuracy of the information provided by Aviva.
I think that Mrs S is entitled to receive correct and accurate pension plan statements from 
Aviva, and for Aviva to correct any issues and mistakes that were being made in these 
statements as quickly as possible.
 
Mrs S understandably wanted reassurance from Aviva in advance of her retirement that 
theyd investigated the issues that she had raised and could confirm that all employer and 
personal contributions paid into her plan had been invested correctly. 
Whilst more recently some of this information has been forthcoming, I dont think that this 
confirmation has been fully received as only information on pension contributions received 
from September 2021 has been provided by Aviva. And the issue with her pension 
statements remains unresolved.
 
I am therefore upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Putting things right
Aviva need to resolve the issue causing the errors in Mrs Ss pension statements. Given this 
has been ongoing for at least 1.5 years, I would now expect this to be treated with utmost 
priority, given the proximity to Mrs Ss planned retirement. 
Given the time that Aviva has already had to resolve this issue, I think that its reasonable 
that Aviva does now resolve this problem, and that they confirm to Mrs S that this work has 
been successfully completed, no later than 31 March 2023. 
I also think that Aviva needs to provide Mrs S with a spreadsheet which confirms that 
pension contributions paid by Mrs S and her employer prior to 1 September 2021 have been 
correctly invested. This should include information at least from 2016 onwards. This 
spreadsheet can be in the same format that Aviva used when they provided information in 
early February in respect of pension contributions paid between September 2021 and 
January 2023.As Aviva have already been asked for this information, I think that its reasonable that they 
provide this spreadsheet to Mrs S no later than 14 March 2023. If Aviva discovers that 
contributions werent added at the correct time to her pension, they should calculate the 
difference to her pension if the contributions had been added correctly.
Finally, I think that its fair and reasonable for Aviva to compensate Mrs S for the distress 
and inconvenience that she has suffered as a result of their errors. Aviva offered Mrs S a 
payment of £100 in October 2021, which was subsequently increased to £200 in February 
2023.
However, not all of the issues in Mrs Ss complaint have been resolved. Mrs S is soon to 
retire and has had to delay taking financial advice on her retirement plans. I think that a 
payment of £300 is a more reasonable amount to reflect the inconvenience that Mrs S has 
suffered. This should be paid to her within two weeks of Aviva receiving Mrs Ss acceptance 
of this final decision.
If the timescales above are not adhered to, Aviva should pay Mrs S additional compensation 
of £150 compensating her for the frustration and distress of even further delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited pays £300 to Mrs S and that they 
complete the actions detailed above within the timescales specified above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman