DRN-3224537
The complaint
For several years, Mrs T and Mr T have held a packaged bank account, called a Premier 
account with TSB Bank plc. TSB charges them a monthly fee for the Premier account and 
provides several potential benefits in return. 
Mrs T and Mr T originally held the Premier account with another bank (the other bank) which 
sold some of its business to form TSB as part of a demerger. They have complained that 
since the demerger TSB has eroded the benefits of the Premier account and increased its 
cost to them compared to the other bank. They think this is unfair. 
Mrs T and Mr T have told us that they would like ... to be transferred to (the other bank) on 
the terms that (they) would have received were (they) assigned to (the other bank) at the 
time of the demerger. However, they have also said that would accept other forms of 
redress from TSB, including financial compensation.
What happened
During the financial crisis of 2009, the UK government provided financial help to the other 
bank. The European Commission considered this to be state aid and the government told 
the other bank to split its business into two. The other bank therefore sold some of its retail 
banking network to create TSB. Some of the other banks branches were allocated to TSB 
and customers with accounts at those branches were then usually assigned to TSB. This 
happened to Mrs T and Mr T.
One of our adjudicators has already considered this complaint and didnt think that TSB had 
acted unfairly. Mrs T and Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mrs T and Mr T and TSB have told us or sent us about the 
case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
The crux of Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint is that they believe they would have been better off if 
they had been assigned to the other bank rather than TSB. They have highlighted a few 
examples of this. In outline, their examples have included: 
When they were with the other bank, they could avoid the monthly fee by keeping a 
certain amount of money in their account, through an arrangement called a fee 
waiver. They have told us that TSB withdrew the fee waiver when the other bank 
didnt. 
When they were with the other bank, one of the benefits of the Premier account was 
insurance for home emergencies. They have told us that TSB withdrew this cover 
when the other bank didnt.
I accept that TSB made changes like this. I will not make any judgement on whether the 
other bank would have offered a better or worse service to Mrs and Mr T than TSB, but I fully 
accept that they genuinely believe that they would have been better off if they had been 
assigned to the other bank in 2013. But, the two critical things for me to decide here are 
whether TSB treated them fairly when they were assigned to it and whether TSB was 
entitled to make changes to the Premier account in the way they have described. 
Did TSB treat Mrs T and Mr T fairly at the time of the demerger ? 
The way in which Mrs T and Mr T were allocated to TSB was a largely administrative 
process. The procedure did not generally take the preferences of individual customers for 
TSB or the other bank into account. But this was in line with the requirements of the 
demerger. 
Mrs T and Mr T have told us that they would have preferred to stay with the other bank and 
were told they could do so, but only by closing their TSB account and reopening a new 
account (probably not a Premier account) with the other bank. I accept this, but again it was 
part of the demerger process and I dont think TSB did anything significantly wrong or 
treated Mrs T and Mr T unfairly. 
Was TSB entitled to change the benefits of the Premier account? 
Mrs T and Mr T have told us that at the time of the demerger there was an implicit 
commitment at the time, when it was publicly stated that the product details in the Terms and 
Conditions would remain the same, that customers would not be detrimentally affected 
regardless of the bank they were assigned to. To support their case, Mrs T and Mr T have 
sent us a document from a government committee and referred to other government offices 
which they believe demonstrate this commitment. They believe that TSB broke the 
commitment when it made the changes they have described. 
However, the purpose of the demerger was to establish TSB as a new bank, separate from 
the other bank with its own commercial freedom. I do not believe there was any intent, 
explicit or implicit, that TSB and the other bank would continue to offer the same products at 
the same price indefinitely. TSB was set up to operate as a separate commercial 
organisation. It follows that TSB could adjust the benefits and the fees of the Premier 
account without reference to the other bank as this is part of its commercial freedom. 
Before TSB made the changes which Mrs T and Mr T have described, I would have 
expected it to give them notice about what it was doing and remind them of their option to 
change accounts if they no longer wanted the Premier account. TSB seems to have done 
this. For example, Mrs T and Mr T have told us that they  accept that due notice was given 
of the fee-waiver removal. So, I think TSB treated them fairly when it changed the benefits 
of the Premier account and removed the fee waiver. 
Finally, as I mentioned above, Mrs T and Mr T have told us that what they really want is for 
the other bank to reinstate their Premier account for them with the same cost and benefits 
that applied at the time of the demerger. However, as TSB and the other bank now operate 
separately, this is not something TSB could arrange. Similarly, even if I had found that TSB 
had treated Mrs T and Mr T unfairly, as part of this complaint I wouldnt have been able to 
tell the other bank to do this for them. Mrs T and Mr T are free to contact the other bank 
about this if they so wish, but I cant give them any advice about this or predict how the other 
bank many respond. Nor can I tell if any complaint about the other bank which they may subsequently wish to bring to us would fall inside or outside the rules and time limits about 
which complaints we can consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint about 
TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman