DRN-3995774
The complaint
Ms B complains about credit granted to her by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. 
Ms B has brought her complaint via a claims management company but for simplicity Ill 
refer to her throughout.
What happened
Moneybarn agreed credit for Ms B in June 2016 and again in April 2020 to finance a car. 
The credit was granted under a condition sale agreement each time. 
The cash price of the car Ms B acquired in 2016 was £6,990. The total amount owing 
under this agreement came to £12,344 including interest and charges. Ms B paid an 
advance of £310 and the remainder was to be repaid by 46 instalments of £262  (figures 
rounded). This agreement was fully repaid by April 2020. 
The cash price of the car Ms B acquired in 2020 was £10,950. The total amount owing 
under this agreement came to £20,023 including interest and charges. Ms B paid an 
advance of £1,238 and the remainder was to be repaid by 59 instalments of £318  (figures 
rounded). This agreement was settled early and closed in April 2022. 
Ms B said that Moneybarn didnt carry out reasonable checks before agreeing credit for 
her on either occasion. She said that she had adverse information on her credit file and 
was dependent on credit and Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to her. 
Moneybarn said that it carried out all the necessary checks before entering into the 
agreements. It confirmed Ms Bs income, estimated her expenditure and checked her 
credit file before agreeing credit for her in 2016. Before agreeing credit in 2020 Moneybarn 
checked Ms Bs credit file again. Moneybarn said Ms B passed all the necessary checks 
and it wasnt irresponsible to have agreed credit for her on either occasion. 
Ms B referred her complaint to us and our investigator looked into what happened. They 
found that Moneybarn should have carried out a more comprehensive affordability 
assessment than it did before entering into each agreement with Ms B. However, they 
also found that further checks wouldnt have shown the credit to be unaffordable for Ms B 
on either occasion so didnt recommend that her complaint be upheld. 
Ms B didnt agree with this recommendation. She asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman for a review and its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Moneybarn lent to Ms B. Its 
rules and guidance said that before agreeing credit for her, Moneybarn needed to check 
that she could afford to meet her repayments sustainably, without experiencing adverse 
consequences. In other words without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness, 
without having to borrow further, and while meeting her other debt payments and other 
normal outgoings. These checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit 
(the amount and term, for example) and to Ms Bs particular circumstances. 
Ultimately, Moneybarn needed to treat Ms B fairly and take full account of her interests 
when making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers 
with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Moneybarn complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Ms Bs applications to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments sustainably? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown? Would this information have led to the credit being 
declined? Ultimately, did Moneybarn make fair lending decisions?
Moneybarn provided the information it relied on including information from Ms Bs 
applications, her payslips and her credit file. Ms B provided her bank statements for the 
time of the lending in 2016 and 2020 and a recent copy of her credit file. 
2016 agreement
Moneybarn recorded that Ms B was employed and earned £1,508 a month on average. It 
checked two payslips from May and June 2016 which showed Ms Bs take home pay was 
£1,336 and £1,680 respectively. Moneybarn estimated Ms Bs expenditure and checked 
her credit file. It said Ms Bs borrowing levels met its lending criteria, but hasnt provided a 
copy of the information it relied on. It did provide a high level summary which showed 
Ms B had little debt and although there was a defaulted amount of £1,600 from 2013 this 
had reduced by the time of this agreement. 
I havent seen evidence that Moneybarn gathered information about Ms Bs usual 
outgoings or verified these. I think it ought to have done so in this case, given that Ms Bs 
income varied and she would need to meet a repayment for four years which could take 
up 20% of her wages. Ive concluded that Moneybarn didnt take reasonable steps to 
assess whether the credit would have been affordable for Ms B in a sustainable manner 
over the agreement term. 
Ms B provided us with her bank statements from the time and Ive reviewed these. To be 
clear Im not suggesting that this is the information Moneybarn should have sought but I 
think its reasonable to rely on these to understand what a proportionate check might have 
revealed about Ms Bs finances. These confirm Ms Bs income level and show that she 
spent about £850 on her rent and bills. This left an average of £650 to meet her payment 
to Moneybarn of £262 and any other usual costs such as food and fuel. 
Ms B provided a current copy of her credit file and I can see that she took out other credit 
during 2017 and had problems repaying a utility bill. However, prior to the agreement it 
seems Ms B had little debt and the loan repayments would be affordable for her. I think 
further checks would have reassured Moneybarn that providing this credit wouldnt impact 
adversely on Ms B and it would have proceeded with the agreement. So I cant find that 
Moneybarn was irresponsible to have done so based on the information it had available. 
2020 agreement
Ms Bs credit file shows that throughout 2017 Moneybarn reported arrears of one or two months in relation to her 2016 agreement. I understand that Ms B lost her job towards the 
end of 2016 and it took a few months before she was able to meet her full repayments 
again. Moneybarn set up a payment plan for the arrears to run alongside the usual 
repayments and there was no adverse information reported from 2018 onwards.
When Ms B applied for credit again, Moneybarn checked her credit file. It hasnt provided 
a copy of this but said that Ms B had one County Court Judgment (CCJ) dated 12 months 
prior to her application and the most recently defaulted account was seven months prior. 
Moneybarn recorded Ms Bs income as £1,800 and her expenditure as £860 but I havent 
seen any evidence that Moneybarn verified these figures. Given that Ms B would need to 
meet her repayments of £318 over five years and it seemed had recent difficulty meeting 
her existing debts, I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have looked 
into her circumstances further before agreeing to lend to her again. Ive concluded that 
Moneybarn didnt take reasonable steps to assess whether Ms B would be able to meet 
her repayments for this agreement without experiencing financial difficulty or other 
adverse consequences.
Ms B provided us with her bank statements from the time and Ive reviewed these. Again - 
Im not suggesting that this is the information Moneybarn should have sought but I think 
its reasonable to rely on these to understand what a proportionate check might have 
revealed about Ms Bs finances. These confirm Ms Bs income level and show that she 
spent about £900 on her rent and bills. This left an average of £900 to meet her payment 
to Moneybarn of £318 and any other usual costs such as food and fuel.
Ive looked again at Ms Bs credit file to see what debts she had at that time. As 
mentioned Ms B had incurred a CCJ and a recent default. She had other defaults from 
2018 and 2019, some of which were with debt collection companies. She also had arrears 
on a short term loan and, as mentioned, a utility account. These debts amounted to 
around £2,000. Ms B was also borrowing from two high cost lenders at the time and had 
some buy-now pay-later borrowing. Altogether, it seems that Ms B was having some 
problems managing her finances. 
However, I dont think this means that Moneybarn would have automatically declined to 
lend to Ms B. While she had some defaults and arrears, she also had a good repayment 
history with Moneybarn and her bank statements dont indicate that she was dependent 
on borrowing. It is true that she was having some problems managing her existing debts 
however, her level of existing debt wasnt so great relative to her means that it was 
unlikely shed be able to repay these debts while meeting her repayments for this new 
agreement. Altogether, I cant say that Moneybarn treated Ms B unfairly or was 
irresponsible to have entered into this agreement with her based on the information it had. 
In summary
Ive concluded that although Moneybarn ought to have found out more about Ms Bs 
finances before lending to her on either occasion, further information wouldnt have led to 
declines. I cant find that it was wrong of Moneybarn to lend with the information it had and 
I dont think it treated her unfairly. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms B 
but I am not upholding her complaint about Moneybarn. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am not upholding Ms Bs complaint about Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited and dont require it to take any action regarding this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman