DRN-3120064
The complaint
Miss R complains about National Savings and Investments (NSI)s processes.
What happened
Miss R had some premium bonds which were bought for her by her father when she was 
under 16. She was now older and wanted to establish an online account with NSI in her own 
name  so she could invest on her own. But she was told by NSI that to register for online 
services, she needed to complete a registration form  which needed to be signed and 
witnessed by someone who was not a member of her family.
Miss R is represented by her father, but I will refer to Miss R in the decision, as she is the 
complainant here. She complained that it was unreasonable for NSI to ask for a signature of 
a witness  as this was a risk under the COVID-19 measures. She suggested that NSI align 
their records with the Post Office and DVLA  which would mean they didnt need to ask for 
a witness signature. She also said shed spent over 30 minutes on the phone when calling 
NSI.
NSI said they advised customers in Miss Rs situation to send the registration form without 
the witnessed signature. They said their security procedures were of the highest importance 
but noted Miss Rs suggestion about using the Post Office and DVLA. NSI apologised for the 
long wait times that Miss R experienced  this was due to the pandemic, which meant they 
were operating with smaller teams which affected their normal timescales.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said NSI had dealt with her complaint 
reasonably. She said that it wasnt our role to ask a business to change its processes.
Miss R asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. She said that she looked at the 
NSIs website at the time of NSIs final response  and it said a witnessed signature was still 
required. She said that the pandemic couldnt be used as an excuse for the long wait times 
on the phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Rs complaint is that in January 2021 - she was asked by NSI to complete a 
registration form to access their online services  but this had to be signed by a third party 
witness (and not a member of her family). She said that this wasnt a reasonable thing to ask 
in the light of the social distancing restrictions in place. She said that the wait times on the 
phone were too long. And she suggested that it would be sensible for NSI to use signatures 
from the Post Office or DVLA  if NSI did that, then such a process wouldnt be needed.
Our investigator is right  we cant ask businesses to change their processes. But our role is 
to ensure that customers are treated reasonably and fairly in the circumstances of their 
complaint. And so - Ive considered Miss Rs complaint in the light of this. 
The issue here is that NSI had processes in place which meant Miss R needed to complete 
a registration form and have it witnessed by a third party. On the one hand, NSI say that 
their process was necessary  to ensure the security of their business, and to protect 
customers. On the other hand, Miss R argues that it wasnt a reasonable thing to ask  
because of the social distancing requirements of the pandemic. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) made several announcements during the pandemic  
which covered how they expected businesses like NSI to act. And  the FCA said that while 
online services were to be encouraged, firms (such as NSI) should continue to be vigilant 
about security breaches. The FCA were concerned there would be more fraud and scams. In 
other words, the FCA expected firms to continue to maintain their standards of security  
rather than relax them. And so, in the light of this guidance, I dont think we could say that 
NSI acted unreasonably in continuing to ask for a witnesss signature to the registration 
document.
In NSIs final response  they said they would accept a document which wasnt witnessed. 
But Miss R then said to us  and showed us evidence - that NSIs website wasnt changed to 
say that. We asked NSI about that  and they said that this wasnt a general change they 
made  but it was something they offered to some customers if they raised concerns  as 
Miss R had. I think that shows that NSI are willing to be flexible in certain circumstances, but 
that doesnt mean that they have to make wider changes to their processes and systems. 
That would be something for NSI to decide.
The FCA also said they encouraged customers to use online services. And because of the 
pandemic, there was a large increase in calls to financial firms. Unfortunately, this took place 
at the same time as many staff were sick and off work  or working from home. And 
businesses needed to adjust how they provide telephone services as a result. It was 
unfortunate that this led to long waiting times for customers of many businesses  including 
NSI. I can accept that by the time Miss R called NSI  in January 2021  that she might have 
expected things to be sorted out, but NSI have said they were still experiencing difficulties. I 
accept that Miss R was frustrated by this, but NSI have explained why customers had to wait 
longer and its a reasonable explanation. So I dont think itd be fair for me to say that they 
need to do any more in this respect.
Ive then considered Miss Rs suggestion of using the signatures held by the Post Office and 
DVLA. NSI has explained that they dont do this as part of their process or systems. Thats a 
decision theyre entitled to make as a business and not one this service can make them 
change. NSI has explained that it has noted Miss Rs suggestion and that is as much as Id 
expect it to do here. 
I appreciate that Miss Rs experience was frustrating for her  but I dont think NSI acted 
unreasonably and therefore I dont uphold her complaint.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman