DRN-2978220
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) ignored a request to 
settle a third partys claim on his motor insurance policy without prejudice  which stopped 
him pursuing his own claim through the court.  
What happened
 At the end of 2018, Mr M was involved in a collision with another vehicle.  Both vehicles 
were damaged and parties in both cars suffered some injuries.  Both drivers felt the other 
was responsible for the collision.
Mr M chose not to make a claim on the motor insurance policy he had with Calpe.  But he 
consulted solicitors about claiming against the third party.  The solicitors wrote to Calpe 
confirming their instructions and asking them to:
take no action that may prejudice [Mr Ms] claim and request that you do not make any 
open admission of liability without first confirming your position, in writing to us and allowing 
us the opportunity to consider and comment upon your stance.
Despite receiving this request, Calpe ultimately settled a claim from the third party on an 
open basis.  This meant that Mr M  who had commenced court proceedings against the 
third partys insurer  had to discontinue his claim.
Mr Ms solicitors complained to Calpe on his behalf.  They said that Calpe had been asked 
not to prejudice Mr Ms claim by admitting liability.  But, rather than settle on a without 
prejudice basis, Calpe had accepted liability through the road traffic accidents claims portal.  
As a result, Mr M had been forced to discontinue his own claim.
Calpe rejected Mr Ms complaint.  They said theyd concluded that, had this claim gone to 
court, Mr M wouldve been held liable for the accident.  And that, under the terms of the 
policy, they were entitled to settle a third party claim, even if Mr M disagreed with that 
decision.
Mr M didnt accept Calpes response and instructed his solicitors to refer the complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Calpe shouldve done more to resolve 
it.  He accepted Calpe were entitled to the view that Mr M wouldve been held liable for the 
collision if the matter had gone to court.  But he said that theyd been put on notice that Mr M 
wanted any settlement to be paid on a without prejudice basis so he could pursue his own 
claim.  And Calpes action stopped Mr M doing that.
The investigator noted that Mr M had intended to claim for personal injuries.  He couldnt say 
whether that claim wouldve been successful  but he had lost the opportunity to pursue it.  
The investigator thought Mr M should receive £350 compensation for that lost opportunity.  
And he said Mr M should be reimbursed the court costs hed paid  which amounted to 
£1,600.
Calpe replied, saying because theyd settled the claim using the portal, there was no option 
to settle the claim on a without prejudice basis.  And to settle without prejudice wouldve 
increased costs, which were ultimately recoverable from Mr M under the excess.
Because Calpe didnt agree with the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the relevant term in Mr Ms policy.  It says:
The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident or claim on 
Your behalf. The Underwriters will also exchange information with other parties involved with 
the incident or claim and to settle any claim or part of the claim without reference to the 
Insured Person. If there is a dispute between the Underwriters and the Insured Person, the 
settlement of the claim shall be as if it were made with the agreement of the Insured Person, 
regardless that such settlement may be made without admission of liability. We will settle all 
claims on the best terms available and keep the claim payment to a minimum as much as is 
possible.
That clause makes it clear Calpe can settle the claim.  But thats never been in issue.  What I 
have to consider is whether they acted fairly in settling the claim on the basis they did.
The clause above makes it clear Calpe have the option to settle without admitting liability.  
And Ive seen their notes, which show staff checked whether to pay the third party on a 
without prejudice basis and were told not to.  So Im satisfied the open settlement was made 
deliberately, not as an oversight.
And I dont think that was fair.  I accept the term allows Calpe to settle.  But that doesnt 
mean they can disregard what theyve been told.  Mr Ms solicitors had put Calpe on notice 
early in the claim that hed be pursuing his own action.  Their decision prevented him from 
doing that.  So I think they should provide Mr M with redress.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about what Calpe should do to put things right.  The complaint referred 
to us by Mr Ms solicitors requested Calpe pay him the compensation he hoped to receive 
from his own court action.  But I cant be satisfied that, if Mr M had been able to pursue it, 
the claim would have been successful.  So its not fair for me to say Calpe should pay Mr M 
what he would have claimed in the action.
But I do think Calpe should pay Mr M compensation for losing the opportunity to pursue his 
claim.  I agree with our investigator that £350 is the right amount for this.
And Im satisfied Mr M spent money on court fees for the action hes now unable to pursue.  
Ive seen an issue fee of £1,300 was paid on 7 November 2019.  And there were three 
further fees of £100 each paid on 6 November 2019, 1 October 2020 and 25 May 2021.  I 
think Calpe should reimburse these costs.  And they should pay him interest, calculated at 
the rate of 8% per annum (simple), for the period he has been without those funds.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited and directing them to pay him:
£350 compensation for losing the opportunity to pursue his own claim against the 
third partys insurer;
£1,600 to reimburse him the court fees he paid, plus interest at the rate of 8% from 
the date the costs were incurred until the date of reimbursement.  If Calpe considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman