DRN-4009653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim for property damage 
under a landlords buildings insurance policy. 
Any references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in detail 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
On 1 November 2021, Mr and Mrs M made a claim with AXA for damage to a property 
owned by them. There were wet patches likely due to recent heavy rainfall. AXA responded 
to say it couldnt help as the weather conditions did not meet the definition of a storm on or 
shortly before the time of the claim. Mr M told AXA he wasnt happy with this and explained 
he didnt know what the cause was  it could be a leak. AXA agreed to send a surveyor to 
assess the damage.
The surveyor attended on 22 November. His report said there was no evidence of an insured 
peril. This is because the cause of damage to the inside of the property was unclear and so 
further investigation would be required by Mr and Mrs M to establish the cause. As a result, 
AXA declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M had sent the surveyor their own report but this didnt change his view. The 
surveyor said the images and videos from Mr and Mrs Ms report showed it was more likely 
poor workmanship by the neighbours' contractor.
Mr and Mrs M complained to AXA about its decision to decline their claim. It said the 
weather didnt cause the damage, it merely highlighted a pre-existing problem with the roof. 
It referred to Mr M then trying to change the peril to malicious damage due to a neighbour 
completing works poorly. However, as it agreed it had taken too long to respond to the 
complaint, it paid them £25 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with AXAs answer to their complaint and brought the matter to this 
service. Theyre unhappy with the service received and say this matter has increased their 
insurance premium significantly. Finally, Mr M says he didnt suggest changing the claim to 
malicious damage  the call handler asked him questions and made this change 
themselves.
The Investigator looked into matters. Ultimately, they thought Mr and Mrs M had been 
treated fairly when AXA declined the claim. So, they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They make several points including the following: 
They had no issues since buying the property in 2013 and held insurance with AXA 
since 2018. 
There was no reason for the tenant to delay in telling Mr and Mrs M about this nor 
them reporting this claim to AXA. However, the damage may have occurred when we 
were affected by the restrictions as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, there 
were wardrobes where the damaged walls were and so the damage wouldnt have 
been noticed as it was hidden.
Mr M spoke to a contractor who says the damage may have been caused by the 
neighbours works to the roof - which were before 2018/9 - without any signs being 
visible to Mr and Mrs M. 
The Investigator and Mr and Mrs M communicated about this but these points didnt change 
the Investigators view. This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must tell Mr and Mrs M that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim when they realised the inside of the property they rented out 
was water damaged on the ground floor. Initially, this was said to likely be due to heavy 
rainfall in the area. Later, Mr and Mrs M said they didnt know the cause, but it may have 
been an escape of water. More recently, they feel the cause may be the works to the 
connected roof and chimney carried out by the neighbour before 2018/9. This is because of 
the report they obtained themselves and a contractor they discussed this matter with.
The first place to start in a claims complaint like this is the insurance policy terms. Mr and 
Mrs Ms insurance policy covers the property for certain insured perils such as storm, fire or 
flood. To prove a valid claim under the policy, it is for the policyholders  here, Mr and Mrs M 
- to show that an insured event has occurred. Once this is shown, the underwriter must 
consider the claim, taking into account any exclusions in the policy. 
In the context of this matter, the policy sets out AXA will provide cover for the perils of storm, 
escape of water and malicious damage. Ive set out the relevant policy terms below.
4. Storm 
A period of violent weather defined as;
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), equivalent to 
storm force 10 of the Beaufort Scale, or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, or
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours, or
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.7. Escape of water from, or the freezing of water in washing machines, dishwashers 
or any fixed domestic water or heating installation.
So, to prove they have a valid claim, Mr and Mrs M must show the internal water damage 
(isolated to the ground floor) was more likely caused by one of the three insured risks as 
described above. Im not satisfied this has been done. Ill explain why taking each insured 
peril in turn. 
Storm
When we look at a storm claim complaint like this, there are three main issues we consider 
to decide whether the claim relates to damage caused by the insured event  here a storm  
and should therefore be met by the insurer. These are:
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer is generally able to 
reasonably decline the claim. 
In light of the evidence from the surveyor that the issue causing the internal damage had 
been ongoing for around 3  6 months at the time of his inspection in November and wasnt 
as a result of any insured peril, I dont think it likely the rainstorm in late October was 
responsible for this. Therefore, the claim fails at question 1.
Even if I thought this question was satisfied by an earlier storm, for example, the evidence 
doesnt show the internal water damage (isolated to the ground floor) is consistent with the 
sudden and unexpected damage a storm usually causes. Nor does the evidence from either 
party support a storm being the likely main cause of the damage which is being claimed for.
Escape of Water
The surveyor considered whether the internal damage was caused by an insured peril when 
he visited the property. He concluded There is no clear cause of damage, further 
investigations are required. I also note Mr and Mrs Ms contractor described a number of 
investigations he carried out  alongside a gas registered plumber  to find out what was 
causing the internal water damage, many of which related to a possible escape of water and 
ruled this out as the likely cause. So, I dont consider it likely the cause was an escape of 
water. 
Instead, the evidence from both parties suggests the likely cause is poor workmanship 
and/or wear and tear of the chimney, ridges, flashing and surrounding area. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this is an insured peril covered by Mr and Mrs Ms policy. And the 
policy specifically excludes cover for damage caused by works of renovation/alteration and 
wear and tear. 
Malicious damage
Although malicious damage isnt defined in the policy, I think its reasonable to say this 
wouldnt include poor quality workmanship unless it could be shown there was some 
intention of the neighbour (or their contractor)  for example - to cause the damage. I havent 
seen any such evidence in this case.Summary
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied AXAs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
was fair and reasonable based on the information available to it. This is because I dont 
consider Mr and Mrs M have demonstrated its more likely an insured event has occurred 
which has caused the internal water damage.
I think its important to note AXA investigated whether the cause of the damage was an 
insured peril through the surveyors visit and report. But I also wanted to acknowledge the 
time and effort Mr and Mrs M have spent to try to understand the cause of the damage and 
the thorough investigations their contractor carried out in pursuit of this. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the impact this matter has had on their 
premiums. I understand AXA explained this is because the claim was open. I havent seen 
anything to suggest this was unreasonable given the position of the claim when Mr and Mrs 
Ms policy was due to be renewed. However, if Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how this has 
been recorded once the claim has been finalised, it would need to be raised with AXA as a 
new complaint issue, giving it the opportunity to investigate and respond in the first instance.
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we 
 in trying to resolve their dispute with AXA  can do for them. I hope it helps them to know 
someone independent has looked at the matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman