DRN-3789004
The complaint
Mr A has complained, through a representative that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided him with a credit facility he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mr A approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in October 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr A was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr A was initially given a facility with a £250 on 31 October 2017. His limit was increased on 
a further two occasions with the final increase taking Mr As credit limit to £370 in April 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr As complaint and he thought SNC had made a 
reasonable decision to initially approve the facility for Mr A as well as when SNC increased 
Mr As credit limit. She also thought that there wasnt anything in the way that Mr A used the 
facility that wouldve given SNC cause for concern. So, she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr As representative didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
SNC didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr A wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr A this facility when it 
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules in 
place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the 
FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr A had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his 
bank statements, to allow SNC to monitor Mr As finances and to allow it to carry out 
additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr As expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr As facility was approved for £250 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr As income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for about 90 days preceding the facility being 
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr As income and expenditure was, 
after completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr A could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.  
SNC, using its own algorithm calculated that Mr As income was around £1,700 per month, 
with around £1,546 of that being salary with the rest being bank transfers. It also calculated 
Mr As expenditure amounted to around £1,128 leaving disposable income of £571 in which 
to afford the minimum repayment of £20 per month. The facility therefore looked affordable. 
However, Ive looked through the bank transaction data that SNC had access to prior to 
granting the facility to see whether there was anything within this data that may have shown 
it that the facility was unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr A. I do accept, like the adjudicator 
that at the start of the bank transaction data there were quite significant amounts of 
gambling, however, by the time the facility was approved, these had reduced in both size 
and number. Therefore, having looked at the data there isnt anything in my view that 
wouldve prevented SNC from providing the facility. 
Looking at the credits Mr A received each month, it seems the monthly income figure, as an 
average  as calculated by SNC is broadly correct. In addition, Mr A appeared to have had 
minimum monthly living costs  at most these were around £400 per month, but they 
decreased in the months leading up to the facility being granted, and it seems that in 
October 2017 he only had £150 of direct debits that were due to be paid. 
There were a lot of bank transfers between Mr A and what seems to be another one of his 
accounts. In addition, there are at times other payments to other third parties.  But given 
what was apparent in the bank transaction statement, I think SNC made a reasonable 
decision to provide the facility because the information it had suggested Mr A would be able 
to repay and service the facility. 
SNC also carried out a credit search and its provided a summary of the results. While SNC 
was aware that Mr A had used short term loan accounts, the bank transaction data SNC had 
access to, didnt indicate that Mr A was a current regular user of those sorts of loans. There 
also wasnt anything else in the results that may have led SNC to make further enquires or 
not approve the credit facility. 
Overall, based on a review of the transaction data and the credit file, there isnt anything that 
either in my view made the facility unaffordable or which wouldve prompted SNC to carry 
out further checks. Therefore, I think SNC made a reasonable decision to provide the facility. 
Monitoring the facility Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I have gone on to 
think about whether there was a point in the lending relationship that showed SNC, Mr A was 
likely having difficulties repaying the facility. Having done so, I dont think there was, and so 
this part of the complaint also isnt successful. 
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr As use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC had a good indication of Mr As actual financial position, because it 
continued to have read-only access to his bank account, so it had a good idea of his income 
and outgoings. 
As far as I can see there is nothing in the usage that wouldve prompted SNC to have 
thought that Mr A could no longer afford to repay or service the facility. 
Mr A had used the facility from October 2017 and February 2018. But it is worth saying that 
in this period, Mr A only drew down on the facility twice before fully repaying what he owed. 
Mr A then didnt use the facility again until January 2019.
When Mr A did return for further lending, he borrowed up to his limit on 4 January 2019 
before repaying it in full, and then Mr A made a drawdown again on 18 January 2019  again 
back up to his credit limit. Mr A then made a drawdown on the facility a further two occasions 
in February 2019. After this point, it seems that Mr A had some payment difficulties because 
SNC prevented him from drawing down any further  it seems from the statement of account 
the balance was fully repaid by January 2020. 
But I dont think this level of usage in terms of the amounts drawdown or the frequency of 
them wouldve indicated to SNC that Mr A was having financial difficulties. 
Ive also considered the information I can see in the bank transaction data from around this 
time, and there doesnt appear to have been a change in circumstances from when SNC 
approved the facility. Mr A While working for a different company Mr As earnings increased 
slightly to around £1,400 per month and Mr A was still transferring funds to and from at least 
one other account in his name. 
Therefore, based on the way that Mr A repaid the facility as well as the large gap in 2018 
when Mr A didnt use the facility as well as what SNC could see in the bank statements. I 
dont yet think it had reached the point where SNC wouldve thought that the facility was unaffordable or unsustainable for him. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman