DRN-4122376
The complaint
Mrs H says she was the victim of a purchase scam and that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, didnt do enough to stop that from happening or to recover her money.
What happened
Mrs H believed she was buying an airline ticket for £600 on 1 September 2022. She paid 
using her debit card and approved the payment using her online banking app. She did not 
notice the payee was not the travel company she thought she was communicating with, but 
a money transfer company.  When she did not receive confirmation of the flight she realised 
she had been scammed and called Halifax. 
It asked her to call back as the payment had not cleared, she did so and was told she would 
need to wait 15 days before a chargeback could be raised. 15 days later she was told a 
chargeback could not be raised as the money transfer company had provided the service it 
offered in line with its terms and conditions.
Mrs H says the money transfer company told her if Halifax had acted faster it might have 
been able to recover the £600. Halifax accepts it could have been clearer from the outset 
about the chargeback position but this wouldnt have changed the outcome.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said the transaction was not out of 
character for Mrs Hs account so Halifax did not need to intervene. The advice Mrs H 
received from the money transfer company about a refund was not correct.
Mrs H maintains that she could have rung the money transfer company and may have 
recovered the money if Halifax had not given her incorrect advice and made her wait two 
weeks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, banks are expected to process the payment instructions of their customer 
 that is a primary obligation. But as a matter of good industry practice, where there are 
grounds to suspect that the payment instruction might be likely to result in financial detriment 
to a customer through fraud or scam, then Id expect a bank to delay executing the 
instruction until the bank can reassure itself that such harm will not result.
Ive considered whether the payment Mrs H made was one Halifax should have had 
particular concern about. I have reviewed Mrs Hs bank statements from November 2021 to 
the date of this transaction. This transaction was not unusual for her account. There were 
other of the same or similar values. 
So Im satisfied that this payment would not have appeared to Halifax as likely to be 
fraudulent or part of a scam. This means I havent found there are grounds for me to 
conclude Halifax ought to have delayed fulfilling its primary obligation to make the payment 
in accordance with Mrs Hs instructions.  
It follows I dont think Halifax caused Mrs Hs loss in failing to intervene when she made the 
first payment. I have then thought about whether Halifax could have recovered any of Mrs 
Hs payment. As she made the payment using her debit card, the only potential recovery 
option would have been through the chargeback scheme. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer, so here Halifax, acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its customer.
I can see that Halifax did not attempt a chargeback claim. It explained this was because the 
money transfer company had not failed to provide the service it sold. I think that decision 
was reasonable.
I therefore dont think Halifax could have recovered Mrs Hs payment. Mrs H says had 
Halifax not told her to wait 15 days she might have been able to recover the money by 
calling the money transfer company herself. But I dont think she would have most likely 
been successful as she had made her payment into the scammers account there, not an 
account she had control over. As I said previously, as shed paid using her debit card the 
only potential recovery option for Halifax to consider was through the chargeback scheme. 
Im sorry Mrs H lost what was a very significant amount of money for her and I know this has 
been a stressful experience. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax, who had 
no involvement in the scam itself, can be fairly held liable for the loss.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman