DRN-2919519
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
loan application. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss B applied for a loan with Nationwide. Miss B said she earned around 
£1,800 a month and Nationwide says it took living expenses as well as the costs for paying 
credit it found into account. Nationwide also says Miss B had previously successfully repaid 
personal loans before. Miss Bs loan application for £15,000 was approved with monthly 
repayments of around £300. 
Miss Bs credit file shows she used part of the funds to repay a credit card balance of around 
£3,400. 
Last year, Miss Bs loan fell into arrears and she went on to complain that Nationwide lent 
irresponsibly when it approved the loan application in January 2020. Miss Bs representative 
pointed out she had relied on her overdraft in the months before the loan application was 
made. Miss Bs representative explained she had lost her job and was experiencing financial 
difficulties. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint and didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Miss 
Bs case was referred to an investigator at this service but they thought Nationwide had 
carried out reasonable checks before approving the loan and didnt find it had lent 
irresponsibly. Miss Bs representative asked to appeal and said her income wasnt sufficient 
to support her existing commitments along with a new loan payment. As Miss Bs 
representative asked to appeal, Ive been passed the case to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Nationwide had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss B could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Miss B gave details of her income as £1,800 a month and Nationwide used 
estimated outgoings for items like rent and general living expenses. Nationwide also found 
Miss B had a loan with monthly payments of £426 and an outstanding credit card balance of 
£3,957. Nationwide says it also took the cost of these debts into account. Nationwide was 
also aware that Miss B was using her overdraft each month. Nationwide says the application 
was approved in line with its lending criteria. 
Ive considered whether Nationwide carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving the loan. Ive looked her credit file and can see Miss B has a car loan with 
payments of £426. I can also see Miss B had a credit card (that she went on to repay) and 
both monthly payments were factored into Nationwides lending assessment. I note Miss B 
repaid the credit card which meant she no longer made the monthly payments of about 
£100. Miss B didnt have any missed payments or adverse credit recorded on her credit file. 
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwides checks were proportionate in this case. 
Miss Bs representative says the use of her overdraft shouldve caused Nationwide concern 
during the application and that it couldve looked at her bank statements. But, Nationwide 
has confirmed it took the cost of the overdraft into account. Ive reviewed Miss Bs 
statements from the period before and after the loan was approved to see what Nationwide 
wouldve found if it had carried out more detailed checks. 
The statements show Miss B had some regular outgoings for a car loan, credit card, 
insurance and mobile phone bill. But I havent seen anything in the statements that shows 
Miss B had other regular primary outgoings she had to cover each month. As the 
investigator said, Nationwide used estimates of for rent despite Miss B advising she was 
living with family. From what Ive seen, Nationwides estimate of Miss Bs regular outgoings 
was higher than the reality. And the income Miss B declared in the application appears to be 
broadly in line with the information on her bank statements. 
So whilst I know Nationwide didnt specifically check Miss Bs bank statements, I still think 
the application wouldve been approved if it had. I think Nationwides decision to approve 
Miss Bs loan application based on what it knew about her was reasonable. I dont agree 
Nationwide lent irresponsibly. As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Miss Bs complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman