DRN-3276285
The complaint
Mr E has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to decline 
a claim he made under his NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprising multiple separate properties. In 2017 
Mr E and the other leaseholders, via their property management company, made a claim 
through NHBC. This was for cracking damage, to both individual properties and some 
common parts of the building, which they suspected to have been caused by subsidence. 
They also reported the issues to their building insurer.
The damage to the property, which is the subject of this complaint, has been reported as:
Cracking to external brickwork
Movement joints have opened up
Possible subsidence
Below ground drainage cracked
Several reports and investigations have been undertaken at the property, instructed by either 
the residents, NHBC or the building insurer. 
NHBCs investigations have included, among other things, soil analysis, drainage surveys 
and a period of 12 months monitoring for movement at the property, overseen by a structural 
engineer. Based on the investigations, NHBC concluded that none of the areas of damage 
had been caused by a defect in any of the parts of the home or common parts which are 
covered under the terms of the warranty.
Mr E didnt accept NHBCs conclusions. He feels its investigations havent been adequate 
and is dissatisfied that the cause of the damage still hasnt been identified. He feels NHBC 
and his building insurer should come together and arrange to put right the issues at the 
property. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that the investigations completed had shown that the damage 
reported hadnt been caused by a defect, as defined by the policy. She was persuaded by 
this evidence and so didnt conclude that NHBC had acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the initial claim raised with NHBC was brought by the property management 
company, on behalf of all the residents. But this complaint has been brought to our service 
by Mr E only. So, in assessing the complaint, Ill focus only on what Mr E is entitled to under 
his individual warranty.
Secondly, I understand that Mr E, and the other residents of his building, are in the process 
of obtaining further expert reports in support of their position. But any new evidence 
regarding the issues at the property would first need to be presented to NHBC for 
consideration. In this complaint, Ill only be considering the decision NHBC made in 2020 
based on the evidence it had available at the time, along with its stated position in its final 
response letter from August 2020.
Should the residents (including Mr E) provide further evidence to NHBC which changes its 
position, but its new position still leaves them dissatisfied, they may be able to raise a new 
complaint with our service.
Finally, this claim has involved both NHBC and Mr Es building insurer. But in this decision, 
Im focusing solely on the actions of NHBC.
What the policy covers
NHBCs Buildmark policy provides cover for specific major problems with newly built or 
converted properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. The 
policy is bought by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase the 
property. The cover provided by the policy is split into several sections. 
Section 3 of the policy is the relevant section in this complaint. This section states that 
NHBC will pay for:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common 
Parts:
It then goes on to list the various specified parts which are covered, which include 
foundations and below ground drainage which Mr E is responsible for.
Within the policy booklet there is also specific emphasis on the words Damage and 
Defect and individual definitions for each:
Damage
Physical damage to the Home caused by a DefectDefect
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed 
by him or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC 
Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other ways that 
the required performance can be achieved.
So, Mr Es warranty doesnt guarantee that his property will be free from defects. Rather, it 
covers repairing any damage which has been caused by a defect (as defined) to one, or 
more, of the specified parts of the home or common parts. When considering a claim, NHBC 
are looking at whether it meets the requirements under the policy. This means it is looking to 
see whether damage is being caused by a defect as defined. NHBC isnt necessarily looking 
to identify or determine other issues which might be present, such as damage being caused 
for another reason, if its clear a defect (as defined) isnt the cause of the damage being 
claimed for.
The claim
Mr E, and the residents, raised a claim with their building insurer. This was declined for 
several reasons, including:
normal settlement of a new structure wasnt covered,
faulty or defective workmanship wasnt covered, and
that losses should be recoverable through a warranty or guarantee, and so werent 
covered
A claim was also reported to NHBC and it undertook several site visits and investigations. Ill 
summarise the findings of these below.
The monitoring results found little to no movement at the three crack locations monitored 
over a one-year period. However, they did identify a discrepancy in the depth of the bed joint 
at the left-hand gable to the right. And they concluded that the left-hand gable had continued 
to settle by approximately 5mm since commencement of the monitoring.
The soil investigations identified stiff clay beneath the underside of the foundations which 
was unlikely to be susceptible to heave or shrink as a result of moisture change within the 
clay. However, it was recommended that a high water demand tree in the vicinity be 
managed moving forward to reduce the risk of clay shrinkage induced movement. No issues 
were identified with the depth or width of the foundations or the bearing capacity of the 
surrounding soil.
CCTV drainage investigations concluded that there was some damage to the inside of the 
drainage pipe located closest to the gable wall. But there was no evidence of puncturing or 
that these markings were impacting the performance of the drain. The investigations also 
confirmed that a drainage run in the vicinity of the car park (which is prone to flooding) was 
blocked. NHBC attempted to clear this via jet-wash, but it was unsuccessful. NHBC identified 
the blockage as silt and leaves, and recommended this was dealt with by the property 
management company as part of normal maintenance.
A later excavation of the drainage run, including the joints and areas where there were 
markings, found the surrounding soils were completely dry. The conclusion was there was 
no evidence to suggest there had been any leakage, or consequent softening of the ground 
around the foundations, at any time. Reports of internal cracking and poorly fitting doors were inspected, including in Mr Es 
home. It was concluded that the movement identified wasnt close to the gable wall, and so 
was unlikely to be related. The report concluded that any internal movement was most likely 
due to shrinkage of the timber frame  which isnt covered under section 3 of the warranty.
Based on the results of the various reports and investigations, NHBC declined the claim for 
the damage reported. It stated that the cracking damage, both externally and internally, 
hadnt been caused by a defect. It also said the damage was minor and not of any structural 
concern and that it could be made good as part of routine building maintenance. 
In terms of the drainage, NHBC said it was in good condition and not leaking water into the 
ground. It highlighted that the parking bay drainage wasnt performing as expected but said 
this was due to a lack of maintenance. It attributed the flooding in the parking bay to a 
blockage rather than any construction related defect.
Mr E says NHBCs reports and investigations havent been thorough enough. In particular he 
highlights that the drainage investigations have focused on the drain closest to the gable end 
and omitted detailed considerations of the drainage adjacent to the car park  which he says 
is comprised of a gulley drain and soakaway. Mr E says the positioning and performance of 
the soakaway trench is likely responsible for the ponding reported in the car park and that 
water ponding could be responsible for washing away the ground beneath the foundations  
causing the cracking damage reported as part of the claim.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided. While I can see 
that NHBCs drainage investigations did focus primarily on the drainage closest to the gable 
wall, I dont think they omitted the drainage to the car park. This drainage was commented 
on in several of the reports, initially in August 2018. NHBC explained that the gulley for the 
surface water to the car park was blocked and that the blockage should be attended to by 
the managing agent as part of building maintenance. NHBCs engineering report later 
concluded that the surface water drains were in reasonable condition and did not appear to 
be leaking water into the ground. The engineer stated that it was clear that the flooding in the 
car park had been caused by the blocked pipe from the corner gulley, which was preventing 
rainwater from draining into the soakaway. NHBC explained its findings on the drainage to 
Mr E (via the property management company) in its investigation report of May 2020. This 
stated that as the surface drainage was performing, and not contributing to the structural 
issues, there was no cover for this item under the warranty. So, based on the above, I cant 
reasonably conclude that NHBC failed to consider the car park drainage as part of its 
investigations.
When assessing Mr Es claim, NHBC conducted and commissioned multiple reports and 
investigations into the reported damage at the property. From what Ive seen, these reports 
and investigations were undertaken by suitably qualified and experienced 
people/companies. The investigations completed are also consistent with those I would 
expect to see carried out in cases of suspected subsidence damage. 
As Ive explained, the key to cover being provided under section 3 of the warranty is that 
damage has been caused by a defect (as defined) in one or more of the specified parts of 
the home or common parts. While Mr E has highlighted some other potential defects with the 
car park drainage, including potential breaches of building regulations, there is currently no 
expert evidence to support Mr Es view that these issues are causing or contributing to the 
reported damage at the property. I appreciate Mr E Would like NHBC to continue investigating until it conclusively diagnoses 
the cause (or causes) of the damage. But as Ive explained, when looking at the claim, 
NHBC is considering whether damage is being caused by a defect (as defined) as that is 
what is covered under the policy. If NHBC has demonstrated that a defect isnt the cause 
and therefore that there isnt any policy cover, then I dont find it unreasonable that it then 
wouldnt carry out further investigations on behalf of Mr E. And most relevant here is that, at 
the time of NHBCs claim decision, none of the available expert reports linked any of the 
reported damage to a defect in one of the specified parts covered under section 3. So, 
based on the information contained within the reports, I think the conclusions NHBC reached 
at the time (that the damage was not caused by a defect) were reasonable.
As I understand it, Mr E and the residents of his building are in the process of commissioning 
a new structural engineers report. And the building insurer are reconsidering their position 
on the claim following the results of NHBCs claim decision  which will include further 
investigations. Should any of the new reports or investigations call into question the decision 
reached by NHBC, Mr E (and/or the residents) should share this information with NHBC for 
consideration. And should they remain unhappy with NHBCs position, following 
consideration of the new evidence, they can refer their concerns to our service as a new 
complaint.
But, based on the evidence available at the time of its claim decision, Im satisfied NHBCs 
decision to decline the claim for the reported damage was in line with the policy terms, and 
that it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr E complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman