DRN-3770747
The complaint
Mr R says James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JH) is responsible for the delay in 
transferring his Scottish Widows (SW) pension  from SW to JH  in 2020; and for financial 
losses resulting from the delay.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In the 
main, JH agreed with the investigators findings. However, the matter has been referred to 
an ombudsman because Mr R seeks more in redress than the investigator proposed. The 
investigator mainly said:
Mr R held an Appropriate Personal Pension (APP) with SW. In July 2020 he 
instructed the in-specie transfer of the APP to a JH Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). Prior to this, and in early 2020, he (through his financial adviser) had sought 
to withdraw a tax free Pension Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS) from the APP, 
which he wanted to use to pay off his residential mortgage. The withdrawal was not 
possible without first liquidating a commercial property holding within the APP, which 
he did not want to do. The alternative he opted for was the transfer of the APP to the 
JH SIPP, after confirmation that he could thereafter access the PCLS (in the SIPP) 
without having to sell the commercial property holding. The transfer process began 
on 13 July 2020, was delayed and did not conclude until 15 June 2021  and the 
PCLS was paid to Mr R on 23 June 2021.
Mr R claims compensation for financial losses resulting from the delay  monthly 
mortgage payments he had to continue making during the delay; additional tax 
charges caused by those payments being made from his business funds; legal and 
accountants fees in excess of what they would have been but for the delay. He also 
seeks compensation for JHs failure of service to him and the overall stress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
JH concedes the complaint with regards to the delayed transfer process and on the 
following specific basis  it accepts responsibility for delaying the process by a total 
of 12 weeks; first, an issue about leases (for the property holding) in the process was 
addressed by 13 September 2020, it then took too long to instruct solicitors to 
progress the matter, and it did not do so until 6 November 2020; and then, once 
particular issues with VAT submissions (relevant to the process) were completed on 
22 April 2021 it took too long to pay out the PCLS and it did not do so until 23 June 
2021. Other than these periods, JH says time was consumed by reasonable 
processing matters (including waiting for actions by third parties) and that but for the 
delays in these periods the PCLS would have been paid out by the end of March 
2021.
The chronology of events in the process supports JHs conclusions. Due to the 
nature and contents of the overall transfer there were multiple participants within it 
(including solicitors, HMRC and the land registry), all of whom had to liaise with each 
other during the process. In such circumstances, it is unlikely that a single party can 
be completely responsible for delays, and JH had no control over or responsibility for 
third parties. 
The transfer of a property holding within a pension can be lengthy and complex, even 
in ideal circumstances. Transfer related documents forewarned Mr R about this. In 
his case, the commercial property was divided into multiple units and there were 
issues with their leases even before the transfer. They had to merged into a single 
master lease and there was also an issue to be addressed with regards to the 
propertys Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating. The transfer would have 
always taken a significant amount of time, for these reasons, so even without any 
delays Mr R would still have needed to pay his mortgage for longer than he had 
perhaps planned.
Mr R should be compensated by JH for being deprived of the PCLS between April 
and June 2021, for any additional legal and accountants fees that he incurred during 
these months (and that he can evidence) and for any additional personal tax charge 
he incurred (and can evidence) due to using his business funds to pay his mortgage 
during these months. JH should also pay him £150 compensation for its contribution 
towards the distress and inconvenience he faced in the process. 
JH said it agrees to compensate Mr R  through payment of interest at 8% simple  for being 
deprived of the PCLS during the 85 days between 31 March and 23 June 2021; that it also 
agrees to pay him £150 for distress and inconvenience; and that it agrees to consider 
payment of compensation in the other two areas proposed by the investigator but it is 
important for Mr R to ensure that the evidence he provides in those respects is clarified. 
Mr R initially rejected the investigators proposed redress, and said he would settle for no 
less than compensation (with interest) for six months worth of his mortgage payments plus 
compensation for the additional tax and fees he incurred. The investigator referred to his 
finding on the 12 weeks of delay caused by JH and he explained that redress is meant to put 
Mr R back into the position he would have been in had JH not caused that delay. In this 
context, he also explained that, without the delay, the mortgage liability remained the same 
and the only difference caused by the delay was the additional mortgage interest (and 
associated fees) incurred during the delay.  
In response, Mr R first said he wished to avoid contesting matters further and drawing out 
the complaint, so he was prepared to accept the investigators proposed redress. He then 
withdrew his acceptance. He disagrees with redress being limited to mortgage interest/fees 
only for the relevant three months  instead, he says, all his mortgage payments during the 
period (around £2,000 per month) should be compensated for. The matter was then referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions that the investigator expressed, for 
broadly the same reasons he gave. For this reason, I endorse and incorporate his findings 
into this decision. 
The key facts and chronology of events do not appear to be in dispute, so I do not consider it 
necessary to set out details of them in this decision. Like the investigator said, multiple 
parties were involved in the overall transfer process  including those (like, but not limited to, 
SW, JH, Mr R and his financial adviser) who were immediately involved in it, and then those involved because of the commercial property element within the transfer and the move 
towards consolidating a set of individual leases into a master lease, and even, it appears, 
extending to the tenants of the commercial property and their representatives. Each party 
retained its responsibility for its actions (or inaction) and I have not seen evidence that JH 
shared or undertook another partys responsibility.
Furthermore, the investigator was also correct in highlighting notices and forewarnings given 
about the likely complexities that can arise in an in-specie pension transfer involving a 
property holding(s) and the additional time consumption these complexities can cause  
mainly due to the particular steps and requirements in the transfer and re-registration of 
property ownership within the wider transfer process. Some of these warnings were borne 
out in the process that followed in Mr Rs case.
Available evidence supports the conclusion that, in any case and for the aforementioned 
reasons, the transfer was more likely (than not) to take more time than Mr R might have 
anticipated. I am mindful of his objective at the time  to release the PCLS and use it to pay 
off his mortgage. I understand why he would have wanted to achieve this without delay, and 
therefore avoid servicing the mortgage for longer than he wanted to. However, the present 
complaint is about JH and its role in the overall process, so it would not be fair or reasonable 
to lose sight of the need to establish its liability within the remit of that role, and not beyond 
that. A complaint about SWs role in the process appears to have been pursued separately, 
with, it appears, separate payment offered to Mr R for distress and inconvenience resulting 
from that. This lends itself to illustrating what I said above about the involvement of multiple 
parties, about each retaining responsibility for its actions and my view about JHs role 
defining the limit to its liability in the matter. It cannot reasonably be held responsible for 
issues outside its role over which it had no control.
Overall and on balance, beyond the delays that JH and the investigator have identified  the 
delay, between September and November 2020, in instructing solicitors (which Mr R 
highlighted in his complaint) and then the delay, between April and June 2021, in paying out 
the PCLS  I am not persuaded that any other tangible delay in the process has been 
established as JHs sole or main responsibility. I appreciate that Mr Rs pursuit began in 
early 2020 but the same does not apply to JHs responsibility. In the context of the complaint 
about the delayed transfer, its responsibility began when the transfer was initiated in July 
2020. The transfer was completed around 11 months thereafter and JH caused (and accepts 
responsibility for) a total delay of around three months within that. I could make observations 
about events in which others appear to have caused delays of their own but I do not 
consider such observations to be called for in the present complaint about JH. It is enough to 
say that JHs main faults were the two periods of delay cited above.
Most recently, the dispute between the parties (and between Mr R and the investigator) has 
moved to the calculation of redress. 
I understand where Mr R is coming from in his pursuit of compensation for what he 
considers to be mortgage payments he made which would have been avoided but for JHs 
delay. As I said above, paying off the mortgage with the PCLS and ending his mortgage 
servicing obligation was his underlying objective, so I can see why he considers that the 
additional servicing payments he made because of the delay should be compensated for. 
However, this position overlooks the point that the investigator made and explained to him. 
The mortgage liability remained what it was, with or without the delay caused by JH. It was a 
repayment mortgage. The liability remained either in terms of the outstanding capital amount 
to be paid off, or in terms of the capital element of the remaining monthly repayments. 
Where those monthly repayments continued for longer than Mr R wished, because of the 
delays in the transfer process (including release of the PCLS), the added and avoidable costs to him were not the mortgages monthly capital repayments  which were always going 
to be due  instead, the additional and avoidable costs to him were any interest and fee 
charges associated with the monthly repayments that would not have arisen if the mortgage 
was paid off. 
As the investigator said, we apply redress with the aim of putting a complainant into the 
position they would have been in but for a firms wrongdoing. We do not seek to put the 
complainant into a better position. In Mr Rs case, compensating him for the repayment of 
mortgage capital that was always his responsibility to repay, regardless of JHs delay, would 
put him in a better position. We would not do that. However, compensation for the mortgage 
repayment interest/fess he incurred, during the period identified above, that he would have 
avoided but for JHs delay fits our aim for redress in a case.
Putting things right
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr R as close as I can to the position he would 
probably be in, but for the 12 weeks of delay caused by JH. I have addressed above our 
services rationale behind this approach. There is no claim for, or evidence of, 
investment/reinvestment related loss in this case, the APP was transferred to the SIPP in 
specie and the objective was withdrawal of the PCLS in order to pay off Mr Rs mortgage, so 
this defines the scope for redress. On this basis, I order as follows:
JH must pay Mr R interest on the PCLS amount, at the rate of 8% simple per year, 
for the period between 31 March 2021 and 23 June 2021, during which he was 
deprived of the use of the PCLS because of the total delay caused by JH. This is 
redress for both the loss of use of the PCLS and for what I explained earlier about 
the mortgage interest/fees incurred during this period that would have been avoided 
without the delay.
If Mr R has or retains a claim for compensation for additional legal and/or 
accountants fees he incurred for legal and/or accountancy work (relevant to the 
transfer and/or his mortgage repayment) conducted between 31 March 2021 and 23 
June 2021 that would not have arisen if the transfer was completed and the PCLS 
payment had been made by 31 March 2021, he must present specific documentary 
evidence of those fees to JH. He must also provide a meaningful explanation (from 
him and/or his solicitors and accountants) of the contents of those documents. Upon 
receipt of these, JH must compensate Mr R for the total of the fees that have been 
evidenced. 
If Mr R has or retains a claim for compensation for personal tax he incurred because 
his business funds were used to make mortgage repayments between 31 March 
2021 and 23 June 2021 and because such personal tax would not have arisen if the 
transfer was completed and the PCLS payment had been made by 31 March 2021, 
he must present to JH specific documentary evidence of the relevant tax liability. He 
must also present evidence of the tax liability resulting directly from the use of his 
business funds to make mortgage repayments between 31 March 2021 and 23 June 
2021. Upon receipt of these, JH must compensate Mr R for the total of the tax liability 
that has been evidenced. 
JH must pay Mr R £150 for its contribution, through its delay, to the trouble and upset 
caused to him in the transfer process. I consider this a fair level of award for this 
purpose given that JHs responsibility is limited, for the reasons I explained earlier. compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Rs case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it began in 2020) and the 
complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), so the 
applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. My orders for redress, from James 
Hay Administration Company Ltd to him, are as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman