DRN-4282678
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank was 
irresponsible in its lending to her. 
What happened
Mrs B was provided with a £15,000 fixed sum loan by My Community Bank in October 2022. 
The loan term was 60 months with monthly repayments of around £386 followed by a final 
payment to clear the remaining obligations. 
Mrs B says that the loan was unaffordable. She said the repayments account for a large 
proportion of her income and that she needed to borrow again. She said that had her income 
and expenses been assessed it would have been clear that the loan was unaffordable and 
that her credit file showed she had other debts and was struggling to meet her repayments 
on these. 
My Community Bank issued a final response letter in February 2023. It said that as part of its 
application process it carried out creditworthiness and affordability checks. It said it verified 
Mrs Bs income with a credit reference agency and used third party data to estimate her 
expenses. It said the credit check showed her other credit commitments and recorded no 
insolvencies, delinquencies or recent payday loans. It said that based on its assessment the 
loan was affordable for Mrs B. 
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint. But after further consideration she decided 
not to uphold the complaint. She said that given the term of the loan, the repayment amounts 
and what was apparent about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time it wouldnt have been 
proportionate for My Community Bank to ask for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. She didnt think that there was anything in the information 
Mrs B provided that meant it was proportionate for My Community Bank to be required to 
verify the information. And based on the information she said the loan appeared affordable.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that her bank statements should 
have been taken into account so her income and expenses could have been assessed. She 
said that while she had said the loan was to consolidate debts, she hadnt stated which 
debts she intended to consolidate. She said she didnt use the loan to consolidate her debts 
and even if she had the repayments under the new loan would have left her in a worse 
financial position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Before providing the loan, My Community Bank asked Mrs B about her income and carried 
out a credit check. Mrs B declared an annual income of £31,600 and My Community Bank 
verified this with a credit reference agency. Mrs B has confirmed this income was correct at 
the time and while I understand her hours were then reduced the assessment was based on 
the information provided at the time of application. Based on an annual income of £31,600, 
Mrs B would have received a monthly income of around £2,100.
The credit check undertaken by My Community Bank recorded Mrs B as having monthly 
credit commitments of around £427 and monthly mortgage commitments of around £325. 
Mrs B said the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation and while I understand that she 
didnt use the loan for this purpose, I think it reasonable that My Community Bank accepted 
this was the purpose of the loan in its assessment.
My Community Bank has said it assessed Mrs Bs expenses based on third party data. In 
certain circumstances we would expect the expenses to be verified, but I think in this case 
the checks carried out by My Community Bank were reasonable. I say this because Mrs Bs 
credit check didnt raise concerns that I think meant further checks should have taken place 
(My Community Bank has said that there were no delinquencies or insolvencies recorded 
and no recent payday loans). Considering the loan repayments compared to Mrs Bs income 
(which was verified with the credit reference agency), and noting her other commitments as 
shown by the credit report and that the loan was said to be for debt consolidation, I do not 
find the information meant that verification of the expenses was required in this case.
While I consider the checks were proportionate, I have also to consider whether, based on 
the information gained through these, the loan should have been considered affordable for 
Mrs B. Mrs Bs monthly income was around £2,100. Her mortgage commitments were 
around £325 a month and her credit commitments recorded in her credit file at the time of 
application were around £427. The My Community Bank loan required repayments of around 
£386 a month. This would give repayments of credit commitments (including the mortgage) 
of around £1,138. However, Mrs B gave the reason for the loan as being debt consolidation. 
Had this happened, Mrs Bs credit commitments noted as £427 a month would have 
reduced. 
Mrs B has said she wasnt asked which debts she intended to repay, and I have considered 
her comments in regard to what she could have repaid using the loan. Mrs B noted debts 
totalling around £11,000 that could have been repaid. This would have left her with around 
£4,000 from the loan proceeds after the debt repayments. Based on these repayments, 
Mrs B says her credit commitments would have reduced by around £283. This would result 
in credit commitments (including mortgage costs) of around £855. This was against a 
monthly income of around £2,100 (and I note Mrs B was also receiving regular benefit 
payments). While I understand that Mrs B also paid rent due to her house being in shared 
ownership, I do not find that the information gathered suggested the loan repayments would 
be unaffordable for Mrs B. In conclusion, I do not find that I have enough to say that the checks carried out by My 
Community Bank were unreasonable and as these didnt suggest the loan repayments were 
unaffordable, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman