DRN-3813260
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding a large monetary transfer that was selected for additional security checks.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P instructed a large payment from their account. But the payment was blocked 
by Santander and wasnt allowed to complete. Mr P and Mrs P werent happy about this, 
especially as they had to spend an excessively long time on hold when trying to call 
Santander to resolve the issue. So, they raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint. They explained the payment had been 
flagged for additional security checks, and they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by doing 
so. However, Santander did accept that Mr P and Mrs P had encountered very long hold 
times when trying to contact them, and they apologised to Mrs P and Mr P for this and paid 
£75 as compensation for any trouble and upset they may have incurred. Mr P and Mrs P 
werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Santanders response to 
Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint  including the explanation, apology, and payment of 
compensation  already represented a fair outcome to this complaint. Mr P and Mrs P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their referral of their complaint to this service, Mr P and Mrs P complain not only about 
what happened specifically to them, but also about Santanders fraud detection processes 
and systems in general.
This service isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt within the remit of this service to comment 
on Santanders processes and systems in a general manner here as Mr P and Mrs P would 
like. Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service, with a remit focussed on 
fairness of outcome regarding the specific events surrounding a complaint.
In this instance, it isnt in dispute that Mr P and Mrs P were inconvenienced by what took 
place here. But it doesnt necessarily follow that because Mr P and Mrs P were 
inconvenienced, that Santander must have done something wrong.
I say this because Santander, like all banks, have an obligation to protect their customers 
money wherever possible, and the use of fraud prevention systems  such as the one which 
flagged Mr P and Mrs Ps payment for further checks  is a commonly used method to help 
banks meet these obligations. 
Unfortunately, the use of these systems means that it can be the case that an unavoidable 
degree of necessary inconvenience can occur, and I feel this is whats happened in this 
instance. And given Santanders wider obligations, as described above, I dont feel 
Santander did act unfairly or unreasonably by blocking the requested large payment, or by 
requiring Mr P and Mrs P to verify that payment before allowing it to proceed. 
Mr P and Mrs P also complain about the difficulties they encountered while trying to contact 
Santander to verify the blocked payment. Generally speaking, Santander cant control the 
number of people who attempt to contact them at any one time. But Santander did 
acknowledge that in this instance Mr P and Mrs P did have to wait longer than they 
reasonably should have done when trying to call them, and they apologised to Mr P and Mrs 
P for this and paid £75 to them as compensation for the frustration and trouble they incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware that Mr P and Mrs P feel a much 
higher award of compensation should be merited here. But the £75 that Santander paid for 
the excessive hold times Mr P and Mrs P encountered does seem fair to me, and Im 
satisfied its commensurate both with the general framework which this service uses when 
considering compensation payment amounts  further details of which can be found on this 
services website  and with what I might have instructed Santander to have paid, had they 
not already done so. 
As explained, I dont dispute that Mr P and Mrs P were inconvenienced here. But I dont feel 
that they were unfairly inconvenienced by Santander blocking the payment, which was an 
action Im satisfied was reasonable. And Im also satisfied that Santander have fairly 
compensated Mr P and Mrs P for the long wait times they experienced when calling to verify 
the payment.  
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P and Mrs P were wanting here, but In consideration 
of all the above, Im satisfied that Santanders response to their complaint already represents 
a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened, and so I wont be instructing Santander 
to take any further action. I hope Mr P and Mrs P will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman