DRN-2927608
The complaint
Mr C has complained that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line (UKI), failed to 
contact him appropriately before unfairly cancelling his commercial motor insurance policy 
without reasonable notice.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021 explaining that I was 
intending to uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr C bought a commercial motor insurance policy, for his van, with UKI in 
October 2020.
UKI cancelled Mr Cs policy in December 2020 because it hadnt been provided 
with proof of Mr Cs stated no claims discount (NCD).
Mr C says that he wasnt aware he needed to provide this information. He says 
UKI had his phone number and email address and yet didnt chase him to 
provide the information before cancelling his policy. He says that UKIs actions 
have caused him to incur an administration fee, lost earnings and higher 
premiums when taking out a new policy elsewhere. He would like these amounts 
to reimbursed and for UKI to remove the policy cancellation record from the 
relevant databases.
UKI says that Mr C set his contact preferences as post when he took out the 
policy online and that it sent several letters to Mr C requesting the information it 
needed before it cancelled his policy. Based on this, UKI says it has followed 
its correct process and so doesnt agree that it has treated Mr C unfairly.
Mr C says he didnt receive the letters sent before his policy was cancelled. He 
says he told UKI his contact preference was email and that it would have been 
reasonable for UKI to have attempted to contact him by other methods before 
cancelling his policy.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint, but she didnt think it 
should be upheld. She said UKI had evidenced that it had sent the letters to Mr 
Cs correct address, so she couldnt hold it responsible if they werent received. 
She felt that by writing to Mr Cs correct address UKI had made reasonable 
attempts to obtain the information before it cancelled his policy. She also felt the 
administration fee for cancellation was clearly stated in the schedule.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different conclusion to that reached by 
our investigator. I say this because, having considered the system notes of the 
correspondence sent by UKI, and copies of that correspondence, I dont agree 
that UKI followed its correct process before cancelling Mr Cs policy. Ill explain 
why in more detail below.
UKI has provided a copy of Mr Cs policy booklet. On page 24 under the 
heading, cancellation by us it states:
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you at 
least 7 days notice in writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. 
This also applies in any situation where we have agreed to provide 
cover even if this has not yet started.
We will send our cancellation letter to the latest address we have for 
you. Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
where you are required in accordance with the terms of this 
policy, to co-operate with us, or send us information or 
documentation and you fail to do so in a way that substantially 
affects our ability to process your claim, or deal with your policy;
where there are changes to your circumstances which mean 
you no longer meet our criteria for providing motor insurance;
where you have used threatening or abusive behaviour or 
language or you have intimidated or bullied our staff or suppliers;
where we reasonably suspect fraud.
If we cancel your policy we will return the premium paid less the amount 
for the period the policy has been in force.

If your policy is cancelled in accordance with this section, any applicable 
administration fee for the cancellation will also be deducted from any 
payment due to you.
UKI has provided system notes to show that Mr Cs contact preferences are set 
to post. It has also provided evidence that Mr Cs welcome letter, sent to him 
on 13 October 2020, stated that he needed to provide proof of his stated NCD 
within 21 days. UKI has sent a copy of the chaser letter it sent to Mr C on 4 
November 2020 giving a further 14 days for the information to be provided. And 
UKI has provided a copy of the cancellation confirmation letter it sent to Mr C 
on 9 December 2020.
Ive reviewed the above correspondence and the accompanying system notes 
sent by UKI. I can see that Mr C was asked to provide his no claims information 
within a set deadline, and that he was chased for the information and given a new 
deadline. However, I cant see that Mr C was given seven days notice of UKIs 
intention to cancel his policy, before it was cancelled. And, in my view, the terms 
and conditions are clear that UKI only has the right to cancel Mr Cs policy, in 
these circumstances, if it gives said notice in writing first.As UKI is the party who wrote the terms and conditions, I consider it fair and 
reasonable to hold them to the requirements they set out. So, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think UKIs decision to cancel Mr Cs 
policy was fair, reasonable or in line with the policy terms.
I note that Mr C has said he didnt receive some of the letters sent by UKI, so Ive 
considered whether its fair to uphold this complaint, given the possibility that he 
may not have received a cancellation notice, had it been sent. But just because 
Mr C says he didnt receive some letters, doesnt mean that he wouldnt have 
received a cancellation notice  had it been sent. Afterall, he did receive the 
cancellation confirmation letter. And even if Mr C had received the letters UKI 
sent, as they didnt give him at least 7 days notice of cancellation, he would most 
likely still be in the same position that he now finds himself in.
Had UKI sent the cancellation confirmation letter in the same way it sent the 
other letters I would not think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. This is 
because I would consider that UKI had followed its correct process by sending 
the required notice, by the correct medium, to Mr Cs correct address. So I 
wouldnt hold it responsible if
Mr C didnt receive the letters. But as UKI didnt send a letter, giving the 
required notice, before cancelling Mr Cs policy, I think his complaint should 
be upheld.
UKI charged Mr C an administration fee for cancelling his policy  which it is 
entitled to do under the terms and conditions. But as I dont agree the 
cancellation was fair in the circumstances here, I think UKI needs to reimburse 
this fee, plus interest.
Mr C has also explained that because UKI recorded that it cancelled Mr Cs 
policy on the industry databases, he has had to pay a higher premium to get a 
new policy elsewhere. I accept that this will have been frustrating and distressing 
for Mr C. So, to put things right, I think UKI should remove the cancellation 
marker recorded against Mr C from the relevant databases. In addition, UKI 
should issue Mr C with a letter stating that the cancellation marker was incorrectly 
recorded  which Mr C can provide to his new insurer to have his premiums 
recalculated and reduced accordingly.
Taking into account everything Mr C has said about the impact UKIs error has 
had on him, I think UKI should also pay him £200 compensation.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say it didnt agree with my provisional findings. To summarise, it said:
The letters it sent included clear deadlines which were longer than seven days
Mr C says he didnt receive the letters, so even if it had sent a cancellation 
notice, he wouldnt have received or read it
Mr C logged into his online account in October 2020, when the welcome letter 
would have been available

The compensation suggested is too highMr C didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed, so Im moving forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI suggests that it doesnt matter that it didnt send a notice of cancellation because the 
letters it did send contained clear deadlines. I considered this when reaching my 
provisional decision. But as I stated, the policy is clear that UKI only has the right to cancel 
Mr Cs policy, for the reason it has done here, if it provides seven days notice of its 
intention to do so in writing. UKI didnt do that in this case.
UKI has also argued that it wouldnt have made any difference if it had sent a cancellation 
notice as Mr C would likely not have received or read it. Again, I thought about this before 
I reached my provisional decision. In my view, the fact Mr C says he didnt receive the 
welcome letter or chaser doesnt mean he wouldnt have received a cancellation notice if 
it had been sent, especially considering that Mr C did receive the cancellation 
confirmation letter when that was sent. What I think is crucial is that UKI did not follow the 
required process before taking the decision to cancel Mr Cs policy.
Ultimately, I dont think UKIs decision to cancel Mr Cs policy was in line with the 
policy terms, or fair and reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case.
Ive also thought about UKIs concern with the level of compensation I provisionally 
decided on. But its comments havent changed my decision. I think UKI was wrong to 
cancel Mr Cs policy in the way it did and, in addition to causing him detriment, I think this 
caused some understandable distress and inconvenience. I remain of the view that £200 
will fairly compensate Mr C for the impact UKIs error had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr 
Cs complaint.
UK Insurance Limited must:
Remove the cancellation marker recorded against Mr C from all relevant databases
Reimburse the administration fee Mr C was charged, plus add 8% simple 
interest from the date Mr C was out of pocket until the date he is reimbursed
Issue Mr C with a letter stating that the cancellation was incorrectly recorded 
against Mr C
Pay Mr C £200 compensationUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
Adam Golding
 
Ombudsman