DRN-2996006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE should refund the premium they paid 
for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 17 December 2019, to cover any trips of up to 35 days 
duration taken worldwide. The policy year started on 1 January 2020 and was due to end on 
31 December 2020.
Mr and Mrs S paid £231.14 (excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered her declared medical conditions 
of aortic stenosis and cardiac valve surgery. Mr and Mrs S also paid an additional premium of 
£35.81 (excluding IPT) for optional excess waiver cover. The premium Mr and Mrs S paid for 
their travel insurance policy, including the additional cover options, included a discount of 
£51.16. Mr and Mrs S paid a total of £269.18 for the policy including IPT. 
On about 16 June 2020 Mr and Mrs Ss tour operator cancelled their holiday due to Covid-19 
and Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes to cancel their travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said in relation to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss policy that it couldnt offer a 
full refund as the 14 day 'cooling-off' period had expired, and the policy terms and conditions 
said that no refund will be issued outside of this period.
However, Great Lakes reviewed their cancellation policy due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19. Following the calculation of the pro-rata refund Great Lakes offered a
pro-rata voucher for £93.94 to use towards a new policy. Great Lakes had calculated the 
pro-rata offer from 16 June 2020 until 31 December 2020. Great Lakes hasnt included the 
premium Mr and Mrs S paid for their optional excess waiver cover within its calculations.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Great Lakes. It wrote a final response in August 2020 
reiterating the terms of its offer giving options as follows:
An opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual
policy for the price 12, at the current market rates. This offer is limited time only
and can be withdrawn at any time.
Or the opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a deferred annual
policy. This will be a 12-month policy, at the current market rates. Mr and Mrs S can 
then choose to start the cover at any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy. 
This offer is limited time only and can be withdrawn at any time.
Or, Great Lakes can now offer UK-only annual multi trip policies, where there is a
potential to upgrade the destination area at a later date subject to Terms and
Conditions.
Mr and Mrs S then brought their complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started on 1 January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time.
 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that, 
based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, 
it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata 
refund of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from 16 
June 2020. He thought this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr and Mrs S 
paid for their optional excess waiver cover.
The investigator didnt think the terms of Great Lakes voucher were unreasonably restrictive 
 so he thought the voucher was a fair offer in the circumstances. He recommended that 
Great Lakes should provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for 
their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in the form of a voucher calculated on the 
following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy 
from 16 June 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional excess waiver cover from 16 
June 2020
Great Lakes agreed with the investigators opinion, save that it said the date of the 
cancellation was 12 June 2020. It re-calculated the pro-rata offer as £126.51.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mrs S says, in summary, that:
They are being asked to spend more money on a policy that they have no hope of 
using any time soon. 
They will decide when a holiday will be safe and enjoyable - and that may be a lot 
longer than the 12-month policy on offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, orhave made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im upholding this complaint only in part because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling- off period, so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says no premium will be refunded, 
however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances. The terms of the 
policy refer to individual circumstances, such as a change in a health or 
bereavement. So, I dont think that it is fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
apply that discretion to the circumstances relating to Covid-19, which impacted on 
many policyholders.
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. 
Mr and Mrs S were covered from 1 January 2020 for a number of listed events 
insured under the policy (including cancellation of any holiday due to illness) and I 
dont think theyve been treated unfairly. 
In the circumstances of this case I think the offer of Great Lakes is fair and 
reasonable save for the following two points:
1. Great Lakes should include a pro rata refund of the premium paid for the 
optional excess waiver cover 
2. Great Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing the price paid for the 
policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
I think a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case for the following reasons:
1. Mr and Mrs S entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring 
under the policy  including for her declared medical conditions. Mr and 
Mrs S were able and willing to travel with her declared conditions when 
they took out the policy.
2. While I understand Mr and Mrs Ss reasons for doing so, it was their 
decision to cancel the insurance policy. Paying a refund by way of a 
voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a 
future date. 
3. While it is their decision whether to travel in the future following the impact of the pandemic, I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs Ss health has changed in a way which would prevent them from 
booking holidays within the next year or so.
4. I accept that premiums may increase. But in making the offer of a voucher 
Great Lakes is doing more than its required to do under the relevant 
regulations and the policy terms. 
5. I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered are 
unreasonably restrictive for Mr and Mrs S.   
Putting things right
I will direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata refund of the 
premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in the form of a voucher 
calculated on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy
from 12 June 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional excess waiver cover
cover from 12 June 2020;
The refund should include the proportionate amount of IPT Mr and Mrs S paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata refund of the 
premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in the form of a voucher 
calculated on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic annual multi-trip insurance policy
from 12 June 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional excess waiver cover
cover from 12 June 2020;
The refund should include the proportionate amount of IPT Mr and Mrs S paid on the 
premiums.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman