DRN-1978456
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2011 in connection to her 
mortgage.
 
What happened
Mrs A complained that she wasnt given any choice about having PPI; she thought she had 
to have it; she had enough savings and employee benefits which meant she did not need 
PPI. So she concludes the PPI was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like she was 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for her needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mrs A probably 
would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mrs A disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. She confirmed again she had enough savings and sick pay not to need the PPI.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. I know this 
will be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether YBS made Mrs A aware the policy was optional. She said she 
wasnt given any choice about it. But I looked at the separate PPI application form from 
2011. As it was a separate form, I can reasonably assume she didnt have to instruct YBS 
to complete it at all and so could have declined PPI. So as she had that choice, I think it 
was shown to be an optional product. 
YBS also produced a copy of the meeting notes with the adviser which was held in 2011. 
It was clear from the notes that Mrs A had a detailed discussion about the mortgage and 
the PPI. The notes and the recommendation sent to her were written in a way to show the 
PPI was an optional product. So I am not going to uphold this part of Mrs As complaint.
YBS and Mrs A agreed the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be 
suitable for Mrs As needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mrs A because she was 
eligible for the PPI policy, it seems the policy was affordable for her at the time and, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy.
I then looked into her financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy 
was still suitable for her.
Mrs A said she was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits if she 
was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident. However, having decided she wanted PPI 
and chose to have it, I think Mrs A probably thought the policy provided a valuable benefit 
to her in addition to her employee benefits. I say this because the PPI could have paid out 
for longer than her employee benefits at a time when she might have needed it most. So I 
dont think her employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
She said she had savings too. I saw in the notes of the meeting with the YBS adviser in 
2011 that she told the adviser the savings were to be used for her deposit and home 
improvements. It was also recorded on the notes that she was keeping the savings in an 
account to offset against her mortgage until she needed the savings for the home 
improvements. I think it is reasonable to say Mrs A was intending to keep her savings for 
other uses. So I think it was useful for Mrs A to be able to rely on the PPI policy for 
mortgage repayments instead of using her savings which were to be used for other 
expenses. So I dont think her finances at the time of the sale made the policy unsuitable.
I also looked at whether YBS gave Mrs A enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these out. But 
having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to her in 
the meeting. So as Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and 
affordable for her, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and 
benefits would have put her off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mrs As attention. But as 
she wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think she 
would have decided not to buy PPI even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions.
Taking everything into account, I think she was aware PPI was optional and she consented 
to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for her circumstances and that she had enough clear 
information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman