DRN-3926391
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited improperly handled their contents 
insurance claim and damaged their property.
As the main policyholder and for ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr D in my decision. And any 
reference to Fairmead includes third parties that have acted on the insurers behalf.
What happened
Mr D complained to Fairmead after it declined his claim for a damaged TV, and then sent it 
back to him with additional damage that wasnt present before. Fairmead explained that it 
had declined the claim correctly and passed liability for the additional damage to its third-
party specialist. Mr D was offered a good will gesture of around £600 in vouchers, which he 
didnt accept. Hed also purchased a replacement TV by this point, which he says cost more.
Remaining unhappy, Mr D asked this service to review his complaint. He says Fairmead 
handled the claim poorly and made his and Mrs Ds health conditions worse. Mr D wants 
Fairmead to pay him the correct value of the TV.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that Fairmead had demonstrated how it reached the circa 
£600 voucher value. The investigator concluded that Fairmead acted unfairly and asked it to 
pay Mr D a cash settlement instead  based on the cost of a similar model and specification 
of the TV that was damaged. The investigator also recommended that Fairmead pay £150 to 
Mr D for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Fairmead didnt agree  it says that the TV wasnt covered by the claim at all and so it 
shouldnt be held liable, given its specialist took ownership of paying damages. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its important to reiterate some of the investigators comments about liability. The 
insurer seems to have incorrectly believed it wasnt responsible for the damage caused by 
its third-party specialist or by the courier it used. Mr Ds complaint is about Fairmeads 
handling of the claim. Any third parties appointed to act on the insurers behalf are an agent 
of the insurer. Therefore, Fairmead is responsible for any agents it appoints, as well as 
anyone else appointed by the agent to carry out an activity relevant to the claim. So, contrary 
to what Fairmead may have previously thought, it is indeed responsible for the actions of its 
specialist and can be held liable for the additional damage caused to the TV when it was 
returned to Mr D.
Fairmead seems to have declined the claim fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. I 
can see it relied on its specialists assessment, which was carried out twice after Mr D 
disputed the initial findings. Without any other expert opinion that the TV claim did satisfy the 
terms of a valid claim, I cant conclude that the insurer acted unfairly by declining the claim.
There isnt a dispute that the TV was returned to Mr D with additional damage that didnt 
exist when Fairmeads specialist examined the TV. The report from the specialist doesnt 
note the damage that can be seen on the pictures taken by Mr D after the TV was returned. I 
cant say for certain how or when the damage occurred. But it seems more likely than not 
that the damage took place whilst the TV was under Fairmeads care. So I agree that 
Fairmead should be liable for covering the cost of a replacement. 
Fairmead hasnt demonstrated how it determined the voucher value that it offered Mr D. So 
its unclear if this was simply a figure the insurer arrived at as one it thinks is appropriate, or 
whether Fairmead carried out an actual valuation of Mr Ds TV. The notes on file suggest the 
voucher represented the value of a like-for-like replacement, but Fairmead hasnt evidenced 
how this amount was reached. In my opinion, the fairest approach is to issue a revised 
settlement to Mr D based on the value of the TV that was damaged. So Ill be asking the 
insurer to recalculate the settlement offer based on this.
Mr D says hes already purchased a new TV. I dont think its fair to ask Fairmead to cover 
the cost of the new TV, given the specifications and value of this new TV could exceed that 
of the TV that was damaged. So I share the investigators opinion that the fairest approach is 
for Fairmead to pay a settlement based on the value of a similar TV. Given Mr D had already 
purchased a new TV, I think a cash settlement instead of a voucher is reasonable. 
Mr D expressed concerns about the overall claim handling. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think that Fairmead unfairly delayed the claim. But I can understand that the 
insurers wrongdoing is likely to have aggravated Mr Ds and Mrs Ds medical conditions, 
especially as the TV had a sentimental value. So Ill be asking Fairmead to compensate 
Mr D because of the distress it caused.
For these reasons, Ive decided that Fairmead acted unfairly. It should settle this complaint 
in line with what Ill set out below.
Putting things right
Fairmead is liable for the damage caused to Mr Ds TV. To put things right, Fairmead should:
Pay Mr D a cash settlement  Fairmead should calculate the figure it will pay by 
finding out the value of a similar specification TV to that which was the subject of this 
claim.
Write to Mr D to explain how it has reached its cash settlement figure and provide 
details of the relevant retailer from which the settlement value was determined. 
Pay Mr D £150 compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. To put things right, Fairmead Insurance Limited should settle 
this complaint as per my instructions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman