DRN-4300862
The complaint
Mr D and Miss W complain about the service they received from Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) under their home insurance policy following a claim for storm 
damage.
References to Admiral include its loss adjuster and contractors who are acting on its behalf. 
What happened
On 27 November 2021 Miss W made a claim after damage was caused to her kitchen 
following a named storm. Although the policy is in joint names, Ive referred only to Miss W 
throughout as she pursued the claim on behalf of herself and Mr D. 
Admiral accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster and contractors to carry out the 
work. Miss W was advised that due to the extent of the damage she would need alternative 
accommodation. This was covered under the policy.
On 1 December 2021 Admiral instructed their accommodation bureau to find a suitable 
property for Miss W and her dogs. However, Miss W found a property herself and Admiral 
agreed to cover the cost. This property was only available until 19 December 2021 and Miss 
W voiced her concern to Admiral about this on a number of occasions. Admiral passed this 
information on to its accommodation bureau but in the meantime Miss W found another 
property which was available until 28 December 2021. On 27 December 2021 Miss W 
contacted Admiral to remind it that she had to move the following day and as no suitable 
alternative was found she moved back into her house.
Admiral made further enquiries and offered Miss W a property which didnt take pets. As this 
meant her dogs would have to go into kennels Miss W turned this down. She then sourced 
her own accommodation from 17 January 2022 to 3 March 2022 which Admiral approved. 
Miss W visited the house in February 2022 and found that work hadnt started. Admiral said 
that works had been approved and would begin shortly. Miss W reminded Admiral that the 
current accommodation was due to end soon and she was advised that it had been unable 
to find a suitable property which would take dogs. Miss W therefore arranged another short 
term let to 3 April 2022.
In March 2022 Miss W contacted Admiral to express her concern that works had not yet 
begun. Admiral advised that a structural engineer was due to attend the property, and 
scaffolding was being erected. In April 2022 Admiral agreed that Miss W could extend her 
accommodation for a further month and said that the structural engineers report had been 
received so work should begin.
In May 2022 Miss W complained to Admiral about the management of her claim and in 
particular about the delayed start, poor service and having to move eight times between 
properties. Miss W continued to contact Admiral for updates and Admiral approved a further 
move to different accommodation up until 18 June 2022. Miss W was advised that work 
would begin on a number of different dates which didnt happen. Admiral then responded to 
her complaint and accepted that their service fell below standard and that the claim was not 
handled in a timely manner. It offered £600 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
However, it didnt uphold the complaint in relation to the alternative accommodation as it 
didnt accept that Miss W had moved to eight different properties. 
Miss W didnt accept the compensation and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought that the £600 compensation Admiral had already offered for the delay 
and lack of claim management was fair. However, she thought that Admiral had not treated 
Miss W fairly in relation to the alternative accommodation and that it should pay an additional 
£300 compensation. Admiral accepted our decision, but Miss W didnt think it reflected the 
inconvenience caused and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals final response to Miss Ws complaint was in July 2022 and so my focus is on the 
areas of complaint up until this date. I understand there is a separate complaint regarding 
later issues. 
Admiral accepts that its level of service fell below standard. An important part of our role is to 
say how an insurer should put right the impact of its mistake which includes looking at the 
emotional or practical impact. We wouldnt usually make a specific award for someones 
time, but we do factor in the inconvenience someone may have experienced spending time 
dealing with a matter.
Ive looked carefully at all the information provided and I think its clear that there were 
considerable delays resulting in distress and inconvenience for Miss W. At the time of Miss 
Ws complaint to Admiral in May 2022, the work hadnt started. I accept that there may have 
been some delay, as Admiral says, due to the number of claims made following the storm. 
There was also mention of possible asbestos and delays in sourcing bricks. However, this 
doesnt explain the extent of the delay. Admiral accepts there were problems with its 
contractors, particularly the roofers  resulting in delays to the start date. Admiral is 
responsible for the actions of its agents, and I think Admiral could have managed the claim 
better to keep on top of progress from the start.
Admiral should also have kept Miss W updated with progress and I cant see that it did this. 
It was Miss W that chased Admiral and the loss adjuster regularly for updates. When start 
dates were given to Miss W they werent adhered to - and Miss W wasnt informed. It was 
only when Miss W made visits to the property that she found out that work hadnt begun. 
Admiral says that Miss W only stayed in four alternative accommodations rather than eight. 
Miss W says that she wasnt referring to eight different properties but that she had already 
moved six times and was anticipating a further two moves. Admiral hasnt been able to 
provide details of the accommodation Miss W stayed in, so Ive relied on information 
provided by Miss W. I can see that she moved seven times between December 2021 and 
July 2022. One of these moves was back to her own property when she had nowhere else to 
go  despite it being uninhabitable. Moving this number of times would have been both 
disruptive and inconvenient.
I note that Miss W sourced all the properties herself. Admiral says that its accommodation 
bureau was unable to find suitable properties because of the dogs. It did offer Miss W a 
longer term property, but this involved the dogs going into kennels and understandably Miss 
W didnt want to do this. I appreciate that accommodating the dogs would have narrowed the options, but Miss W was able to find suitable short term accommodation and I think it would 
have been reasonable for Admiral to have offered more assistance. 
I also note that Miss W had to chase Admiral towards the end of each of her tenancies to 
remind it that she would need to move. This would have been stressful for Miss W 
particularly bearing in mind the uncertainty of where she would be going. I think Admiral 
could have managed this situation better and kept in more regular contact. 
Miss W spent around seven months out of her home up until July 2022. She was always 
going to have to move out of her home after the damage and stay in alternative 
accommodation for a period of time. This wasnt Admirals fault. However, I think the time 
spent out of her home is likely to have been shorter had the claim been handled better. 
This must have been a very difficult and stressful time for Mr D and Miss W and I dont think 
Admiral treated them fairly. I think that a total of £900 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is reasonable  this includes the £600 already offered. 
Admiral has said that it would consider paying any additional expenses that Mr D and Miss 
W incurred travelling to work from the alternative accommodation, which was out of their 
usual area. Im not sure if this has been done but if Mr D and Miss W can provide evidence 
of this to Admiral, I think its reasonable to expect Admiral to pay any additional travel costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay Mr D and Miss W a total of £900 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience  less the £600 compensation if this has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman