DRN-2174577
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc defaulted her account after she amended a 
payment plan for a couple of months, while she was unwell.
What happened
Miss M said shed set up a payment plan with Santander to clear an overdraft on her 
account. She contacted Santander in February 2019 to say shed been signed off work sick, 
and wouldnt be able to make a lump sum payment that was scheduled in for that month. 
Miss M reached an agreement on that call to pay £20 per month for the next couple of 
months. Santander also told her on that call that shed need to call back in April to reset her 
plan. 
Miss M said she had no recollection of being told this at the time due to her illness.  
Miss M said she didnt find out that her account was going to be defaulted until after it 
happened. Santander had been sending letters to her old address, but she said shed 
spoken to Santander in April to update her address. 
Miss M said it was very unfair to put this default on her credit file, when shed never missed a 
payment to Santander. She wanted Santander to clear the debt on her account, and to 
remove the default.
Santander didnt think that it had made a mistake. It had a call recording which showed that 
Miss M had been told she needed to call Santander back in April. She didnt do that. 
Santander said it had been writing to Miss M at the address it held for her. It showed us the 
letter it sent on 15 April, saying it would soon be in contact about a default on her account, 
and explaining how this would affect her. And Santander showed us the letter it sent on 16 
April which said she had 28 days to pay in full. These letters were sent to the address 
Santander held for Miss M. Santander said it had no evidence Miss M had called to change 
her address until 18 June 2019, which was well after the default had been applied.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had been 
clear that Miss M would need to call after the second payment. If she didnt, Santander 
explained that would affect her account and credit score. Our investigator hadnt been able 
to find any evidence that Miss M had told Santander about her new address. So it wasnt 
Santanders fault that Miss M didnt get the letters it sent out about her account. Our 
investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said shed been signed off work and that her illness could cause 
long term memory problems. She said shed tried to explain this to Santander after the 
default was applied but Santander didnt care. She said she didnt remember that she was 
supposed to call Santander, and if she had, she wouldve called. She said she actually paid 
more than Santander told her to. 
Miss M said shed never missed a payment to Santander. So it was unjust to default her 
account, just because she hadnt also called Santander back. She said she kept making her 
payments in May and June, after the default. 
Miss M said she had checked her diary, and now knew it was on 4 April that she changed 
her address on a call to Santander. She said she was certain of this, but hadnt recorded the 
call, and asked how she was supposed to prove this?
Miss M said that the law requires Santander to give her time to try to pay, or sort the 
situation out with it. But she said that she lost the chance to do that, because letters were 
sent to the wrong address. If Santander had called or emailed in this time, then the problem 
wouldve been avoided. 
Miss M said wed focussed on the payments she made, £30 on 22 March, £60 on 1 April and 
£90 on 30 April. She said that she didnt think it was a negative thing for her to have paid 
more than she initially thought she could afford. The account had now been paid off, and all 
she wanted was the default to be removed. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
When Miss M spoke to Santander, she owed £1,690.93. She had been in a payment plan for 
some time, with a monthly repayment of £90. Her monthly payments werent going to be 
enough to clear her debt. But she and Santander were both expecting that she could also 
pay a lump sum from a maturing investment. 
When Miss M became ill, she said shed need to spend that lump sum elsewhere, so she 
wasnt able to do that. 
Santander was happy to reduce Miss Ms monthly payment to well under £90, for a couple of 
months. But it said that would then affect the repayments that she would need to make in 
future. 
Santander said that the longest it could run a payment plan for was 15 months. I think thats 
a reasonable approach for Santander to take. 
Santander already knew that a monthly payment of £90 wasnt going to be enough to pay 
the whole of Miss Ms debt within 15 months. And if she wasnt going to pay the lump sum 
either, Santander said it would need to change Miss Ms monthly repayment, once she was 
feeling better.
Santander set up a reduced payment plan for Miss M for a couple of months, so she didnt 
have to pay as much while she was off sick. It then said that after two payments were made, 
Miss M needed to ring back and reset her plan. Santander explained that she would then 
need to pay more than the £90 shed previously agreed, probably more like £115. Santander didnt just say once to Miss M that shed need to call back. As part of arranging a 
new, lower, payment, and agreeing that Santander wouldnt get the lump sum it was 
expecting, Santander had a detailed discussion with Miss M of the amounts she would owe, 
and how this would affect her. It calculated figures twice, redoing the sums once shed said 
she would pay £90 the day after her call. 
Miss M actively participated in this call, and agreed to ring Santander back. 
I dont doubt what Miss M has said about not recalling that she had to ring Santander back. 
But I dont think Santander couldve known from this call that Miss M wasnt taking on board 
what was being said to her. 
So Santander understood that Miss M would be calling back in April, to set up a new 
payment plan on her account. When she didnt do that, Santander started to write to her to 
say that her account could be defaulted. But it was writing to her old address, so Miss M 
didnt get the letters.
Miss M said that was Santanders fault. She was confident shed given it her new address on 
a call on 4 April, when she rang Santander. She said on that call she also spoke to 
Santander about installing the banking app on her new phone. 
Ive listened to the call that Miss M had with Santander on that date. She does discuss 
installing the app on her new phone, and gets some information she needed to do that. But 
she didnt mention she had a new address on that call. So I dont think its Santanders fault 
that Miss M didnt get the letters it was sending her. 
As well as sending her letters, I can see that Santander made lots of attempts to contact 
Miss M by phone, in April and early May. And the number it was ringing then is the same as 
the number Miss M gave us for this case, so I think it was the right number. 
I dont think Santander just waited for Miss M to call back, and then defaulted her account 
when she didnt. I think Santander tried really hard to get in touch with Miss M, but she 
hadnt given it her new address, and she didnt answer her phone. 
Because Santander explained to Miss M that she wasnt paying enough to avoid a default 
and needed to reset her plan after illness, then tried repeatedly to contact her to do this, I 
dont think its Santanders fault that Miss M has a default on her account now. And I dont 
think this default is there solely because Miss M forgot to ring Santander back. 
I dont think Santander has been unfair or unreasonable. So I dont think that Santander has 
to remove this default. 
I know Miss M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman