DRN-1921833
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC shared information about his account without 
his authority.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Barclays when he was a minor. At that time, parents had 
access to their children's accounts, and so Mr C's account was linked to accounts his 
parents held. When Mr C turned 18 he updated his account to remove the parental link; 
he assumed this had been done. 
In fact, Barclays didn't remove the link and Mr C's parents remained able to view his 
account. When Mr C complained, Barclays acknowledged its error, agreed to remove the 
link and paid Mr C £350, which he accepted. 
Mr C said that, whilst Barclays removed the link that enabled his parents to view his account, 
other associations remained. Specifically, he referred to mail addressed to him at his 
parents' address, even though they had moved house and he had never lived there. 
Some weeks later, Mr C says, his parents received a text message inviting them to discuss 
their accounts. When they did that, Barclays began discussing Mr C's own account. So, 
whilst his parents could no longer access Mr C's account, it seemed that it was still linked to 
them in its own systems. 
Barclays acknowledged again that the link hadn't been fully removed and offered Mr C a 
further payment of £150 in compensation. It also provided assurances that appropriate 
adjustments had been made to his account and all links removed. Mr C didn't think this went 
far enough and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He took the view though that the 
action Barclays had taken and the compensation it had offered was enough to resolve the 
complaint. Mr C didn't agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no real dispute about the facts here. Nor is there any dispute that Barclays shouldn't 
have shared information about Mr C's account with his parents - either by allowing them 
access to his account or by discussing it. Nor should the bank have sent mail addressed to 
Mr C to his parents' address. I agree with Mr C too that the bank should have resolved the 
issue in full when it first came to light; instead, it seems that it only partly resolved it. It seems 
likely that there were breaches of data protection legislation, as well as of the bank's 
contractual duty of confidentiality to its customer. In addition, the bank's administration and 
complaint-handling could and should have been better. Mr C has said that he would like reassurance that Barclays has implemented better systems  
and procedures and provided training to ensure that what happened to him doesn't happen 
to other customers. This service however was set up to deal with individual complaints, so 
that's not something I can require the bank to do. He may however wish to raise any 
concerns he has with the Information Commissioner.
What I must do is decide how Barclays should resolve Mr C's complaint. To a large extent, 
that means I must decide whether its offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances. I 
don't under-estimate the trouble that Mr C's been put to here or the frustration he's suffered. 
Whilst he suffered no actual loss and says he has a good relationship with his parents, I 
quite understand why he wouldn't want them to know about his financial affairs. 
I've taken all of these factors into account in considering whether Barclays' offer goes far 
enough. On balance, although the further offer of £150 is towards the lower end of what I'd 
consider reasonable, I don't propose to require the bank to increase it. It's within the range 
that I think fair in the circumstances. I shall therefore simply leave it to Mr C to decide 
whether, on reflection, he wishes to accept it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman