DRN-3821143
The complaint
Mr N complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt refunded him payments he 
made to a supermarket for faulty goods. He also complains RBS closed his account.  
What happened
In October 2020, Mr N bought an electronic tablet from a supermarket, but needed it 
replaced as it was not working properly. The supermarket replaced it. Mr N says the 
replacement was also faulty, but the supermarket didnt help him with it. 
Mr N complained about this to RBS as the payment was made from his account with it. In 
summary, RBS said the following in its response: 
- RBS works closely with both chargeback schemes to help its customers under the 
terms and conditions of the relevant scheme  
- When a disputed transaction arises upon an account, RBS has no direct contact with 
individual retailers. Any investigation needs to be done directly with the retailers 
bank, and in accordance with the relevant scheme rules
- This procedure is known as a chargeback and is the same procedure all card 
issuers would have to adhere to. RBS can only help in certain instances, and it has to 
follow strict timescales for any claim to be valid
- In relation to the dispute with the supermarket, RBS had responded in time, but it 
hasnt received the required documents to qualify for the dispute
- RBS must follow strict terms and conditions of the scheme provider, and it doesnt 
have a say in the dispute itself. In certain disputes, the card scheme provider 
requests evidence to be presented to show wrongdoing. As Mr N hasnt provided the 
information requested, RBS cannot proceed without it 
- RBS appreciate Mr N cant obtain the required documents, but without this RBS has 
no recourse to the chargeback scheme
- RBS acknowledge Mr N feels like its asking Mr N to go into the supermarket when 
he has said he is vulnerable and cant do so. But RBS isnt asking Mr N to go into the 
supermarket  it wouldnt ask a customer to compromise their health in this way
- The supermarket said they could resolve the matter for Mr N, but the goods would 
need to be returned to store. This doesnt mean Mr N himself has to go. RBS urged 
Mr N to contact the supermarket and arrange for the goods to be picked up  
something they can do
Unhappy with RBS, Mr N referred his complaint to this service. 
In May 2021, RBS wrote to Mr N and said that in line with its terms and conditions, his 
account will be closed in sixty days from the date of the letter. But it would provide Mr N with 
its full banking service up until that point. Mr N wanted this to be considered under his 
complaint too. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. They said they would need to 
consider whether RBS acted fairly by not pursuing the chargeback claim and closing Mr Ns 
account. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. In short, they said: 
- Chargeback systems are voluntary processes banks can follow to help a card holder 
resolve a dispute. The disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants 
under the relevant card scheme
- Before a card issuer can instigate a chargeback, we would want to see the 
cardholder has tried to sort things out with the merchant first - often a requirement of 
the card scheme rules. 
- Mr N said the supermarket would only issue a refund or replacement if he took the 
tablet into them. Our Investigator appreciated it was difficult for Mr N to go to the 
supermarket, but its likely the chargeback would have been declined. Thats 
because the merchant bank was presenting options to try and resolve the dispute 
- As a voluntary scheme, the card issuer has the right to not pursue chargeback if 
there are no reasonable grounds for succuss. RBS has done nothing wrong 
- RBS gave Mr N the correct notice period to the close the account in line with its 
terms and conditions 
Mr N didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He says the supermarket flatly declined to 
give a refund and never offered him the option to collect the tablet. 
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr N, 
so Ill explain why. 
Id like to assure Mr N that Ive carefully considered everything hes said, including in the 
calls Ive been able to listen to with RBS. I note hes said the supermarket wouldnt take the 
tablet back via post, and how his medical condition  if he went out - made him vulnerable 
during the pandemic. 
As Mr N was not able to resolve the matter with the supermarket directly, he asked RBS to 
resolve his dispute. In order to do so, given Mr N paid for the tablet on his debit car, RBS 
would need to raise a chargeback. That is the process by which settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants under the relevant card scheme.  
The card issuer here is RBS. Broadly speaking, before a card issuer can instigate a 
chargeback, this service would want to see that the cardholder has tried to sort things out 
with the merchant. This is often a requirement of the card scheme rules. This is also 
pragmatic given it means merchants can sort things out directly with the customer without the need to involve the respective banks. 
Mr N says the supermarket didnt allow him to return the replacement tablet by mail, nor did 
it offer to pick it up. He says they insisted he come into the supermarket with it. As Ive said 
already, Mr N has told us why he wasnt able to go to the supermarket because of a health 
condition. 
Having looked at the evidence Ive been given, Im persuaded Mr N could have done more to 
sort things out with the merchant. I say that because his bank statement show he was able 
to withdraw cash from an ATM machine and make other points of sale payments around the 
same time he purchased the tablet.   
It's possible Mr N had asked someone he trusted to make these cash withdrawals, and 
make payments to other retailers  though I havent seen evidence he told RBS about this, 
or had such an arrangement in place. None the less, if I accept he did, he could equally have 
asked this individual to take the tablet into the supermarket to resolve his settlement dispute. 
So given what Ive said above, Im satisfied that had this dispute been presented to the 
relevant scheme, it had little or no prospect of succuss. So because of this, and as Mr N 
could have done more to settle it with the merchant, RBS has done nothing wrong by not 
instigating the chargeback. 
RBS is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before RBS closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which RBS and Mr N had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving him at least 60 days notice. And in certain circumstances 
it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by RBS, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done. So it hasnt done anything wrong by doing so. Mr N 
hasnt said how RBS decision to close his account in this way impacted upon him  but this 
isnt something Id need to consider - given I dont think it did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman