DRN-3776686
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined their claim on their home 
insurance policy. AXA say Mr and Mrs H are underinsured.
Mr H has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only in the 
remainder of this decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In February 2022, Mr H made a claim for storm damage which was initially declined by AXA 
as it said the weather conditions didnt meet its criteria for storm.
Mr H was able to provide some further information, so AXA sent its contractor to do an 
enhanced claim validation report. It accepted the garden retaining wall had fallen due to 
storm however it noted that Mr H was underinsured by 98% for the outbuildings on his 
policy.
Mr H thinks he has been misled by the definition of outbuildings and thought he was properly 
insured as his buildings cover is up to £1,000,000.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H didnt agree, he said our investigator had 
considered the wrong policy document he also felt that the sequence of the process had not 
been appreciated. So, he asked for his complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said our investigator has looked at the most recent policy document not the one 
that was covering at time of incident. Mr H provided his policy document but having checked 
it I see this was issued in 2015. Ive checked Mr Hs renewal documents that were sent to 
him in December 2021.This clearly tells him that this replaces the current policy and the key 
changes are at the end of the document and the full policy wording can be found on the 
website and it provided the website address. Im therefore satisfied the 2021 document is the 
correct one to review when considering this claim. 
The crux of Mr Hs argument is he felt he had insured all his property genuinely for the right 
amount. But he understood the definition of outbuildings to be different to what has been 
specified in the policy document and this has led to him being underinsured for this part of 
the policy. 
I appreciate Mr H has said when he first took out the policy, he says he was asked the cost 
of rebuilding the property. Mr H says he took property to mean all of what was in his 
boundary (including boundary walls) and thought £1,000,000 would cover this. 
And Mr H doesnt dispute he was also told that the policy included £7,500 cover for 
outbuildings and was asked if this was sufficient.  Mr H says he does have one outbuilding 
and he wasnt bothered if it was insured or not as he was considering demolishing it. So, he 
says he clicked yes to this question. But Mr H says he wasnt aware of what else was 
included as outbuildings. He says he didnt realise that the £1,000,000 wouldnt cover 
everything. 
If an insurer has defined terms - words that have a specific meaning, we expect to see 
these words to be listed in the definitions section of the policy.  I can see in this case 
outbuilding(s) has been defined it says:
Fixed structures or buildings detached from the Home located within the Boundary that You 
are legally responsible for. 
Outbuildings include but are not limited to: 
detached garages, sheds, boundary or garden walls, fences, tennis courts, swimming 
pools, external car ports, driveways, patios, artificial lawns, septic tanks, soakaways 
or sewage treatment centres.
So, this definition will supersede what Mr H may think the everyday meaning of outbuilding 
is. The policy also includes a couple of diagrams that are colour coded to go with the written 
definition. Im persuaded the definition is clear and the diagrams add extra clarity. 
Ive gone onto look at Mr Hs renewal documents that were sent to him in December 2021. 
This clearly says Its important to review your policy documents each year to make sure it 
meets your needs; especially as you have been with us a number of years  I appreciate 
Mr H said he didnt feel he needed to check his understanding of outbuildings but it is 
important for customers to check all the documents to make sure the cover meets their 
needs. 
On Mr Hs schedule there is a clear breakdown of the insured sums, this shows buildings 
cover at £1,000,000, and outbuildings cover at £7,500 it goes on to breakdown contents etc. 
Next to each cover it refers you to the relevant part of the policy document, in this case 
Section 1 is listed for both building and outbuildings cover.
Looking at Section 1 in the policy  Buildings cover it says under what is covered Buildings 
Cover is designed to protect Your Home and Outbuildings against the full range of risks 
(called Insured Losses) summarised below. . I note all the capitalised words -Buildings 
Cover, Home and Outbuildings are defined in the definitions. Im satisfied the terms are 
clear. 
I can see the amount Mr H is wanting to claim is less than the total amount of outbuildings 
cover. However, in cases like this where under insurance has been shown its reasonable for 
AXA to pay a proportion of the claim depending on the percentage amount underinsured. 
AXA has said that Mr H is 98% underinsured. This would make his claim less than the 
excess payable leaving nothing for AXA to pay.So, in summary Im satisfied that outbuilding(s) is clearly defined, the schedule shows the 
breakdown of the insured cover and Mr H was informed of the importance of checking his 
policy documents at renewal. AXA have fairly stated this would lead to a proportionate 
payment but there wouldnt be anything due to pay. Im satisfied this is in line with the policy 
terms and what wed expect, so I wont be asking AXA to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman