DRN-4166307
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has treated them 
unfairly by refusing to consider their request for a term extension on their interest-only 
mortgage until an Income & Expenditure form (I&E) was completed. Mr and Mrs C are also 
unhappy that Halifax considered their proposed repayment vehicle for the mortgage to be 
unsuitable.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs C want Halifax to extend the term of their mortgage and 
offer them a new fixed interest rate product.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly. He noted that Mr and Mrs C had 
declined to complete the I&E (which they didnt think was necessary). However, as Mr and 
Mrs C had wanted to make material changes to the mortgage, the investigator thought it was 
reasonable for Halifax to ask for this. 
Because the application hadnt proceeded, the bank hadnt considered the suitability of the 
repayment vehicle. However, having noted the banks confidential criteria about suitable 
repayment vehicles, the investigator explained that he didnt think the proposed repayment 
vehicle would have met Halifaxs criteria in any event.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say that, for previous interest rate product switches, they had never needed to 
provide an I&E. However, those were simply rate switches with no other changes to the 
mortgage. Because Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage had less time left on the term than the 
shortest fixed-rate product offered by Halifax, the only way they could get a new interest rate 
product would be by extending the term.
A term extension is a change to the original mortgage, and thus allows Halifax to consider 
affordability. This is provided for in the regulations, which state that, where there is a material 
change to the mortgage, Halifax is entitled to assess the application against its lending 
criteria. This includes consideration of both affordability (by looking at the I&E) and whether 
or not the proposed repayment vehicle is suitable. 
Im satisfied, therefore, that it was reasonable for Halifax to request the I&E. Because 
Mr and Mrs C declined to complete this, the application didnt proceed. That was their 
choice, and so Im unable to find that Halifax treated them unfairly. Halifax is under a 
regulatory obligation to ensure any lending is affordable, and so if Halifax is being asked to 
extend the mortgage beyond its original end date, affordability is relevant and something the 
bank needs to take into account.
No I&E was completed and so Halifax wasnt able to progress the application to the point 
where it needed to consider whether or not the proposed repayment vehicle for the interest-
only mortgage was suitable. However, Ive looked at the information Halifax has provided to 
us about this. As it is commercially sensitive, I am entitled to treat it as confidential. Im 
satisfied that, even if Mr and Mrs C had completed the I&E and passed the affordability 
assessment, the application for a term extension would probably not have met Halifaxs 
criteria in relation to the proposed repayment vehicle in any event.
Overall, Im unable to find Halifax has done anything wrong.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. There is nothing to prevent them 
from making an application to Halifax for a term extension, if they are prepared to complete 
the I&E and if they have a suitable repayment vehicle. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs C are free to 
re-mortgage to a new lender, and to that end they might find it helpful to speak to an 
independent financial adviser. They can find details of IFAs in their area from the Financial 
Conduct Authority website at www.fca.org.uk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman