DRN-3629504
The complaint
Mr V has complained about his car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it said his 
car was a category B write-off and it wouldnt change that even when he presented it with 
evidence from his own engineer. 
What happened
Mr Vs home and the surrounding area were flooded. Whilst Mr V was trying to protect his 
home, he heard the alarm sound on his car. Realising that water would soon enter the 
engine bay if he did nothing, Mr V started and moved the car. He called UKI a few days later 
to make a claim. He told it the gearbox had been water damaged, water had come out of the 
air vents, there were a lot of warning lights on the dashboard and the reverse lights were 
permanently on. He said there had been water in the footwell, personal belongings in the car 
had been damaged and the water had risen to the bottom of the seats. He said the water 
was a mix of rain and sewage.
UKI accepted the claim. Mr Vs car was taken to its salvage yard and it was confirmed the 
water had reached seat level, with the boot wet as well. UKI had also noted Mr Vs 
description of what had happened and it had viewed a video he had sent of flood levels in 
his home. UKI declared the car a category B total loss.
Mr V had told UKI thought that he wanted to keep his car. So UKI said it would pay him the 
vehicles value less the policy excess and an amount for salvage. It then returned the car to 
Mr V. Mr V had the car repaired (for around £2,000) and obtained an engineers report. He 
sent the report to UKI. UKI felt the report showed it should never have settled the claim and 
it told Mr V it wanted its claim outlay back. But UKI then revised that position. Upon review 
UKI said its original total loss decision had been correct. However, it realised it had caused 
Mr V upset and inconvenience in the way it had handled things and offered him a total of 
£400 compensation. Mr V said that didnt resolve matters  what should be done, he said 
was for the categorisation of his vehicle to be changed, even if that meant him giving some 
money back to UKI. When UKI wouldnt change its mind, Mr V complained to us.
Our investigator felt that, in the circumstances, UKI should be looking to amend the write-off 
category. He suggested Mr V pay it back part of the settlement in exchange. Mr V agreed. 
UKI initially looked to mediate thing, and said it might look to do this if Mr V paid it back a 
larger sum. But upon review it said this couldnt be done. UKI explained that, in its view, the 
categorisation had been correctly applied and, therefore, it couldnt reasonably be changed. 
Our investigator said he still felt that was unfair  given further details Mr V had given to him 
(which were shared with UKI) and the findings of his engineer. When UKI wouldnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt UKI had got some things wrong  but not the categorisation of the car. I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my views on everything and what I felt UKI needed to do to 
put things right. My findings from that decision were:
I know Mr V thinks UKI shouldnt have categorised the car as B  break for parts only. 
However, I think that, in this respect, UKI gave a fair and reasonable answer when it said it 
had made the right decision which couldnt be changed. 
UKI subscribes to an industry code of practice. This code is supported by the DVLA and its 
purpose is to ensure that damaged cars are categorised consistently, as well as ensuring 
that dangerously damaged cars arent returned to the road. The code requires that cars 
given a category B classification are broken only for parts. And to ensure this occurs the 
subscribers to the code, such as UKI, usually take ownership of the car once settlement for 
the loss is paid. The subscribers wont usually allow a policyholder to take the car back, not 
unless it is going to or is collected by a breakers yard with appropriate paperwork. To return 
a car to a policyholder (not their breakers yard) defats the safety objective of preventing 
dangerously damaged cars returning to the road. 
The code says that a car should be a category B write-off where it is damaged by 
contaminated or polluted water, and/or where any water has affected the electronics. Here 
Mr Vs account of the flood suggested that had indeed happened. Later he said there may 
not have been sewage water, and he may have been mistaken about how and where the 
water was in the car. But Ive heard the call where Mr V detailed the event. He was clear and 
calm about everything that had happened and the damage he had witnessed. Im not 
persuaded he was likely labouring under any misconception when providing this detail, both 
about the water likely containing sewage and that the cars electrics were affected.
More than that though, I think it is fair to say that a flash flood like that which occurred when 
Mr Vs car was damaged, usually contains an element of contaminated/polluted water. That 
is because it isnt just that excessively heavy rain occurs which then floods home and 
property. Rather its usually the case that excessive rain causes rivers and drains to 
overflow. And the combined rain, drain and river water then floods the area. Whilst Mr Vs 
engineer said the car had likely been affected only by rain water Im not persuaded that is 
likely a reasonable conclusion given the nature of the flooding which occurred. Im also 
mindful that the engineer didnt see the car until after it had been repaired and seems to 
have been unaware of the extent of flooding which occurred at this time, referring to the car 
having been found in a puddle. 
So I think its fair to say that the car was most likely affected by contaminated water whether 
or not it contained sewage. And it also seems to be quite clearly the case, whether the water 
was contaminated or not, that the water affected the cars electronics. So I think UKIs act of 
classifying the car as a category B write-off was fair and reasonable.
For me, where UKI went wrong, was in returning the car to Mr V. In line with the code and 
the usual industry practice which stems from that, UKI should have kept and disposed of the 
car. If it had Mr V would have received a higher settlement (because UKI deducted £3,030 to 
allow him to keep the car). He would also not have incurred the cost for repairing the car. 
I also think he wouldnt have had the cost of the engineers report. I note UKIs file refers to 
that fact that in returning the car to Mr V it effectively encouraged him to challenge its 
decision on the write-off category, so it should refund the costs he incurred. I think thats a 
reasonable response. All sums will be subject to interest payments.
However, as I mentioned above, the net result of UKI making these payments is that the car 
will become its. It will need to collect the car from Mr V and arrange for its disposal. I know 
that will seem unfair to Mr V as he feels the car is in perfect working order. But the code says 
cars categorised a B must be disposed of. And if UKI had handled this as it should have 
done, that is what would always have happened. So my award puts Mr V back in the position 
he would always have been in but for UKIs error. Mr V has reported that he hasnt been able to use his car. I understand that, but Im aware 
this is not the only car Mr V has access to. And when he spoke to UKI to report the loss he 
said he had last used the car for fun. I think that matches the nature of this car  it isnt one 
that is usually used for every day driving. So Ill bear in mind the frustration Mr V has faced 
at not being able to use the car (when he was expecting to have been able to) when making 
my compensation award. But I wont be making a separate award to him to account of loss 
of use of the car (which is an award I sometimes make where someone has had no use of 
any car due to an insurers fault). 
I think this claim, due to UKIs failures, dragged on for far longer than it needed to. And that 
Mr V ended up going to a lot of fruitless effort as well. If UKI had acted to keep the car in the 
beginning of August 2021, rather than returning it to Mr V, everything that happened after 
would have been avoided. Instead it was November 2021 before UKI confirmed its final 
positions. And in the middle of all that, UKI had told Mr V that it was actually going to 
completely reverse its claim decision by declining it and asking him to repay its substantial 
settlement sum. As I said, Mr V also wasnt able to use the car. I think, in the circumstances 
here, £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. UKI has offered and or paid £400 in 
total to date (£50 and £350). If those sums have been paid to Mr V then it will now, if my final 
decision remains the same and Mr V accepts it, only need to pay him anything outstanding.
As I said above, I know my provisional findings will likely disappoint Mr V. But Ive found that 
UKI didnt fail him in respect of classifying the car as a category B write-off. Which means 
I cant reasonably require UKI to amend that classification. If Mr V keeps the car, it is unlikely 
hell be able to sell it  because the DVLA will have it marked for disposal. And its also 
unlikely hell be able to insure it in order to use it himself. So he cant use or sell it due to the 
category and I cant reasonably make UKI change the category. But what I can do is make 
UKI pay him a fair settlement for the claim and compensation to account for his financial and 
non-financial loss caused by its errors. And that is what Ive sought to do here.
UKI said the repair estimate it saw for Mr Vs car was only for £295, so it is concerned how it 
increased to £1,815.60. It said an invoice or receipt, rather than an estimate, to evidence 
Mr Vs financial loss should be provided. 
Mr V reiterated that his call to UKI to report the incident was made at a time of great stress. 
He said this means his observations at the time may not have been correct and his engineer 
said it was likely water had only entered via the drainage channel, which is situated in the 
vicinity of the air vents. He said if UKI had inspected and reported on the car properly it 
would have known this. Mr V said theres no evidence of anything other than rainwater 
entering the car, so the categorisation should be changed. He said hed completed other 
work on the car because UKI said it would be. Mr V said he was surprised that no 
compensation had been suggested, given how much upset this had caused him.
Mr V said the car is very special to him and he really wants to retain it for himself, even if just 
for use off-road. So Mr V proposed a compromise that would allow him to keep the vehicle. 
His proposal was put to UKI. UKI said it couldnt agree to it due to the car being a category B 
write-off and the obligations it has under the code to ensure that cars categorised in that way 
are disposed of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKIs refusal of Mr Vs proposal is reasonable. With the car being a category B 
write-off, UKI is bound to not allow it to return to the road. Whilst UKI clearly made a mistake in this respect before, I cant reasonably expect it to knowingly overlook its obligations in 
order to agree to Mr Vs proposal.
UKI was sent the repair estimate by Mr V before Mr V complained to us. UKIs file refers to it 
showing repair costs of £295. But £295 was just part of the estimated cost. The total was 
always £1,815.60. The estimate was also seen by Mr Vs engineer. He confirmed that the 
repairs had been done and that the costs for that work set out in the estimate were fair and 
reasonable. And he viewed the car less than a week after the date of the estimate. So Im 
satisfied that Mr V had these repairs done, at the stated cost and that its reasonable to 
require UKI to reimburse them, plus interest* from the date of the estimate.  
I considered previously what Mr V had said about his initial report of the incident to UKI, as 
well as the content of his engineers report. In my provisional decision I explained why, even 
taking that into account, I felt UKI had made a fair decision to deem the car a category B 
write-off. I understand that UKI not inspecting the car initially has caused some frustration for 
Mr V. But I think its enquiries were proportionate and reasonable given the circumstances. 
Nothing Mr V has said in reply gives me cause to change my provisional view, so Im not 
going to require UKI to change the write-off category.
I know UKI agreed to review the categorisation if Mr V got his own engineers report. But 
I dont see it ever guaranteed that it would change the category. And when Mr V sent his 
report to UKI, he knew it was considering its content. UKI then confirmed that it would not be 
changing the category, and Mr V complained to us. If Mr V completed other repairs to his 
car, Im not convinced I can reasonably make UKI reimburse that outlay.  
I did consider compensation in my provisional decision. I explained that I felt a total of £500 
was warranted here  but that if UKI has paid any part of that sum already, it will only now (if 
Mr V accepts my final decision) need to pay the difference remaining.
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Pay Mr V £3,030 being the sum for salvage deducted from its original settlement, plus 
interest* from 6 August 2021 until settlement is made.
Pay Mr V £1,815,60 being his repair costs for the car, plus interest* from 
22 September 2021 (the date of the estimate) until settlement is made.
Reimburse Mr V the cost of his engineers report, plus interest* from the date he paid for 
this until settlement is made.
Pay Mr V a total of £500 compensation. If any part of this has been paid already, only the 
amount outstanding will now have to be paid. 
Once the settlement amounts have been paid, arrange to collect the car for disposal.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman