DRN-2207195
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.
Our adjudicator concluded the PPI hadnt been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 16 September 2020. I said I was minded 
to uphold the complaint, and Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
I didnt think Barclaycard gave Mr H clear enough information about the policy. This 
was because I thought it was unlikely that Barclaycard explained that the premium 
would be added to Mr Hs credit card balance and would attract interest. 
I also thought it was unlikely that Barclaycard pointed out that the benefit was less 
than 10% in real terms, because Mr H would have to continue paying the premium 
while receiving the policy benefit.
I thought this would have mattered to Mr H because hed provided evidence to show 
that at the point of sale he had permanent health insurance (PHI) from his employer. 
Following the first six months of sickness (for which Mr H received full pay), this 
insurance paid 75% of his salary (subject to the rules of the PHI scheme).
Mr H hadnt been able to provide a copy of the PHI scheme rules, but the cover was 
mentioned in his contract of employment. I didnt think it was unreasonable that Mr H 
couldnt provide a copy of the scheme rules, given the time that had passed since the 
PPI policy was sold.
Keeping in mind the nature of Mr Hs employer, I thought it was reasonable for me to 
conclude that on balance, the combination of his sick pay and PHI benefits were 
likely to mean that Mr H could meet his credit card payments for a while without the 
PPI. So I was satisfied that Mr H didnt have had a strong need for the policy.
I didnt think Mr H would have bought the PPI if hed had enough information about 
the policy.
Mr H said he didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision.
Barclaycard said it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the PPI would cover Mr 
Hs credit card repayments for up to twelve months. It didnt consider Mr Hs employer 
benefits would pay out for as long.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive noted what Barclaycard has said in response to my provisional decision. But as I said in 
the provisional decision, Mr H was entitled to full pay for the first six months of any sickness 
absence. After that, his employers PHI scheme paid 75% of his salary. 
On balance, I think its likely that the PHI scheme wouldve paid out for the duration of any 
period of sickness. So I consider its likely that it wouldve paid out for longer than the PPIs 
period of cover.
I remain of the view that Mr Hs employer benefits meant he could meet his credit card 
repayments for a while without the PPI. So I still dont think he wouldve bought the policy if 
hed had better information about its cost and benefit. 
 
Putting things right
Barclaycard should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclaycard should find out how much Mr H would owe on his credit card if the policy
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclaycard should then refund the difference between what Mr H owes and what he
would have owed.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclaycard can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
Barclaycard can also take off any commission it has already refunded to Mr H from 
the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Barclaycard works out what Mr H would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mr H paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclaycard should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mr H wouldve owed Barclaycard something on his credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. Barclaycard should tell Mr H what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) to pay compensation to Mr H in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman