DRN-3051844
The complaint
Mr G says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr G took out a 12-month instalment loan for £1,500 on 8 March 2014 from 118 118 Money. 
The monthly repayment was £176.53 and the total repayable was £2,118.36. He says he 
should never have been given the loan as it was unaffordable and contributed to financial 
problems he is still trying to resolve.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. She said the information the lender 
gathered should have prompt it to do further checks, and these would have shown the loan 
was most likely not sustainably affordable for Mr G.
118 118 Money disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mr G borrowed from 118 118 
Money. The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) said that the lender needed to check that Mr G could afford to meet his
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mr G being able to meet his repayments
out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed to before
agreeing to lend to Mr G. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following
questions:
- did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Gs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
- did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the
loan. It asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It amended his declared expenses 
using instead an assumption of 25% of income. It checked Mr Gs credit file to understand
his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the 
loan, which was home improvements. From these checks combined 118 118 Money 
concluded Mr G would have sufficient disposable income each month (£509.87 after 
including this repayment) to afford the loan.
Given the term, value of the loan and the stage in the lending relationship I think these 
checks were initially proportionate. However, like the investigator, I dont think the lender 
reacted appropriately to the information it gathered and I think further checks were needed. 
Ill explain why. 
From the credit check 118 118 Money carried out it knew that, whilst Mr G wasnt heavily 
indebted or in arrears on his active credit accounts, he had taken out 15 payday loans in the 
last 24 months. He had also taken out £849 of cash on credit cards in the previous 12 
months. So I think there were some signs that Mr G was potentially having problems 
managing his money and this should have been investigated further. 
In response to the investigators assessment 118 118 Money argued that as Mr G had not 
used payday loans in the months leading up to its loan, it would be unfair to hold this against 
him when it was clear he was no longer using short-term high-cost credit. But I disagree with 
this analysis. In the six months prior to his application Mr G had taken out and repaid five 
payday loans, on three occasions taking out a new loan within a day or two of repaying a 
previous loan. Based on this pattern of borrowing I think 118 118 Money ought to have 
carried out further checks before concluding Mr Gs financial pressures had ended and 
deciding to lend.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Gs complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown 118 118 Money and consider if it 
ought to have realised that Mr G most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Like the investigator, I have looked at Mr Gs bank statements in the three months prior to 
his application. Im not saying the lender had to do this but its one way it could have 
gathered the information I think it needed on Mr Gs financial situation. The lender asked if 
we had reviewed both of Mr Gs current accounts as its credit check showed he had two 
accounts. We only have copies of statements from one account, but it seems it was Mr Gs 
main account as his salary was paid into it and his rent and living expenses came out of it. 
Mr G made regular transfers to and from his second account. But, on balance, Im satisfied its fair to rely on the statements we have to understand what better checks would most likely 
have shown 118 118 Money.   
The statements show Mr G was reliant on his £1,500 overdraft, even remaining overdrawn 
on receipt of his salary. So had 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks I dont 
think, as a responsible lender, it could have concluded Mr G had the disposable income it 
calculated and would be able to repay this loan without borrowing further of suffering other 
adverse financial consequences. Taking into account that the credit check showed that Mr G 
was also using 90% of his combined credit card limits and had a relatively recent reliance on 
payday loans, I think 118 118 Money ought to have concluded the loan was most likely to 
not be sustainably affordable for Mr G. 
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give Mr G the loan.
I havent found any evidence that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr G in any other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed because he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr G made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint and Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman