DRN-2384511
The complaint
Mr K has complained about advice given by Nationwide Building Society in 2015 when he 
was applying for a new interest rate product for his mortgage. As a result, Mr K believes he 
has been financially disadvantaged. He is also unhappy about the way in which Nationwide 
dealt with his complaint.
What happened
Mr K has a mortgage with Nationwide taken out in 2013. It was originally on a two-year fixed 
rate product. In February 2015 Mr K switched to a two-year tracker product at 1.14% above 
Bank of England (BOE) base rate, expiring in February 2017. In June 2015 Mr K took out a 
further advance on a tracker product at 1.24% above BOE base rate which also expired in 
February 2017.
Mr Ks explained to us that when he applied for a new product switch in 2019, for the first 
time he saw on Nationwides website information explaining that if a fee is added to the 
mortgage, interest will be charged on this over the term of the mortgage. Mr K says that in 
February 2015, when he had an advised sale, the advisor didnt provide him with this 
information and so Mr Ks decision for that product switch, and two (non-advised) product 
switches in 2017, were based on incorrect advice.
 
Mr K complained to Nationwide, but his complaint wasnt upheld, so Mr K brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. In addition to the issue about incorrect advice relating to the 
product fee, Mr K was unhappy that Nationwide wouldnt listen to the call from 2015, which 
Mr K believed supported his version of events. In addition, Mr K said that, although the 
application in 2015 was purportedly an advised sale, he didnt think it was because he 
thought the advisor was following a script. Mr K was also unhappy about Nationwides final 
response letter, as he said it didnt reflect the conversation hed had with the complaints 
advisor and was biased.
After the complaint was raised with us, Nationwide provided the call recordings, which were 
sent to Mr K. 
Two investigators looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. The first 
investigator noted that it was Mr K himself who had calculated hed save £980 over the 
product term if he paid the fee of £999, and that he didnt want to pay this upfront. He was 
also not persuaded that Nationwide was responsible for Mr K taking further product switches 
on an execution-only basis.
The second investigator noted that Mr K was clear he didnt want a product with a fee. 
Mr Ks own calculation of which product would be more cost-effective was based on him 
working out that his monthly payments would be, overall, £980 less than if he took a product 
with a fee of £999. But this calculation wasnt correct. But the investigator didnt think this 
changed the outcome, because Mr K had made it clear that he didnt want a product that 
came with a fee, and so the only products that were considered were ones that had no fee.
In response Mr K maintained hed been financial disadvantaged by Nationwides failure to 
advise him to take a product with a fee. He also raised a new issue - that he was unhappy at 
being directed towards a rate which tracked the BOE base rate, rather than Nationwides 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
Although this had not been raised with Nationwide as a new complaint, the investigator 
noted that the SVR was a reversionary rate which applied when a product such as a fixed 
rate or a tracker had reached the end of its product term. She clarified that, generally, a BOE 
tracker would have a lower interest rate than SVR.
The second investigator also explained that the way in which Nationwide dealt with the 
complaint  including its initial decision not to listen to the call recordings, and the tone and 
content of its final response letter  wasnt something we could consider. Thats because 
complaint-handling doesnt fall within our remit. 
Mr K has accepted the point about complaint-handling, but didnt agree with the findings on 
the other issues  the lack of advice around the effect of adding a fee to the mortgage 
product, and the interest rate issue. As the complaint is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a 
decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive taken note of everything Mr K and Nationwide have said, and Ive listened to 
the phone calls.
Ive noted what Mr K said about the fee, and during his call with Nationwide he explained 
that hed worked out that if he took a product with a fee, hed only save about £980 on his 
repayments, whereas the fee was £999. But this didnt factor in the interest implications of 
adding a fee to the product over the term.
Mr Ks position is that the advisor should have realised this, and clarified the position to Mr K 
so that he could make an informed choice about whether to take a product with or without a 
fee, and a comparison of savings if he paid the fee upfront, if he added it to the loan or if he 
took a product without a fee. 
But I think that even if the advisor had done so, it wouldnt have made any difference. Thats 
because Mr K said he didnt have the money to pay a fee upfront, hed already worked out 
that the savings were less than the fee, and so only wanted a fee-free product. Mr K also 
made it clear that he himself was a qualified mortgage advisor. Given all this, I dont think 
Nationwides advisor did anything wrong by not proceeding to look at and advise on products 
which came with fees when Mr K had made it clear that this would not suit his needs. 
I also note in the letter of recommendation, the advisor noted that Mr K only wanted to see 
the benefit of a product over the term of that product. Im satisfied that this is an accurate 
reflection of Mr Ks wishes; when the two-year tracker expired in 2017, he arranged it onto a 
new product, and did so again in 2019.
I note that Nationwides website now has a calculator tool, which in 2019 enabled Mr K to 
work out any potential savings out for himself, but it didnt in 2015. I dont have any power to 
tell Nationwide what information it should have on its website, provided the information it 
does provide is accurate and meets Nationwides regulatory obligations. Providing a 
calculator isnt a regulatory requirement.Overall, taking all the above into account, I dont think Nationwide acted incorrectly when it 
recommended a fee-free product to Mr K in 2015. The two product switches in 2017 were 
non-advised, and so Nationwide isnt responsible for any recommendation or advice in 
relation to those, nor any decisions Mr K made in relation to those products.
Mr K also raised a new issue, which is that he felt he was steered towards a tracker rate 
rather than SVR. Generally we cant consider a complaint before its been referred to 
Nationwide, but as the issue around the BOE and SVR is a simple one, Im satisfied I can 
deal with this without the need for Nationwide to provide its response. Im satisfied that 
recommending a tracker product to Mr K was a suitable recommendation, rather than 
advising him to let his mortgage go onto SVR. 
Mr K didnt qualify for Nationwides reversionary Base Mortgage Rate (a rate of 2% above 
BOE base rate for mortgages taken out before April 2009). In February 2015 Nationwides 
SVR was 3.99%. The two-year tracker product the advisor recommended was 1.14% above 
BOE base rate (at the time 0.50%), giving a rate of 1.64% for 24 months.
Given the difference between the tracker rate of 1.64% and SVR of 3.99%, I cant see how 
Mr K has been disadvantaged by the advisors recommendation of the two-year tracker.
Likewise, in relation to the £10,000 further advance in June 2015, I dont think 
recommending a tracker product was unsuitable. Nationwide doesnt offer products at SVR, 
as this is a reversionary rate which only applies after a mortgage product has expired, so it 
wouldnt have been available to Mr K for the further advance.
Mr K has accepted that his complaint about complaint-handling doesnt fall within our remit, I 
will make no further comment on this aspect of his complaint, as I have no legal power to do 
so.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide has done nothing wrong in its handling of Mr Ks 
mortgage account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman