DRN-1543884
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs W took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy but say they didn't agree to taking it, and didn't know they had it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Mrs Ws complaint for the following reasons.
The sale was a long time ago, so theres little evidence available from the time of sale. But I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold the complaint based solely on Mr 
Bs and Mrs Ws recollection of events. It is possible that they agreed to the PPI at the time 
but have since forgotten  given it was so long ago. So, I cant say that Bank of Scotland 
failed to make Mr B and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about buying the MPPI, or that 
they didnt choose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr B and Mrs W, and it seems to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But even if it had, I think Mr B and Mrs W would still have bought it. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr 
B and Mrs W dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr B and Mrs Ws comments, including what theyve said about not 
needing the policy. But these points dont change my conclusion. The MPPI wouldve paid 
their mortgage for them on top of any employment benefits they had and protected their 
savings. The MPPI wouldve paid out longer than their employment benefits and savings 
wouldve lasted, so I think there was a need for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman