DRN-2142324
The complaint
Mr H has complained via his representative as he believes that the advice provided to him 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 2006 and 2007 to invest in two financial instruments was 
unsuitable.
What happened
Mr H invested in two financial instruments through Lloyds.  In 2006, he invested £3,300 in a 
Guaranteed Investment Bond (GIB) and this matured in 2012 with a value of £3,316.50. 
In 2007, Mr H invested £150 per month into a Mini ISA which was used to purchase shares 
in Scottish Widows Dynamic Income Portfolio. Mr H maintained his monthly payments until 
April 2008 when he cashed in the Mini ISA.  Mr H had paid £1,950 into the ISA. He received 
a surrender value of £1,702.94 
Mr Hs representative complained that both instruments were mis-sold saying that Lloyds 
should have recommended lower cost funds and that the composition of the ISA was more 
heavily weighted towards equities and bonds than was appropriate. The representative said 
that Mr H had lost money in real terms and the costs of the instruments were not discussed. 
The representative also said that Mr Hs ISA allowance should have been used and the 
advisor had a duty not to expose Mr H to unnecessary tax on his returns.
Lloyds investigated Mr Hs complaints and issued a final response on 29 November 2019 
where they rejected the complaint. They felt that the advice provided to Mr H at the time was 
suitable.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr H asked our service to look at the complaint. One of our 
investigators reviewed the case but thought that the advice provided by Lloyds to Mr H was 
suitable, so didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the representative asked an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I agree with the investigators view for much of the same 
reasons.
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances, their financial commitments, attitude to risk and 
financial aims. This is normally done via a fact find or suitability assessment and the answers 
will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the consumer is looking to 
achieve.
Lloyds have provided details on what information was obtained from Mr H in 2006 and again 
in 2007. From what I have seen, the information covered everything that I would expect to 
see when assessing suitability and before providing advice.
I have also seen the various documents that would have been sent to Mr H which cover all 
the important regulatory information which is required such as Key Features, Illustrations 
and Facts sheets.  
For the investment made in 2006, Mr Hs representative have made several points in their 
letter to the service which I will answer in turn.
They said that Mr H should not have had 100% of his investment exposed in a single 
asset class and the investment should have been properly diversified. 
oFrom the fact find, Mr Hs objectives were to invest for capital growth and to 
receive a better return than cash in a deposit account. The investment 
recommended by Lloyds was a six-year bond which was linked to any rise in the 
value of the FTSE over the period.  Mr H would have benefited from 75% of this 
rise. If the value of the FTSE did not show any rise then Mr H would have been 
guaranteed to receive the amount originally invested.  
Mr Hs objective was for capital growth and to receive a better rate of return that a 
deposit account. The period that Mr H was invested was during the Banking crisis 
and markets did not perform as well as they had previously.  Clearly, past 
performance cannot be relied upon and the timing of Mr Hs investment took in 
this poor market performance however at the time of recommending the bond to 
Mr H, I believe that the advice was suitable in the circumstances.
Low-cost funds should have been properly considered and there is no evidence that this 
happened.
oMr H received an illustration that showed the impact of costs and charges for the 
duration of the term so Mr H should have been in an informed position. 
oClearly costs are an important consideration when recommending an investment 
but not the only factor that should be looked at  there may have been other 
investments at the time that would have costs less, but they may not have been 
suitable for Mr Hs overall circumstances.
They said that in real terms, Mr H has lost money and that the purchasing power of his 
money failed to keep pace with inflation during the investment period. They also say that 
he would have been better invested in a simple portfolio of 50% equities and 50% bonds.
oMr H invested £3,300 and received £3,316.50 back after 6 years. This return is 
below the rate of inflation over the period, but this doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable at the time. 
oThe key features document contains various risk warnings that should be 
considered prior to investing. One of these risk factors says that there is a cost of 
providing the guarantee  Mr Hs bond had a guaranteed return which meant that 
there was no risk in him losing his capital  something it seems reasonable for an 
inexperienced investor to consider.
They said that Mr H should not have been advised to invest in the GIB as this advice 
was in breach of the regulators rules in force at the time and a common law duty to act 
with reasonable skill and care with the requirement for disclosure of material information 
regarding risks, costs and available alternatives to allow Mr H to make an informed 
decision.oI disagree with what they said. Having reviewed the information which Lloyds 
obtained from Mr H and the documents that they sent Mr H, I believe that Lloyds 
have acted in accordance with the regulators rules that were in force at that time. 
They have fulfilled their obligations on suitability and have made the relevant 
disclosures available to Mr H.
oFrom what I have seen on reviewing the complaint, Lloyds have acted with due 
skill and care and made all relevant information available for Mr H to make an 
informed decision.
For the investment made in 2007, Mr Hs representative have made several points in their 
letter to the service. Some of these points are duplicates of what Ive already answered so I 
will only cover off the points unique to this sale.
They said that Mr Hs contributions were invested in a single managed fund. They say 
that this was unsuitable as it meant a lack of diversification and therefore an 
unnecessary concentration of risk. They say that Mr Hs objective was growth and not 
income but the managed funds primary aim was income.
oThe managed fund that Mr H invested in was the Scottish Widows Dynamic 
Income Portfolio. The fact sheet document that Mr H would have received 
describes the underlying funds that make up the overall managed portfolio. There 
are 8 bond funds and 4 equity funds that make up the managed portfolio. I 
believe that as these underlying funds have different aims and objectives they 
make up a diversified portfolio and there is no unnecessary concentration of risk 
 indeed, 36% of the bonds were AAA rated which would have reduced the risk 
of default.
oThe fact sheet states that the portfolio may be right for you if you want to achieve 
diversification across different asset classes in a single portfolio
oThe objective of the fund is stated as providing income with some potential for 
long-term capital growth. It further states that you should consider the portfolio if 
you are seeking the potential for medium to long-term growth or wish to obtain 
an income, distributed quarterly, with some potential for long-term growth. I think 
that this product did give Mr H the potential for growth but to also have the option 
for income if he wished.
They have said that the portfolio was more heavily weighted towards equities and 
corporate bonds than was appropriate given Mr Hs attitude to risk.
oMr Hs attitude to risk in 2007 was recorded as balanced or 3 out of 6 (6 being 
high). This compares to 2006 where he described himself as cautious. 
oIve looked at the fact sheet for the Scottish Widows Dynamic Income Portfolio 
and it is recorded as having a balanced approach. On the face of it, this would 
seem to tie in with Mr Hs personal circumstances.
I dont think that the allocation of bonds and equities was unsuitable for someone classed as 
balanced and as Ive said about some of the bonds ratings, these were not highly 
speculative bonds, but AAA rated.
In summary, having looked at the advice given in 2006 and 2007, I dont think that the 
recommendations were unsuitable. I think that Lloyds have paid attention to Mr Hs personal 
circumstances including his capacity for loss and attitude to risk.
In 2006, Mr H was recommended an instrument that had potential for growth but also an 
inbuilt guarantee that his capital would be at least maintained. Taking everything into 
account, Im not persuaded that the advice was unsuitable. In 2007, Mr H was recommended a managed portfolio within an ISA. This was tax-efficient 
and the portfolio had an asset allocation that was diversified. I think that this advice was 
suitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman