DRN-2725812
The complaint
Miss H says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream didnt change her loan repayment 
date when requested. She says she needed to do this due to issues caused by the COVID-
19 pandemic. She says that Lending Streams failure to act on her request caused her 
trouble and upset. 
Miss H says that she shouldnt pay any late repayment fees, or further interest for the loans, 
due to the delays caused by Lending Stream. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss H between 
December 2019 and January 2020. Both of these loans had a term of six months. Miss H 
had taken four earlier loans but they were repaid before the problems which form part of this 
complaint took place. So, I dont need to refer to them here. 
Ive read all of the information I have been provided about the correspondence between 
Lending Stream and Miss H. I wont talk about all of it in detail as both sides are aware of it 
and our adjudicator provided a detailed summary of the events this complaint concerns. Ill 
concentrate on the material sections which Ive outlined below. 
In late March 2020 Miss H missed a repayment to her loan. A short time later she emailed 
Lending Stream to say that her salary was being paid late due to the pandemic. I understand 
Miss H had tried to call Lending Stream but she was unable to speak to anyone and her calls 
werent returned. Just over two weeks later Lending Stream responded by email, it 
apologised for the delay and her asked if she still needed help. Correspondence continued 
at this point without resolution. 
In late April 2020 Miss Hs employer again delayed paying her salary and so she took steps 
to inform Lending Stream she would have a problem making the loan repayments on time. 
When she tried to contact Lending Stream she, again, wasnt able to speak to anyone at. But 
around the same time Lending Stream informed Miss H that it had waived any late payment 
fees and asked for some further information to see how best it could help her going forward. 
Correspondence continued between the two parties in a similar fashion. Miss H was unable 
to make her repayments at the contracted time. And she was unable to speak to anyone at 
Lending Stream about this. There was often a delay of a week or two before Lending Stream 
would contact her by email in response to her queries. 
Miss H made her complaint via a third party website in May 2020. Miss H continued to ask 
for any late repayment fees and charges to be removed due to the problems there had been 
in contacting Lending Stream. 
Going forward I can see that, in early July 2020, Miss H and Lending Stream took steps to 
agree a repayment plan. And over the coming months Miss H made repayments of what she 
could afford. I wont reiterate all of the correspondence from this time as both parties to the 
complaint are aware of it. But of note is that: 
Ms H informed Lending Stream she was made redundant in August 2020. 
The payment dates for the two loans was changed to the end of the month in August. 
Miss H remained in a repayment arrangement, the loans were closed in June (I 
understand this was before the repayment plan) and October 2020 respectively
And Lending Stream has confirmed that it has waived all of the late repayment fees, interest 
and charges that were added due to Miss Hs repayment difficulties. And it has now removed 
all of the adverse repayment information that it reported to the credit reference agencies in 
respect of these loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that, in summary, that he didnt think 
Lending Stream had delayed corresponding with Miss H for unreasonably long periods, 
given the circumstances. And as it had removed any late repayment fees and interest then 
no compensation was due. 
Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss H did need to contact Lending Stream a number of times about the problems 
she was having making the repayments. And I dont think there is any real dispute that it 
would have been better if Lending Stream had returned her calls (by telephone) and 
responded to her emails in a more timely manner. 
But I must bear in mind that whilst this may not have been ideal, at the time many 
businesses, including Lending Stream, were struggling with having to work differently due to 
the pandemic and some allowance should be made for this. It seems reasonable to say that 
both Miss Hs ability to repay the loan repayments, and Lending Streams problems in 
contacting her were adversely affected by circumstances outside of their control. 
Under more normal circumstances, Lending Stream should have responded sooner to some 
of her emails and calls but Im not persuaded that it would be fair to say that it should have 
been able to act as it would outside of the pandemic constraints under these circumstances. 
Whilst I appreciate this situation would have been very frustrating for Miss H, its difficult to 
say that Lending Stream should have been able to contact her in a different way or more 
frequently. 
At the early part of the contact Miss H wanted Lending Stream to change the repayment 
dates of her loans. But I think its fair to say that it wasnt clear from the correspondence that 
she wanted Lending Stream to do this for all of the repayments going forward. Indeed she 
may not have known this herself. So Lending Stream didnt change all of the repayment 
dates until later on. Again this seems reasonable given the information I have been provided. 
In order to resolve this Miss Hs said that Lending Stream should remove any fees and 
charges due to the late repayments from her accounts. It should also remove any negative 
information about these loans from her credit file. Lending Stream has already done this. So 
I think it is fair to say that Miss H hasnt lost out financially due this situation. And I think this 
is I think this is reasonable way to resolve this given the circumstances. Having thought about everything, and bearing in mind that that situation was caused, at least 
in part by the repayment difficulties Miss H was experiencing, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask Lending Stream to do anything further so Im not upholding Miss Hs 
complaint. 
I can see Miss H feels very strongly about this and Im sure this outcome will not be what 
she wanted. But I hope my explanation is helpful and it doesnt cause her any further 
distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman