DRN-3043454
The complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
Portafina to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his 
former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP 
were then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
What happened
In 2014, Mr S was introduced to Portafina after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative of a 
regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to 
provide investment advice but it wasnt permitted, nor was Firm C, to provide pension 
transfer advice. 
Mr S spoke to Firm C about investing his pension. But it wasnt possible to make the 
investments through his OPS so Firm C referred Mr S to Portafina for advice about 
transferring his pension. Portafinas suitability report recorded that: 
Mr S was 43, with a desired retirement age of 60
He was single and employed, with an income of approximately £1,100 a month
He owned his home, with an outstanding mortgage £80,000
He had no savings or investments
He had a balanced attitude to risk
He had a preserved OPS, which was projected to pay an annual pension of £3,594 
from age 60, or £2,488 if tax free cash (TFC) of £16,586 was taken
His OPS had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £39,933
The suitability report noted that Mr S discussed accessing his benefits from age 55 and 
taking the income flexibly. It was noted that Mr S preferred to have ownership and personal 
control of his pension benefits.
Portafina explained that a growth rate of 9.3% was required for the new personal pension to 
match the benefits Mr S was entitled to through his OPS. Based on Mr Ss balanced risk 
rating, it estimated the personal pension would grow at a rate of 6.13%, not including the 
advice and plan charges. Having considered all the information, Portafina recommended that 
Mr S transfer his OPS to a SIPP. It said that it wasnt providing advice regarding the 
investments within the SIPP as this was to be done by Firm C. 
Although Portafina wasnt providing advice regarding where Mr Ss fund would be invested 
after a transfer it set out its fund recommendations suggesting that, due to his risk profile, 
Mr S invest in the following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured Bonds 18%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated collective investments and could 
only be recommended by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs) 
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds werent unstable and therefore reduced the overall volatility of Mr Ss portfolio
The recommended SIPP was established in 2014 and the CETV of £39,467.73 was 
transferred in October 2014. Firm C invested approximately 35%, (£14,000) of Mr Ss SIPP 
fund in the following Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) funds:
£2,400 - Biomass Investment Plc
£1,000 - Brisa Investments Plc 
£2,400 - Stategic Residential Dev
£2,400 - Lakeview UK Investments 
£2,400 - Motion Picture Global
£2,400 - Real Estate Investments 
£1,000 - Tambaba Investments
The remainder was allocated to regulated investments.
In 2019, Mr S complained to Portafina about the advice he received to transfer his OPS to a 
SIPP. He said that the advice was negligent and wasnt suitable for someone with no 
investment experience. There was no reason for recommending the transfer and had he 
been made aware of the benefits being given up and how his funds were to be invested he 
would not have gone ahead. Portafina did not consider the suitability of the underlying 
investments and passed this responsibility to Firm C. 
Mr S referred his complaint to the service before Portafina had issued its final response.
Portafina reviewed the complaint but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. In its final 
response it said that it had only provided transfer advice to Mr S; it hadnt provided specific 
investment advice, that had been provided by Firm C. 
Portafina stated that Mr S was assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk (ATR), as 
recorded in the suitability report. Based on the model portfolios assumed rate of return of 
6.13%, the required growth rate of 5.53% was achievable. It noted that it had explained the 
risks associated and Mr S had signed a declaration confirming he was aware of the benefits 
he was giving up.
As Mr S remained unhappy, the complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She 
thought the complaint against Portafina should be upheld as the advice was not suitable. In 
summary she said: 
Mr Ss OPS was his only personal pension arrangement and there was little prospect 
of him making further retirement savings, as he was not a high earner
The critical yield needed to match the benefits was unlikely to be achievable with a 
balanced risk profile
The clients investment objectives needed to be ascertained before making a 
recommendation, which was not done
She did not believe the objectives listed - TFC, taking the benefits at 55 and 
ownership and control - justified the recommendation to transfer
Portafina disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary it said:Mr S wanted to retire earlier than the scheme retirement age
He was divorced, so the spouses benefit offered by the OPS did not suit his 
circumstances. He preferred to leave the full value of his pension to his three 
children
The advice to transfer was partly based on the life time hurdle rate figures, but 
Portafina also considered his overall objectives and personal circumstances
An annuity was not suitable and the investment term was in excess of twenty years, 
therefore the recommendation was in line with Mr Ss ATR 
Mr S should complain to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
about the advice from Firm C 
The investigator responded to the businesss arguments explaining that the FSCS would not 
look at any claim against Firm C while the business responsible for the advice to transfer, 
Portafina, was still trading. As no agreement could be reached, the case has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing this, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time. Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Portafina recommended that Mr S transfer his OPS to a SIPP but it says that it didnt provide 
advice as to the investments within the SIPP because this was being provided by Firm C. So 
in the suitability letter Portafina based its recommendation on an example portfolio for a 
balanced risk investor.
Mr S accepted the recommendation and Portafina arranged for the SIPP to be set up and 
the OPS to be transferred. Firm C subsequently arranged for the SIPP funds to purchase a 
number of investments, seven of which were unregulated. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments. This 
remains the case even if Firm C was actually providing that advice. This is a fundamental 
requirement of advising on a transfer into a SIPP. Portafina cant say that its only 
responsible for the SIPP transfer itself; it needed to have a broad understanding of the 
proposed investments before it could determine the transfer was in Mr Ss best interest. 
As the investigator explained, on 18 January 2013 the regulator at the time issued an 
alert about advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into 
unregulated products through a SIPP. This alert was issued because it had come to the 
regulators notice that some firms were adopting advice models which didnt comply with 
the existing obligations and so there was a potential for consumer detriment. The regulator made its position clear in the alert, where it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements
In the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm involved was unregulated. In Mr Ss 
case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement 
with Firm S. 
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr S it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr S under the regulatory system. So, even if it told Mr S is wasnt proving investment 
advice this didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ss funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr S. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr S to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
By virtue of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give suitable advice, but 
this didnt absolve Portafina from its responsibility to do the same. And it could only fully 
assess the suitability of the transfer if consideration was given to where the funds within the 
SIPP were going to be invested. 
Portafina appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying Firm C 
would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the asset classes 
Mr S should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up Portafinas model 
portfolio for a balanced investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mr S was. As noted earlier, 
this model portfolio recommended an asset allocation with 18% of the pension held in 
secured structured bonds and 60% in equities. 
I dont agree that it was sufficient for Portafina simply to recommend a broad spread of 
investments in its suitability report for Mr S in the expectation that that would bring about the 
necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations. Further, I do not agree that 
broad references to investment classes, (such as equities and other fixed interest), would 
give consumers in the position of Mr S sufficient information to enable them to spot 
discrepancies.  
The reality is that having followed Portafinas transfer advice, 35% of Mr Ss SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. Here it said 
that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's exposure to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Ss case, 35% of his SIPP 
 which, other than his state pension entitlement, represented his only retirement provision  
was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS were suitable for Mr S at all, let alone in the 
proportion invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr S had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest such a significant level of Mr Ss SIPP holdings in 
UCIS, it couldve queried this given how at odds it was with what it determined an 
appropriate asset allocation for Mr S was.  
I think its likely that, having realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those it had based its suitability assessment on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mr S aware of the situation so he could, if 
servicing rights had already been transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective action 
himself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr S. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr S that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr S against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr S wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the 
transfer. In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr S when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended was being made on a 
sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to me that Firm C was in effect 
given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Ss SIPP was invested.
Further, I should add that even if I was satisfied Portafina could adequately assess the 
suitability of the transfer by merely recommending potential investments into broad asset 
classes, with no further steps taken to align its advice with Firm Cs recommendations, I dont 
think the asset allocation set out in the table would in any event have been suitable for Mr S. 
I say this because the model portfolio suggested that 18% of the pension fund should be 
invested in secure structured bonds. These are described in the suitability report as asset 
back debt securities that are issued for a fix term. The report goes on to explain that these 
are not covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that there 
are credit risks - due to the possibility of the company borrowing the money going into 
default - and liquidity risks. In my view, this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum 
and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly 
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of 
Mr Ss pension fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid funds, wouldve been suitable for a 
client in Mr Ss position in any event. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ss funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Mr S wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
Was the advice to transfer the OPS suitable?
Mr Ss OPS was a final salary scheme which provided benefits based on his salary whilst in 
employment. It provided a guaranteed income for the future that wasnt based on investment 
returns. Giving up the benefits and guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future 
pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be 
done where it can be shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. 
The COBS rules at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
So, the starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice, Mr S was 43 years old, single and employed. He was a 
standard retail customer with twelve years until he could take any pension benefits and 
seventeen years until his desired retirement age of 60. Aside from his state pension 
entitlement, his OPS represented his sole retirement provision. There was no record of Mr S 
having any other savings or investments and although he was a home owner, he had an 
outstanding mortgage. It seems to me Mr Ss OPS was one of his most valuable assets. It 
provided a guaranteed income at retirement with increases, as well as a lump sum death benefit, should he pass away before retirement. Based on this I think Portafina should have 
recognised the significance of Mr Ss OPS and proceeded with caution.
Portafinas suitability report stated that a critical yield of 9.3% a year was required to match 
benefits from the OPS. But this didnt make an allowance for all ongoing charges, such as 
the individual fund charges. This meant the growth needed just to match the benefits being 
given up was likely to have been understated. Like the investigator, I feel the growth required 
to provide an increase in benefits for Mr S was too high to make the transfer viable. 
The advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr S would receive a materially higher pension 
at retirement as a result of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where 
Portafina estimated that, based on Mr Ss attitude to risk, his personal pension would grow at 
a rate of 6.13%. 
Mr S was classed as having a balanced ATR in the report and his complaint also says he 
had a balanced ATR. As there is no copy of the risk profile on file and the consumer has 
restated that this was his ATR, there is no evidence that this was not the case. However, 
tolerance of risk is not the same as capacity. Mr S had no other personal pension provision, 
no savings or investments and had a relatively low income. As such he had no means of 
replacing losses to this pension and his capacity for loss was low, as stated in his complaint 
letter.
This is supported by the information in the suitability report which noted that Mr S could 
afford to lose 10% of your fund before it affects your standard of living significantly. The 
report also noted that losses over 10% would make him feel uncomfortable, which is not a 
response expected from a medium or balanced risk investor. His capacity for loss, combined 
with his lack of experience and desire to minimise losses, means that a classification as a 
low and not balanced risk investor would be appropriate.
The Suitability Report provides further evidence to support his lack of appetite for risk on 
page eight (emphasis my own):
you stated that the ability to draw tax free cash early from age 55 was a significant potential 
benefit and that, provided the Impact on your overall pension was not too severe, you 
would wish to have the flexibility to do so.
You expressed the view that you would prefer to have ownership and personal control of 
your pension benefits provided this did not result in a reduction in your future pension.
It ought to have been clear to Portafina that Mr S could not realistically be classed a 
balanced risk investor. Giving advice is not a tick box exercise and the fact a risk profile 
questionnaire had marked him out as having a higher ATR should not have overridden the 
evidence the customer had provided to Portafina about his own, low attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss.
Based on this, not only was the critical yield of 9.3% unachievable, but the hurdle rate of 
5.53% - which Portafina relied on when assessing the viability of the transfer - was also 
above the level of growth which could be expected for a low risk investor. Furthermore, it 
was also higher than the intermediate rate of 5%. It was therefore clear that transferring his 
OPS to a personal pension would leave Mr S worse off financially, whichever metric was 
used. I think its also important to explain why the use of the hurdle rate was inappropriate. 
Portafina have argued that the critical yield was not relevant as Mr S did not intend to 
purchase an annuity at retirement and taking an income via drawdown was more suitable for 
his long term objectives. I do not accept this argument, as it ignores the importance of the 
critical yield in demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up and does not offer any 
reason as to why Mr S would not want to obtain a secure income in retirement. At the time of 
advice, Mr S was at least twelve years away from being able to take his pension benefits, so 
I cannot see how Portafina could say it was more likely than not that Mr S would not want an 
annuity at retirement.
I acknowledge the advice was provided shortly after the government had announced major 
changes to the way in which consumers could access their pension funds and that this in 
turn may have reduced the number of people taking annuities. In support of this assumption, 
Portafina has referenced an FCA Data Bulletin from September 2018 which focused on the 
latest trends in the retirement income market.
Although Portafina has only provided one page from this bulletin, I have carefully read the 
bulletin in its entirety, which highlights that between 2015 (when the pension freedoms 
legislation was introduced) and 2018, there was an increase in consumers accessing their 
pension pots via income drawdown. Only 13% of the pension pots accessed during this time 
were used to purchase annuities. However, I should point out that this figure was much 
higher when the pension pot had guarantees; almost 40% of pensions pots with guarantees 
attached were used to purchase annuities. And 60% of the pension pots going into 
drawdown, were used solely to access tax free cash; no income had been taken. So, the 
number of those pots that are ultimately used to secure a guaranteed income is unknown. 
As such, even if I was satisfied that it would be appropriate to assess the advice provided to 
Mr S based on market trends - which Im not - I dont think the bulletin supports Portafinas 
argument.
Im also conscious this data bulletin relates solely to defined contribution plans, which
(unless there are guarantees built in) are subject to current annuity rates. Current
annuity rates (the rate that determines the amount of regular income an individual will get in
return for their pension pot) have fallen in recent years. And so this may explain the
reduction in the number of individuals with defined contribution plans using their pension
pots to purchase an annuity. 
Mr Ss OPS was a defined benefit plan. This meant that what he wouldve received from his 
pension was guaranteed, based on his final salary and number of years service within the 
scheme, and wasnt dependent on current annuity rates. So any changes in current annuity 
rates, wouldnt have impacted what he wouldve received from his plan. So I dont think 
trends in the defined contribution market apply in Mr Ss case.
Even if it were appropriate for Portafina to take account of market trends, I dont think it
reasonably follows that Mr S himself was likely to have taken his benefits via income
drawdown. Portafina didnt need to be certain of the course Mr S might have taken, but Im 
not sure there was a reasonable basis upon which Portafina assumed he was more likely 
than not to have taken income drawdown.
I appreciate Mr S may have said that required the flexibility of accessing his funds earlier 
than the OPS rules allowed. But Ive not been provided with a copy of the call recording so I 
dont know the context in which this was discussed. But even if Mr S had said this was a 
requirement, it ought to have been explained that in this situation, flexibility is of questionable 
benefit considering the guaranteed income that is being given up. Ive not been provided 
with any evidence to suggest that Portafina explained this to Mr S. And I dont agree that ruling out an annuity provided Mr S with as much flexibility as possible; it ought to have been 
assumed that there was a possibility he may take an annuity at retirement and Portafinas 
assessment of the benefits shouldve taken this into account, not ruled it out as it appears to 
have done.
Mr S wasnt expecting to receive any additional guaranteed income in retirement, other
than his state pension. So I dont think it was right to make the assumption that he
would, more likely than not, take his benefits via drawdown when he retired. I think
Portafina ought to have advised him that, it would be more suitable for Mr S to secure a
guaranteed income, particularly as this pension was to provide the majority of his
retirement income. 
Further, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a
personal recommendation to transfer away from a defined benefits OPS, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined
benefits pension scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think
its important to emphasise that the starting point for the transfer advice in this case
ought to have been that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G). And Portafina ought to have
made Mr S aware that it was in his best interest to preserve his OPS benefits.
The critical yield or hurdle rate and Mr Ss ATR arent the only factors that needed to be 
taken into account when considering what suitable advice would have been.  
Mr S was 43 and could not access his pension benefits until age 55. Portafina have not 
offered any explanation why it was necessary to transfer at this stage of his life when he had 
to wait another twelve years before he could access the funds. It was stated in the report 
that he wanted the ability to take TFC at age 55, but there was no explanation as to why he 
wanted or needed to take the TFC at that age, when his intended retirement age was 60, in 
line with his OPS. 
Mr S had no recorded investment experience, so there was no obvious reason why he would 
want or even be able to make decisions which gave him more control over his pension or 
make specific investment choices. Furthermore, as Portafina failed to check with Firm C 
how it would be investing the pension, it didnt know whether any investment choices Mr S 
intended to make would be appropriate.
This was his only personal pension provision, so it was also unlikely that he would benefit 
from being able to take the benefits flexibly. In all probability, Mr S would need as high a 
level of regular income as possible and was not in a position to vary his income in retirement 
and take a reduced amount in any one year, as he had no means of replacing any reduction 
in the income his pension provided.
While it is understandable that an individual might want to provide as much as possible for 
his family in the event of death, this should not be at the expense of maintaining an income 
in retirement. The primary purpose of pension planning is to provide an income in retirement, 
not a death benefit for family, especially when any children were unlikely to be financially 
dependent upon him when he was retired. It was always more likely that Mr S would reach 
retirement age and need the guaranteed indexing income his pension provided over the long 
term.
Mr S was relatively young, with little prospect of not reaching his intended retirement age of 
60. The customers complaint states that he had arthritis and severe hypertension, but 
neither of these conditions posed any immediate threat to his life expectancy and they did 
not prevent him from working as a care worker, a role in which some degree of physical 
capability is required. Given the information on file, it would be reasonable to expect him to live well into retirement and page eleven of the suitability report quoted a life expectancy of 
81, based on ONS mortality tables.
His OPS already provided life cover of £12,440, approximately 30% of the CETV, so some 
level of cover was already guaranteed. Furthermore, although Mr S was divorced, it was by 
no means certain that he will never marry again, at which point the spouses pension would 
be a useful feature. At any rate, there was no need to make a decision on this matter while 
he was more than a decade from being able to take any form of pension benefit. By 
transferring out at this point, Mr S was giving up a guaranteed income and existing life cover 
to provide additional death benefit in the event of a sudden and unexpected loss of life. An 
event which, by no means impossible, was highly unlikely.
As a side note, the suitability report actually says on page eight that, after discussing death 
benefits You stated that enhanced death benefits are not a significant priority. So I do not 
believe that this was a factor at the time the advice was given.
Had Mr S been advised to remain in his OPS, he would still have the option of retiring in his 
fifties and taking tax free cash as desired, by transferring at a later date. There was no need 
for him to transfer out and certainly no need to do so at this time, when he would not be able 
to take any of the benefits.
Would Mr S have gone ahead anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, Mr S 
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would. Mr S went ahead with the transfer on 
the understanding that he was unlikely to be financially disadvantaged in the long term. This 
was not the case. Had he been appropriately advised, I think its more likely that Mr S would 
have chosen to maintain his OPS.
As a professional adviser which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr S from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mr S may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against this, that would have made him think about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr S proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mr S was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
I note that Mr S signed a declaration to say that he understood it was unlikely the critical 
yield would be achieved and that he was giving up guaranteed benefits. But this declaration 
fails to mention that it was also unlikely that the hurdle rate would be met. Mr S had no 
pressing objectives that meant he needed to transfer his pension when he did so I fail to see 
why, if everything had been explained correctly and fully, he would have gone ahead with 
the transfer if he was aware that, ultimately, he would be most likely be worst off in 
retirement. Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ss loss?
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr S when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mr Ss 
needs was being made on a sound basis. And even basing its recommendation on the life 
time hurdle rate showed that Mr S would likely be worse off in retirement when assessed 
against the correct ATR. As a result of these shortcomings, Mr S has lost his guaranteed 
pension income and it seems to me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and 
opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Ss SIPP was invested.
I think it was clear from the outset that Mr S was seeking to rely on the advice he reasonably 
expected to obtain from Portafina. And I think Portafinas failings in appropriately assessing 
the overall suitability of the transaction it was recommending played a pivotal role in Mr Ss 
decision to transfer.  
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr S are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portafina. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe 
he would have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS or the subsequent UCIS 
investments.  
Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning responsibility to 
Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that anything 
Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its responsibility for Mr Ss 
losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension switch advice and investment advice. Portafina advised Mr S 
to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits to be 
switched over. 
I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr S to invest a significant share of his SIPP funds in 
UCIS. But I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully responsible for Mr Ss loss. Ultimately 
Portafina recommended Mr S should transfer his OPS benefits to the SIPP, without ensuring 
the subsequent investments he would go on to make, through Firm C, were suitable for him. 
Portafinas understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the 
SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was 
advising Mr S on the investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas involvement that Mr S 
transferred his OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments 
were fully reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, he couldnt 
have invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. Mr S hasnt complained about 
Firm C or Firm S and in light of their liquidation, there would be little point in him doing so. 
He has complained about Portafina and because of what I have said, it is, in my view, fair 
and reasonable that Portafina should account to him for the full extent of his losses.
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr S suffered in switching his OPS to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Portafina must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date
Portafina LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Portafina to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Mr Ss representative.
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mr S to the position he would have been in but for the 
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable or unwilling to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
I've set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina taking over the investment, or this 
is something that Mr S can discuss with Portafina directly. But I don't know how long that will 
take.
Third parties are involved and we don't have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think it's fair that Portafina pay Mr S an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years' worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous year's fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman