DRN-4486906
The complaint
Mr S complains about Acasta European Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim made under his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr S had GAP insurance underwritten by Acasta to protect the agreed value of his car in the 
event that it were written off or stolen.
Mr S says he was involved in an accident in May 2022 and his car was written off. And so, 
he made a claim to Acasta.
Acasta have declined the claim. They appointed an expert to assess the damage to Mr Ss 
car and the other car Mr S said had been involved in the accident. The expert concluded that 
the damage to the cars couldnt have happened in the way Mr S said.
Mr S complained to Acasta. They maintained their stance that the claim had been rightly 
declined. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Acasta had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Mr S will understand that its not for me to determine whether his claim should be 
settled or not. Our role is to consider whether Acasta have acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way they handled the claim and decided it.
Mr S has his own view about the damage to the two cars. And there was an assessment of 
his car carried out after the accident, although that was primarily aimed at establishing what 
the damage was, not how it had happened. 
Acasta commissioned a report from a qualified motor engineer, who assesses damage to 
cars involved in accidents.
His report is detailed, cogent, logical and refers directly to the evidence. It concludes that  
for several evidential reasons  the two vehicles did not collide with each other.
Its neither unfair nor unreasonable for Acasta to rely on that expert evidence and to find it 
persuasive  and, therefore, decline the claim.
Id expect that if Mr S produces further evidence about his claim  a report from a similarly 
qualified expert, for example  Acasta would consider that evidence and review the claim 
outcome.
But I cant justifiably say that Acasta have acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining Mr Ss 
claim based on the evidence currently available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman