DRN-2951262
The complaint
Mrs E complains that, after shes cancelled her car insurance policy, esure Insurance 
Limited wants her to pay an outstanding balance on it.
 
What happened
On 18 February 2021, Mrs E renewed her car insurance with esure, paying her annual 
premium in monthly instalments. 
On 1 March, Mrs E called esure to cancel the policy from 31 March. 
On 17 March, Mrs E made a claim on the policy.
esure didnt cancel Mrs Es policy until 19 May, after shed queried why two further payments 
had been taken from her bank account. esure told Mrs E then that, because thered been a 
claim on her policy, the full annual premium was due.
Mrs E says if esure had told her this when she made her claim, shed have cancelled the 
new policy and continued to insure her car with esure. Instead, she says shes effectively 
paying for two insurance policies on her car.
esure has offered to reduce Mrs Es outstanding balance by £100 because it failed to cancel 
her policy on 31 March as she requested. But it says its standard industry practice, and set 
out in the terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy, that the full annual premium is payable if 
she makes a claim.
Mrs E then brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it. He 
thought esure shouldve highlighted to Mrs E the implications of cancelling her policy once 
shed made the claim. 
Esure disagrees and says its entitled to the outstanding balance. So Mrs Es complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint. On the particular facts in this 
complaint, I dont think esure has treated Mrs E fairly.
Mrs Es car insurance policy says it wont refund her premium if she cancels her policy but 
has made a claim. And it says if she pays by instalments, she must still pay the balance of 
the full annual premium. As esure has said, its standard industry practice for an insurer to 
charge its insured the full annual premium after a claim has been made.
But in Mrs Es case, I dont think this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome. When Mrs E 
asked for her policy to be cancelled, she hadnt made a claim. When she did claim, I think 
esure shouldve told her that, if she went ahead with the cancellation, shed still have to pay 
the full premium because of the claim. 
I dont think it was enough, in these particular circumstances, for esure simply to rely on   
Mrs Es policy terms to say it had given her the information she needed. Mrs Es policy had 
only started in February 2021, so wouldve had almost 11 months to run had it not been 
cancelled. And Mrs E says if shed known the claim meant her whole balance was payable 
for the year, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the new insurance cover  as she says, she 
effectively has two policies running. 
Its possible one of the reasons esure didnt highlight the impact of Mrs Es claim on her 
premium if she cancelled is that it hadnt correctly diarised the cancellation date. So esure 
may well not have known the policy was due to cancel shortly after the claim was made. But 
that was esures mistake. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs E to have to 
bear the consequences of it.
  
Putting things right
On these specific facts, Mrs E should only have to pay esure for the time she was on cover 
up to the cancellation date and for its administration fee for cancelling her policy. esure can 
offset the £100 its offered Mrs E for not ending her policy when she requested against the 
amount of refunded premiums it now needs to pay her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
I direct esure Insurance Limited to calculate the premium payable by Mrs E for the time she 
was on cover (from 18 February to 31 March 2021) and to add to this its fee for cancelling 
the policy. esure should then set off against this amount the payments it took from Mrs Es 
account in April and May 2021 and the £100 in compensation it has already offered Mrs E. It 
must then make any balancing payment to Mrs E for the premiums it should refund.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman