DRN-2799556
The complaint
Mrs S is seeking to recover £34,931.26 from TSB Bank plc (TSB), after she was the victim 
of a scam. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs S was looking online for a company with which to invest £20,000. Mrs S 
found a company she liked the look of, entered her details online and later received a 
phone call from an unknown individual who purported to work for the company Mrs S had 
been interested in. Unfortunately, the person Mrs S was speaking with was actually a 
fraudster posing as an employee of a legitimate firm. Mrs S and the fraudster discussed a 
potential investment/bond which offered a return of around 9.5% - 9.9% and Mrs S was 
sent an invoice with the payment details detailing an international account in Denmark. 
Once persuaded to invest, Mrs S called TSB to make the transfer. However, TSB were 
having some trouble with their internal systems and having been placed on hold for over 
an hour and after having a brief discussion, Mrs S was directed to make the payment in 
branch and compensated for the inconvenience.  
Mrs S went into branch as she had been instructed. There are some discrepancies 
between what Mrs S and TSB say happened next. Mrs S has maintained that when she 
went into branch, she asked to speak with someone about the investment but no-one was 
available to speak with her and so she went to the counter directly to make the payment. 
Mrs S says she cannot recall being asked any questions about the payment by the 
cashier. 
TSB say there is no record of Mrs S asking to speak with someone about the investment.  
And it also says that there would have been some discussion with the cashier about the 
payment Mrs S intended to make as Mrs S wouldve needed to identify herself and the 
cashier wouldve needed to complete TSBs High Value Checklist (HVC) as the 
transaction amounted to over £10,000. And so TSB doesnt think Mrs Ss recollections 
about not being asked any questions in branch at the time are correct. 
TSB has been unable to provide me with a copy of the HVC completed in branch at the 
time but it has provided me with a generic copy of the one that it says wouldve been used 
by the cashier who processed the payment on Mrs Ss behalf. 
After confirming the payment had been made, Mrs S was given an account by the 
fraudsters which she could use to login to see how her investment was performing each 
week  which we now know to be fake. Having seen considerable returns on her original 
investment, Mrs S decided to invest again in November 2018. This time, completing the 
payment online using her online banking account. However, in January 2019, Mrs Ss 
online investment account had disappeared and she was no longer able to get in touch 
with anyone at the investment company. It was at this point, Mrs S realised she had been 
the victim of a scam and she contacted TSB to tell them what had happened. TSB got in 
touch with the receiving bank but unfortunately, Mrs Ss funds had already been removed 
from the account and TSB said there was nothing further it could do.
Mrs S bought her complaint to our service. An investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint 
and thought it should be upheld. She felt that there were a number of red flags about the 
payment Mrs S had made in branch that meant TSB shouldve questioned Mrs S about it 
before it allowed it to leave her account. The investigator thought that had probing 
questions been asked, it wouldve come to light that something wasnt quite right and Mrs S 
wouldnt have proceeded to make the payment at all. 
TSB didnt agree with our Investigators opinion. It said it felt all relevant questions wouldve 
been covered by its HVC and if any concerns had come to light these wouldve been 
recorded on its system  but nothing had been. It also said it had listened to a recording of 
the conversation Mrs S had with one of its staff members about the payment before going 
into branch and felt it was clear that Mrs S was frustrated at having to wait on hold and 
simply wished to make the payment. TSB said that had it placed more barriers to making 
the payment in branch, its likely that Mrs S wouldve become even more frustrated and 
insisted on making the payment  rather than agreeing it should not be made at all. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
It is worth noting that Mrs S has now been paid compensation by TSB for the inconvenience 
caused to her by its IT systems glitch at the time she was attempting to make the initial 
payment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would be to uphold it for the following reasons:
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that both our investigator and TSB have made numerous 
comments surrounding the telephone conversation that took place between Mrs S and 
TSB before the initial scam payment was made in branch. For the avoidance of doubt, I 
dont think this conversation has a material impact on the outcome of this complaint and I 
wont be commenting on it further here.
It is common ground that Mrs S authorised the scam payments herself. In total, she made 
two payments amounting to £34,931.26 (post conversion). I accept that these payments 
were authorised payments even though Mrs S was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She 
went into her local branch and later used her online banking security credentials to request 
the payments. So, although she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
TSB should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
Mrs S says she doesnt remember the branch staff questioning her about the first 
payment when she went into branch. TSB hasnt been able to provide me with any 
information about what was discussed in branch at the time the first transaction took 
place either but it has said that Mrs S wouldve needed to verify her identity and its HVC 
wouldve been completed.
Im satisfied that this type of scam  an investment scam  wouldve been well-known to 
banks at the time Mrs S made the first payment. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, it 
doesnt appear that Mrs S was asked any questions about the reason for the transfer by 
branch staff before it was executed. 
Mrs S was attempting to make a £20,000 payment to a new payee to an international bank 
account in Denmark  despite the invoice she had with her documenting that the 
investment company she was dealing with was based in London. And so, Im persuaded 
that TSB staff shouldve been concerned about the possibility of fraud here and that TSB 
shouldve asked some questions about the payment and warned Mrs S of potential fraud 
and scams.
In other words, Im satisfied there were enough red-flags here to put TSB on notice that 
something might not be quite right. But the evidence before us indicates that the staff did 
not ask Mrs S any questions about the payment at all. In my judgment, TSB could and 
should have done more here, particularly given that good industry practice from the time 
encourages staff to ask questions about potentially fraudulent payments in order to test the 
purpose and legitimacy of the payment.
This was the first time Mrs S had attempted to enter into an investment not supported by a 
financial advisor and so it was her first time making a payment of this kind independently 
and this is a particularly well-known scam. And so, Im persuaded that had bank staff 
asked some probing questions e.g. what the investment was for and its expected returns 
(which in this case were unusually high), what paperwork she had received upfront, how 
she had been contacted, and whether she had done sufficient checks on the alleged 
broker - including whether the firm was regulated - some red flags wouldve been raised 
and its likely Mrs Ss answers wouldve put TSB on notice that she may be at risk of 
financial harm.Mrs S hadnt been provided with a cover-story to provide to branch staff and Im satisfied 
that had she been asked these questions she would have told TSB how she had been 
contacted after filling in her details online, that she had relied on the information provided 
by the caller and not carried out any independent checks. Im also satisfied she wouldve 
told TSB the likely returns. The scammer had told Mrs S she was likely to receive a 9.5  
9.9% return on any investments she made  which would have been implausible unless 
Mrs S was entering into a high-risk investment. Mrs S thought she was entering into an 
investment that ultimately guaranteed returns. And the HVC checklist specifically requires 
TSB branch staff to question customers about the expected rates of return and question as 
to whether they are too good to be true. But it doesnt appear that this was done on this 
occasion. And Mrs S didnt have a contract from the broker or any paperwork that set out 
the detail of these investments that she couldve shown branch staff either.
At this point, Im satisfied staff would have realised that something was amiss - before it 
was too late. Mrs S had simply trusted that she was speaking to a professional. At this 
point, TSB couldve educated Mrs S about this particular type of scam and its key 
characteristics. Mrs S has told us, and I have no reason to doubt her, that she was not 
aware that this type of scam existed previously. She wouldve had no reason not to trust 
what the branch staff said. And Im satisfied that had Mrs S been told about the potential 
risks she would have exercised caution and not gone ahead with the payment.
In other words, if the staff had carried out further or better questioning in line with a banks 
duty of care, at the time Mrs S went into branch to make the first payment, it seems 
probable that Mrs S would have become credulous about the scam in time and decided not 
to makethe first, and ultimately, the following payments at all. The fraud would have failed; 
and Mrs S would not have lost £34,931.26.
I have also considered whether Mrs S should bear some responsibility in terms of her 
actions. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payments, 
she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was doing or the 
consequences of her actions. She thought she was sensibly investing her savings with a 
legitimate investment company. I am satisfied she was simply the unwitting and blameless 
victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mrs S was 
a layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs S for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of the money she lost. I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the 
money from Mrs S it would have remained in her current account, so interest should be at 
that rate.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about TSB Bank plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mrs S £34,931.26 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance 
of my final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the current account rate from the date of each loss to 
the date of refund.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman