DRN-2909775
The complaint
Mr C and Miss H complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has refused their claim for a 
cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Miss H have travel insurance as a benefit with a bank account. In February 2020 
they made a booking for a trip, departing in July 2020. 
In early July 2020, flights for other family members accompanying Mr C and Miss H on the 
trip were cancelled. In addition, the providers of the accommodation abroad also cancelled 
the booking. Miss H contacted UKI to explain the situation and says she was told that her 
flights costs would be covered if she did cancel. As a result, Mr C and Miss H cancelled the 
booking and registered a claim for the cost of the flights.
UKI considered the claim but told Mr C and Miss H that it didnt provide cover for recoverable 
expenses. UKI said Miss H had told it the airline had offered her a credit voucher when she 
called to cancel the booking  which she refused. It said it considered the credit note to be a 
recovered cost. So UKI declined the claim.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C and Miss H complained to UKI and brought a complaint to 
this service. They said they only cancelled after speaking to UKI to confirm it would be 
covered. Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She said the main 
reason for cancelling the trip was the loss of the accommodation and the policy didnt cover 
trips cancelled for this reason. But she also found that the policy doesnt provide cover for 
costs you can recover elsewhere and, as Mr C and Miss H had been offered a credit 
voucher for the flights, this was considered a refund. So, she thought UKIs decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable.
Mr C and Miss H disagreed with our investigator. They said the reason they were cancelling 
was because of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all but 
essential travel abroad  which is a covered reason to cancel. And in relation to the credit 
voucher, they said UKI should have explained about this in the phone call and, as it didnt, 
Mr C and Miss H believe that UKI should now pay their claim.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr C and Miss Hs complaint.
The policy Mr C and Miss H took out includes cover for trips which have to be cancelled. In 
the cancellation section of the policy there is a list of events for which cover is provided. 
Mr C and Miss H argue that the cause of the cancellation of their trip was the FCO advice 
which was in force. From looking at the information Mr C and Miss H initially provided to this 
service it appears that there were a number of different factors which led to the cancellation 
of their trip; other people in their party having flights cancelled, the cancellation of their 
accommodation and also the FCO advice at the time. 
It isnt possible for me to know which of these events was the overriding reason for them 
cancelling the trip, although it appears from correspondence Miss H sent to UKI that the fact 
other family members wouldnt be able to join them, along with the lack of accommodation, 
were the main reasons for initially contacting the airline to ask about cancelling the flights. 
And as the advice regarding travel restrictions issued by the FCO had been in place for a 
number of months before Mr C and Miss H cancelled their flights, it would seem that these 
other factors are more likely to have been the catalyst as they occurred just before the 
cancellation. However, it doesnt appear that UKI has declined the claim based on the cause 
of the cancellation and so I dont need to make a finding on this.
The reason given by UKI for refusing the claim is that the costs of the flights are recoverable. 
The relevant part of the travel insurance policy states that it doesnt cover recoverable 
costs, which it goes on to describe as Any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
UKI has said that, as Mr C and Miss H were offered a refund of the cost of the flight tickets, 
albeit in the form of credit voucher, the cost is recoverable  and therefore not covered by 
the policy. From looking at Mr C and Miss Hs policy terms and conditions it, like most, if not 
all, travel insurance policies on the market, only provides cover for irrecoverable costs. This 
is because insurance is designed to indemnify the policyholder only if they are unable to 
reclaim their losses from any other source. As Mr C and Miss H were offered a credit for the 
cost of the flights by the airline, which could be used at a later date, this would mean that 
they have recovered their loss. 
  
Mr C and Miss H have said that when they called UKI they were not told that they wouldnt 
be covered if they were offered a credit voucher  so they believe UKI should now pay the 
claim. Unfortunately, UKI have been unable to locate the call recording for this conversation 
and so Im unable to say for certain what was discussed in this call. Ive thought about this 
very carefully and whilst I can appreciate Mr C and Miss Hs strength of feeling on this 
matter, Im not persuaded that UKI needs to do anything further.
Mr C and Miss H have told us the phone call took place before they cancelled their flights 
with the airline. They have also said that it wasnt until they were cancelling the booking that 
the airline offered them the credit voucher. This means at the time of the call, neither party 
would have known the airline would offer this credit. So, I dont think this situation would 
have been discussed in the call. Mr C and Miss H think UKI should have explained all the 
possible reasons why their claim might not have been covered, but I dont think it would be 
practical for this to have happened. There could be numerous reasons why any claim may 
not be covered and so it would be unfair to expect UKI to list all the potential exclusions and 
conditions from the policy during such a call. Im therefore not persuaded Mr C and Miss H 
were misinformed by UKI in this call.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im satisfied that UKI has fairly 
declined Mr C and Miss Hs claim, based on the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman