DRN-1943867
The complaint
Mr M complains as director of S, a company, that Brightside Insurance Services Limited mis-
sold him a restaurant policy, leading to a claim for a fire at Ss premises being declined.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr M called Brightside to arrange a commercial policy for Ss restaurant. 
Brightside sent him a quotation for a new policy. On 28 December Mr M called to purchase 
the policy. He was called back the next day and Brightsides agent asked him if he wanted to 
go back over the endorsements or had any questions about the insurance. Mr M said he did 
not, as he had had all the necessary information sent to him by email. He went ahead and 
purchased the policy for S.
In March 2019 there was a fire at the restaurant which destroyed the property. Mr M made a 
claim to the insurer. But after a review of the circumstances of the fire, the insurer refused to 
pay the claim. This was because Mr M was in breach of a warranty in the policy which 
required cooking ranges exhaust hoods ducting, and flues of the apparatus to be cleaned at 
least every six months. The fire investigator determined the likely cause of the fire was built 
up grease in the extraction system. Mr M was unable to show that the system had been 
cleaned in the six months prior to the fire. Mr M made a separate complaint about the insurer 
which was determined by a final decision of this service which found the insurers action to 
be reasonable.
Mr M complained that Brightside hadnt drawn his attention to the cleaning warranty in the 
policy. He said that he wouldnt have purchased the policy, had he known about the 
warranty. Brightside said it gave Mr M all necessary information when he purchased the 
policy.
On review by this service our investigator found that Brightside had acted reasonably.
Mr M didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I should make it clear that Im only considering here the complaint about 
Brightside and the sale of the policy to Mr M. As Ive said, the complaint about the insurer 
has now been dealt with.
When Mr M first enquired about a policy for the restaurant, Brightside gave him a quote for a 
standard policy over the phone. Mr M asked to think about it and specifically asked for the 
quote to be emailed to him. Brightside did this along with all the policy documents. Ive 
listened to the call recordings when Mr M contacted, and was called back by Brightside later. 
The adviser asked him if he wanted to go through the endorsements on the policy or if he 
had any questions, He said he didnt, having had all the information sent to him. He went 
ahead and purchased the policy.
The policy documents contain the following warranty, which Mr M was said to have been in 
breach of, which says:
Policy warranty number 7:
All cooking ranges exhaust hoods ducting, and flues of the apparatus be inspected and 
cleaned at least once every 6 months by an independent qualified contractor and all greasy 
deposits removed and not allowed to accumulate.
Arguably this was an important term and should have been drawn to Mr Ms attention. But 
Ive noted that Mr M specifically said he didnt have any questions about the policy and didnt 
need the endorsements explained to him. Additionally such a term is common in a restaurant 
policy and I think it unlikely that he would have been able to buy a restaurant policy without 
such a term in it. Kitchen fires are a very substantial risk, particularly those involving a build-
up of grease and fat in the ducting so any insurer would require those precautions to be 
taken.
In conclusion I think that Brightsides offer to go through the endorsements on the policy with 
Mr M was reasonable, but he declined. I also think it very unlikely that he could have got a 
policy elsewhere without the cleaning requirement in it, so I dont think that Brightside mis-
sold the policy here.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman