DRN-4235642
The complaint
Mr D complains Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) have unfairly defaulted him and reported adverse 
information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). Hes also unhappy about the level of 
service hes received.
What happened
In February 2015, Mr D entered into a 48 month hire agreement for a new car. In February 
2019, he entered into an informal extension of the agreement so he could continue to use 
the car. In March 2020, the agreement came to an end.
Following the return of the car, Lex said he owed around £4,800 in charges, broken down as 
follows: 
- Excess mileage £3,701
- Damage to the car £615
- Excess rental £556
This outstanding balance went unpaid for quite some time despite Lexs correspondence to 
Mr D saying he needed to pay them. As the charges werent paid, Lex later defaulted the 
account in September 2020. 
In September 2022, Mr D complained about the above and a number of other issues such 
as:
- His credit file had been impacted by information reported by Lex and it should be 
removed;
- He disputes the above charges and he believes he should be able to pursue this via 
legal channels;
- The cars sunroof and passenger door didnt work;
- The excess milage was covered outside the formal agreement;
- When the agreement came to an end and the charges were applied, he was 
vulnerable.
Lex said they were entitled to apply the above charges and they were calculated correctly. 
However they said they failed to follow their internal process about the number of 
correspondence to be sent about the balance owed. Because of that, they said they would 
be willing to remove the adverse information from Mr Ds credit file upon him paying the 
charges. They also paid £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Lex later sent 
further correspondence which conflicted this  stating they had indeed followed their correct 
internal process. 
Unhappy with their response and the conflicting outcomes, he referred it to our service. Our 
investigator recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He concluded based on the terms of 
the agreement, Lex were allowed to apply these charges and he found they had been 
calculated correctly. He also said Lex had sent numerous correspondence to Mr D about the 
balance owed but as the sums werent received, Lex did nothing wrong by reporting adverse 
information to the CRAs and defaulting the account. Mr D disagreed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I will explain why. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. I also note Mr D has raised 
a number of complaint points. I can reassure both parties Ive thoroughly reviewed 
everything that has been submitted but in this decision I wont address everything. I will only 
comment on the issues that I consider to be key in reaching a fair outcome. 
The charges
Mr D disputes the above mentioned charges. As a starting point, Ive referred to the terms of 
the agreement subject to this complaint. I wont repeat them again as the investigator has 
already set them out in his opinion. However in summary it says Lex are entitled to charge 
excess mileage, damage to the car and continued use of the car up to the point it is returned 
and the agreement comes to an end. So I disagree with Mr Ds comments that the above 
charges are outside of the agreement and its a legal matter rather than one related to the 
credit. I find these charges form a part of the hire agreement that Mr D signed and agreed to 
in February 2015.
Excess mileage  Mr D had a mileage allowance of 24,000 miles for the duration of the initial 
48 month agreement. It said if he exceeds that amount he would be charged 20.1 pence per 
mile. In this case, Mr D had use of the car beyond the 48 month duration, he had it for 
around a further 12 months and the same mileage allowance applied- that is 6,000 per year 
(total of around 30,000 miles). So when determining mileage at the end of the agreement, I 
would expect Lex to take that into account and based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
theyve done so. When the car was returned, it had travelled around 45,826 miles which 
exceeded the allowance by over 15,300 miles therefore the excess mileage charge applied. 
Based on the figures of the invoice, Im satisfied Lex calculated this charge correctly and 
they are entitled to say Mr D owes this amount to them under the agreement.
Damage to the car  the terms of the agreement outline when the car is returned it will be 
inspected and any damage found beyond fair wear and tear, will be charged to cover the 
cost of the repair/replacement. When determining what is fair wear and tear, Lex has 
referred to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVLRA) guidance. This is 
industry wide guidance that applies for when new cars are returned which is the case here 
so I consider it fair for Lex to rely on it. 
 
When looking at the pictures and videos of the car taken when the car was returned, Ive 
referred to the BVLRAs guidelines. I wont repeat each one in full as the investigator has 
already done so. But having done so, Im satisfied the damage identified went above what 
the BVLRA would consider fair wear and tear therefore I find Lex were entitled to charge for 
this. Given the car was in Mr Ds possession for around five years, I find its most likely the 
damage was caused by him and not caused by a third party when the car was collected. 
Excess rental  Mr D entered into an informal rental extension between February 2019 and 
March 2020. From my understanding the agreement was he would continue to pay the same 
monthly payments of around £706 which Mr D went on to do. However based on when his 
last payment was made to Lex and when the car was given back, there was a period of time that went unpaid. As Mr D was in possession of the car and had use of it, I find Lex were 
entitled to say he needed to pay for that time period.
From my understanding, Mr D wishes to make a reduced offer to settle the above charges. 
However I must stress Lex arent obliged to consider nor accept a reduced amount to settle 
the agreement in full.
Taking everything into account, based on the terms of the agreement, Im satisfied Lex were 
entitled to apply the above charges and they did so fairly and reasonably. So I cant say they 
did anything wrong. 
The default and the impact to the credit file
Lex has provided copies of the three invoices sent to Mr D in relation to the charges. They 
reiterated this was the amount he owed to them following the end of the agreement and they 
asked him to pay it. 
As they failed to receive these sums, they wrote to him on two separate occasions in March 
and April 2020. Having read these letters, I find it was made clear by Lex to Mr D that there 
was an outstanding balance and payment was required immediately. It was evident Mr D 
had to take action. I note the letter sent in March 2020 also says:
Our records show that your account is in arrears. To assist you we enclose a statement of 
the account. Could you please make payment of the arrears within 10 days from the date of 
this letter. We may report this as a late payment to a credit reference agency. This may 
affect your ability to obtain or extend credit facilities from other finance companies. If you 
need any help or cannot make full payment of the arrears and want to discuss an alternative 
solution, please telephone quoting your fleet number and we will try to help you.
Based on this, I cant agree with Mr Ds comments that Lex failed to let him know about any 
potential impact on his credit file should he not take action. Im satisfied they did. 
I know Mr D vehemently argues he never received the correspondence about the invoices or 
the outstanding balance owed. As already mentioned, Lex have provided copies of the same 
and I can see they were all addressed to Mr D at his postal address. I note its the same 
address our service holds for him. Mr D questions whether the correspondence was indeed 
sent by Lex but I have no evidence to suggest they werent. 
I note in Mr Ds submissions that at the time the invoices were sent he says he wasnt 
staying at his address due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While I accept that to be the case, it 
wouldve been his responsibility to let Lex know his up to date contact details. There is no 
indication Mr D told Lex he had moved or wasnt staying at his address so I cant reasonably 
say they did anything wrong by sending the correspondence to the address they held for 
him. They were not required to contact Mr D by other channels such as phone or email, it 
was reasonable for them to send it by post. 
Overall, Im satisfied Lex acted fairly and reasonably in making Mr D aware that there was 
an outstanding balance for him to pay and should he not take the required action, further 
steps would be taken. 
There is insufficient evidence Mr D paid the sums owed or he contacted Lex to discuss it. 
Therefore I find they acted fairly in reporting adverse information to the CRAs. Lex has an 
obligation to report fair and accurate information to the CRAs and based on no payment 
being received from Mr D, I find this was a fair reflection of how the account was being 
managed at the time.After months of not receiving the money or any contact from Mr D, Lex decided to default the 
account and given the circumstances, I find it was fair for them to do so. Therefore I wont be 
asking them to remove it. 
Other 
Ive thought about Mr Ds other complaint points regarding the service he received from Lex 
when he complained to them and the conflicting complaint outcomes he received. Theyve 
paid £75 compensation and I consider this fair based on whats happened. 
Additionally, given the conflicting complaint outcomes, Lex has agreed to remove the 
adverse information from Mr Ds credit file once hes paid the outstanding amount owed. As 
Lex arent obliged to do so (for the reasons outlined above), I cant say they are acting 
unreasonably. I wont be asking Lex to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my outcome. I recognise his strength of feeling 
about the situation and his wish to pursue matters via a legal route. As weve already 
explained we are an alternative to the courts so should he not accept this decision, he is free 
to seek other alternative dispute resolution. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman