DRN-2205082
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) removed funds from her account.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs W transferred £11,277 from a joint account held with her father into her 
sole account  on the advice of Barclays. There was a history of family disputes. Another 
member of Mrs Ws family (who I shall call A) held a Lasting Power of Attorney over his 
fathers financial affairs and contacted Barclays. In October 2019, Barclays transferred 
£8017.60 out of Mrs Ws sole account  pending an investigation. In November 2019, the 
funds were transferred back into Ws sole account by Barclays.
Mrs W complained. She said Barclays had no right to remove the money from her account. 
She said that Barclays had effectively made a judgement that she wasnt entitled to use the 
money. She said she was being discriminated against, and Barclays were favouring A over 
her in the matter.
Barclays said they were correct in originally advising Mrs W to transfer money from the joint 
account  to ensure that A couldnt access the money  he couldve done so as he had an 
LPA. And  they had the right to remove funds from an account where there was a 
suspected fraud. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said Barclays had acted 
correctly. It acted within the terms and conditions of the account. And they had to take 
allegations of fraud seriously. He said that Barclays were also correct in advising Mrs W to 
transfer money from the joint account to safeguard the money  as shed told them she was 
concerned about it being removed. This was essentially a civil dispute between Mrs W and A 
 hed seen no evidence that Barclays had discriminated or victimised her.
Mrs W asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Mrs W has said to us about her complaint  and Im also aware of the 
background here. Ive also taken on board what Barclays have told us. 
The background here is a deep-rooted family dispute. Mrs Ws father was in care. A 
obtained a Lasting Power of Attorney over his affairs. Mrs W had a joint account with her 
father. She advised Barclays she was concerned that A would unfairly remove the money 
from that account  so Barclays suggested she transfer it into her own account. Later, in 
October 2019, A lodged a complaint with Barclays about what had happened. And so, 
Barclays then had to investigate this. So, they transferred the amount in dispute - £8017.60 
 out of Mrs Ws account while they looked into what had happened. Mrs W feels strongly 
that Barclays have discriminated against her and victimised her. I think thats because she 
feels they concluded that she had acted fraudulently in the first place  by investigating what 
had gone on. 
Ive considered what Barclays terms and conditions say  and they do have the right to do 
what they did. They can block or suspend an account, and do not have to give any notice to 
do that. They say:
we may stop or suspend the use of any of your payment tools:
if we reasonably think it necessary to protect the security of the payment tool or 
account
if we suspect or you tell us there may be an unauthorised or fraudulent use of the 
tool
if we find we need to do this, well contact you using the details you have gives
us as soon as we can (and in advance where possible) to explain why, unless that would 
break the law. If the reason for stopping or suspending the payment tool no longer applies, 
well unblock it or replace it.
And - under the heading When we do not have to follow your instructions it explains Well 
do all we can to carry out legal instructions. However, we dont have to follow an instruction 
if:
we reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to fraud or
any other criminal activity, including where the funds are being obtained through
deception
Under section 9 If something goes wrong: If some takes an unauthorised payment from your
account: If you tell us a payment from your account wasnt authorised (for example, 
someone else made it), you can ask us for a refund. You need to tell us as soon as 
possible Unless we have reasonable grounds to think youre not entitled to a refund, well 
put your account back as if the payment hadnt happened. This includes refunding the 
amount of the payment, refunding any charges and interest youve paid, and paying you any 
interest youve missed out on. You wont have any further claim against us. If we have 
reasonable grounds to think youre not entitled to a refund at the point you ask for one, we 
may look into your claim further before giving the money back.
When any bank, including Barclays, are advised of a dispute between parties to a bank 
account, they must investigate what has happened. Thats to protect the interests of all 
people concerned. And clearly  thats whats happened here. Mrs W  for good reasons  
had transferred money from the joint account with her father into her own account. A had 
then raised a dispute with Barclays about this - so they had to look into it. And, to protect all 
parties to the dispute  Mrs W and A - they removed the money from Mrs Ws account while 
they did that. £8017.60 was removed on a temporary basis. After Barclays had finished their 
investigation, they put it back into Mrs Ws account. This was in a fairly short space of time  
between 7 October 2019 and 1 November 2019. Ive seen nothing to suggest that this 
caused Mrs W any financial hardship. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that Barclays did 
anything other than what they had to do. Nor have I seen anything to indicate that they 
prejudged Mrs W to have committed fraud  they simply had to investigate the complaint to 
ensure they reached the right conclusion for all parties.
As our investigator said, this is really a civil dispute between members of Mrs Ws family  
its not for Barclays to be involved in it. And as I see it, Barclays cannot, and have not taken 
sides in the case.
So  while I can see that Mrs W feels strongly about what happened  Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anymore here.
  My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman