DRN-3668504
The complaint
Mr F complains about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limiteds (Mulsanne) delay in settling 
his car insurance claim. 
Any reference to Mulsanne includes the actions of their agents. 
What happened
Mr F was involved in a collision with a third party and the matter was then referred to an 
Accident Management Company (AMC) to carry out repairs. The AMC wrote to Mulsanne 
to say Mr Fs car had been declared a total loss so theyre unable to progress the matter. 
Mulsanne then valued Mr Fs car at £3,680. The AMC then chased Mulsanne for several 
months and asked them to arrange to pick up Mr Fs car. Mr F felt things were taking too 
long so he complained. 
During our investigation, Mulsanne arranged a further valuation and this valued Mr Fs car at 
£3,700. Mulsanne also accepted theyd delayed in contacting Mr F following the AMCs 
decision and offered compensation of £100. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F. He thought Mulsanne had provided a fair 
valuation for Mr Fs car but recommended they pay £325 compensation for the delays 
caused in dealing with the claim. Mulsanne agreed but Mr F disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr F will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Car valuation 
My starting point is Mr Fs car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, under the heading The most we will pay is the lower of:, the market 
value of the insured vehicle immediately before the loss or the cost of repairing the insured 
vehicle. 
The policy defines market value as The cost of replacing your insured vehicle with one of 
similar type, age, and/or condition at the time of the loss as assessed by us. We use guides 
which refer to vehicle values, engineers and any other relevant sources to assess the market 
value. The policy goes further to say If the insured vehicle is a total loss and we have 
agreed to compensate you under the policy, but the amount to be paid cannot be agreed 
between us, an independent engineer shall be appointed by the claims administrator to 
decide the amount to be paid to you. The independent engineers decision will be binding 
upon you and upon us.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. 
I note Mr F says Mulsannes valuation doesnt represent a fair market value. Ive seen that 
Mulsanne reached their original figure by using industry recognised tools to find out the 
market value of the car. Mulsanne have provided information which shows an independent 
engineers original search with Glasss returned a valuation of £3,680. And, taking into 
account two further motor trade valuations, the average figure was £3,014  but they offered 
a settlement figure in line with Glasss valuation. The second valuation, which was carried 
out by a separate independent engineer, provided a Glasss valuation of £3,700. This 
engineer only used one motor trade guide to value the car. But, across the two independent 
engineers, Mulsanne had obtained valuations from three motor trade guides. So, I think 
Mulsanne followed a fair and reasonable approach
I can see our service obtained four valuations. Glasss have valued Mr Fs car at £3,680, 
Cazoo is £3,499, CAP is £2,975 and AutoTrader is £3,571. I believe the CAP valuation is an 
outlier as its significantly less than the other three  which are all relatively close in terms of 
valuation. So, I think its fair and reasonable to discount the CAP valuation and calculate an 
average from the remaining three. This gives a valuation of £3,583 and Mulsanne have 
offered £3,700. So, as well as following a fair approach, I think the settlement theyve offered 
is fair and reasonable. 
I note Mr F feels a valuation of £4,000 is fair and that is the offer he feels Mulsanne should 
make to settle his claim. Its not the role of this service to put an exact value on a car. When 
looking into these types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider 
whether the insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them. Its our role to make sure 
Mulsanne is giving Mr F a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. And based on the 
information provided about Mr Fs car and using the trade guides, I think £3,700 is a fair 
price. I can see Mr F queries how Mulsanne can accurately value his car a year after the 
accident. I acknowledge Mr Fs point, but I dont think this has disadvantaged him. I say this 
because Mulsanne used a motor trade guide which took into account the date of loss when 
valuing Mr Fs car so this would take into consideration all relevant factors from the date of 
loss in August 2021.   
I note Mr F says he was under the impression he wouldnt have to pay any excess as this 
was a non-fault incident. Mulsanne say Mr F has claimed against his policy so the excess 
would apply. Ive looked at the policy and this defines Excess as the amount Mr F has to 
pay towards any claim. It goes further to say You are responsible for the excess even if the 
incident is not your fault. So, given that Mr F is claiming against his policy, even though the 
third-party insurers have admitted fault, the terms and conditions say Mr F is still responsible 
for the excess. 
Delays 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr F. The key facts about this part of the complaint 
arent in dispute. Mulsanne have admitted they got things wrong and accept, once they 
received a report from the AMC, they didnt contact Mr F within a reasonable timescale. The 
only issue I have to decide for this part of the complaint is whether the payment of 
compensation theyve made is fair and reasonable.I think its right that Mulsanne should compensate Mr F for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by Mulsanne and what the impact of those 
errors has been. Its clear Mr F was left anxious when he didnt know what was going on and 
frustrated at the lack of updates. This continued for a number of months and led to Mr F 
referring his complaint to our service.  
So, I dont doubt that Mr F has been inconvenienced but Ive got to take into consideration 
that Mr F did replace his car so it hasnt been the case that Mr F was left without a car for a 
significant period of time. While there have been delays, I cant say there will be a lasting 
impact on Mr F, so I think compensation of £325 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Mulsanne have carried out a fair valuation, so they should pay Mr F 
£3,700, if they havent done so already. And, to reflect the significant impact caused by their 
delays, they should pay Mr F compensation of £325.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman