DRN-4166273
The complaint
Ms P complains that Metro Bank PLC did not action a transfer request for her Individual
Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Ms P says that her ISA with Metro Bank expired on 30 May 2022. She says she actioned a 
transfer request to another provider, but that, twice, Metro said it hadnt received it. She adds 
that Metro Bank did not respond to her complaint on 19 June 2022 and, in the meantime her 
interest rate had reverted to 0.25% when it would have been earning significantly more with 
the new provider. Ms P says that finally, on the 27 July 2022, the new provider received a 
letter from Metro Bank which said it was unable to accept the transfer out as it hadnt 
provided the full postcode. She says that she has now had to visit the local city numerous 
times to try to get this resolved and that Metro Bank is now saying the National Insurance 
number provided by the new provider is incorrect. Ms P says she did not recognise the 
National Insurance number Metro Bank said it had recorded for her and she is getting 
increasingly stressed.
Metro Bank says the first communication it received from the receiving bank was on 25 July 
2022 and it was awaiting further action from them. It says it has no record of Ms Ps 
complaint on 19 June 2022 and that it is not at fault for the delay.
Metro Bank subsequently accepted it should have noticed the issue with the National 
Insurance number at the same time as the incomplete postcode and that this caused part of 
the delay, for which it offered Ms P £100. It further added that it wasnt satisfied with Ms Ps
signature on the form.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that if Metro 
Bank had identified all the issues initially, it was likely that the transfer would have been 
actioned much sooner. She recommended that Metro Bank should pay Ms P the difference 
in interest she would have received had the transfer been processed on 26 July 2022, rather 
than the date it was actually processed, plus £200 for the stress this has caused to Ms P.
Metro Bank agreed to the £200 compensation, and to pay the difference in interest from 26
July 2022 to 28 December 2022 when the transfer was actioned.
Ms P responded to say, in summary, that:
Metro Bank did not add the 0.25% interest to her balance transfer;
Interest should be paid from 31 May 2022 as she was incorrectly informed that Metro 
Bank didnt do electronic transfers;
It caused her considerable embarrassment and distress when Metro Bank insisted 
her National Insurance number was wrong;
£200 is meagre considering the hours spent travelling to her local city multiple times 
over seven months.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Ms P and to Metro Bank on 9 May 2023. Ive summarised 
my findings below:
Ms Ps electronic transfer request was rejected at the end of May 2022, and when 
Metro Bank said it had not received a further two requests, she went into the city 
again in June, to complete a transfer form dated 22 June 2022;
After two more visits to the city in July, with evidence of the completed transfer form, 
Metro Bank said it had still not received the request;
Metro Bank says it received the transfer form on 25 July 2022 and contacted the new 
provider to say the postcode was incomplete, so Ms P again went into the city to 
send a transfer form with the correct postcode;
On 8 August 2022 this transfer was again rejected as Metro Bank said the National 
Insurance number was incorrect. This turned out to be a Metro Bank error and after 
causing Ms P further distress, embarrassment, and delays, this was corrected;
Once the National Insurance number issue was resolved, Metro Bank then said 
Ms Ps signature wasnt acceptable, so she went into the city to complete further 
forms;
Ms Ps ISA was finally transferred on 28 December 2022, to an ISA with an interest 
rate of 3.85% - 3.6% higher than her money had been earning since 31 May 2022;
Based on the evidence I saw, I found:
oMetro Bank did nothing wrong by rejecting the original electronic transfer on 
25 May 2022, although Ms P says she was told it was due to the bank not 
using this methodology, rather than the request being rejected for errors;
oAlthough Metro Bank had not provided a final statement that showed it added 
the 0.25% to the balance it transferred to the new provider, I was satisfied 
that it did so having seen the balance when the account matured and the 
opening balance of the new account;
oThere was nothing to indicate that Metro Bank received the transfer form 
dated 22 June 2022 before 25 July 2022;
I considered Metro Bank, at this point, should have:
oRequested the postcode to be completed;
oQueried Ms Ps National Insurance number;
oRejected the signature;
I, therefore, found it likely, that the transfer could have been completed by 26 July 
2022, but did not find it reasonable that Metro Bank should pay the higher rate of 
interest from 31 May 2022 because:
oI was satisfied that Metro Bank was not responsible for the delay between 31 
May 2022 and 26 July 2022;oIt was already paying a higher differential in interest because of the interest 
rate changes between the original transfer request date and when the transfer 
was actioned.
With regard to the compensation offered, I found this was a little on the low side 
because:
oThere were further delays after this figure was agreed;
oIt took seven months in total for the transfer to be actioned;
oMs P needed to make multiple trips into her nearest city, spending hours on 
public transport to do so;
oMs P spent further time trying to resolve the issue at home, including lengthy 
phone calls;
oMs P received poor customer service in branch on at least two occasions;
oThe issue with the National Insurance number was caused by Metro Bank 
and resulted in further anxiety for Ms P;
oBased on this services guidance I found compensation of £400 to be more 
appropriate.
In summary, my provisional decision was that an additional 3.6% interest should be applied 
to the account between 26 July 2022 and 28 December 2022, and that compensation of 
£400 should be paid to Ms P.
Metro Bank responded to accept my provisional decision.
Ms P responded to say, in summary:
That she considered Metro Bank had lied to the new provider as it told them it did not 
do electronic transfers;
She thought the only reason the transfer finally happened was due to two efficient 
staff members that she met in Metro Bank in December 2022;
Her money would have been earning 1.35% from 31 May 2022 had Metro Bank 
transferred the ISA efficiently so she would like that interest paid, but accepts the 
additional 3.6% offer from 26 July 2022 to 28 December 2022;
That Metro Bank claimed not to have received multiple communications and forms;
That she would like an apology and a written explanation of how her National 
Insurance number was wrong in Metro Banks records, why the issues with the 
transfer form were not brought up earlier and why she did not receive notice of where 
her funds were along with a closing statement;
That £800 compensation is more appropriate for the trauma, expense, time, 
inconvenience, poor customer service and lack of communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Ms Ps points above:Whilst I dont doubt that Ms P was told that Metro Bank didnt do electronic transfers, 
and Im satisfied that is incorrect, that is not the reason the initial transfer was 
rejected;
Had Metro Bank transferred the money on 31 May 2022, I accept it would have been 
earning 1.35% from that date. However, it would not now be earning 3.85%, and 
given that Metro Bank has agreed to backdate this higher rate of interest, it is not 
reasonable to also ask for the additional interest rate from 31 May 2022 to 25 July 
2022;
I accept that Ms P was told Metro Bank hadnt received a number of documents 
shed sent, and Ive taken this into account within the compensation 
recommendation;
This service has asked Metro Bank to provide the written explanation Ms P has 
requested;
I note that Ms P originally requested £600 compensation, and now feels £800 is more 
appropriate, but I still consider £400 is fair having considered all the circumstances.
Although I acknowledge Ms Ps comprehensive response, I cant see that she has provided 
any new information, so I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank Plc should:
Apply the 3.6% difference in the interest rate between 26 July 2022 and 28 
December 2022, as it has agreed to do;
Provide Ms P with a final statement for her old account;
Pay Ms P £400 compensation for the stress and inconvenience this has caused to 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman