DRN-3956999
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Tradex Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
he made under his taxi insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Tradex in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr R bought a taxi insurance policy with Tradex through a broker. He was involved in an 
incident with another vehicle and reported it to Tradex. 
Tradex discovered that the car Mr R had insured with it was under a finance agreement 
between the person Mr R said he had bought it from (which Ill refer to as Mr B for ease) and 
a finance company. So it said Mr R didnt have an insurable interest on the vehicle and 
declined his claim. 
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt think Tradex had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr R wants an ombudsman to decide. He wants me to listen to phone calls he had with 
Tradex. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A motor insurer provides indemnity on the basis that the policyholder has an insurable 
interest in the vehicle. In this case, Mr R says he bought the car from Mr B. There were 
inconsistencies in the information Mr R provided Tradex with: about the amount he said he 
bought the car for and evidence of repayments by way of bank statements Mr R said he 
made to Mr B which didnt match. Mr R said the finance company was happy with the 
agreement for him to repay Mr B by way of instalments. Mr R later said he wasnt aware 
there was a finance agreement in place. 
The V5C registration document showed the registered keeper of the vehicle changed to Mr 
R in October 2021. However, this didnt confirm that Mr R was the registered owner. The 
owner was the finance company. 
There was a balance owed to the finance company when Mr R made a claim. This was 
under an agreement between Mr B and the finance company. So Mr R wasnt able to show 
Tradex he had an insurable interest in the car. 
Tradex provided a copy of the finance agreement. On review, the terms were breached 
when Mr B sold the car to Mr R. As the finance company owned the car, it wasnt Mr Bs car 
to sell. 
Mr R may have been able to take ownership of the car once the finance had been paid. But 
as things stood at the time of the incident, Mr R did not have an insurable interest in the car. 
I understand my decision will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I dont think Tradex has 
done anything wrong, so Im not asking it to meet the claim. I think it has fairly rejected his 
claim in line with the policy. 
I dont think it is necessary for me to listen to calls Mr R had with Tradex. This is because my 
decision is based on the evidence of ownership and insurable interest, evidence of 
payments, sales receipt and the policy. This evidence is sufficient for me to decide Tradex 
has acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Mr R is unhappy that Tradex has kept the premium he paid under the policy. As Tradex is 
obliged to deal with the third party claim in line with the Road Traffic Act, a claim has 
therefore been made under the policy and so the full years premium is due. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman