DRN-2573152
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited wrongly mis-labelled a claim under her 
pet policy and consequently unfairly increased her premium.
References to Aviva includes all its agents. Mrs F is represented by her husband Mr F.
What happened
Mrs F insured her dog with a policy underwritten by Aviva. Following a successful claim, Mrs 
F then saw her premium increase. 
So, she complained to the administrator who sold them the policy and that complaint was 
upheld in her favour. That ombudsman said she didnt receive enough information about 
how life time pet policies operates more particularly that the premium increases. So, she was 
awarded some compensation for that in the sum of £350. As this matter has already been 
decided by another ombudsman, Im not permitted to discuss any of the issues again in this 
decision. 
Mrs F also believed that Aviva made an error with the premium increase and it incorrectly 
decided the condition for which she claimed was now an ongoing condition which was the 
cause of the significant premium increase. And so, she complained to Aviva about this. 
Aviva didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mrs F didnt agree so she bought her 
complaint to us. The investigator also didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. As Mrs F 
still disagreed her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Ive looked at the vet history for Mrs Fs dog. On 30 November 2016 the vet notes say her 
dog suffered hive like lesions all over its body and was given anti-histamines. Then on 28 
January 2019 her dog presented to the vet with the fact he was licking two paws, the left 
front and the left hind and was limping on the left front during a walk. The vet noted both 
paws has some alopecia as in no fur. The vet said the following:
Poss ST injury or f# of metatarsal. Could also be due to pruritis as 2 limbs?
Plan:
Trail nsaids to rule out pain. INI resee tx as pruritis, or have in for sedation to fully 
examine.
The dog was seen by the vet again on 7 February 2019 where it was noted he was still 
limping and toe I front paw swollen and v painful, suspect #, adv rads under sed=/- fb to 
investigate. 
Then the vet wrote in the notes on 8 February 2019 the following: 
Rads  unremarkable, no evidence of fracture or luxation, no soft tissue swelling, 
nad within paw, no wounds, no FB entry points, nails wnl  slightly more dried crust 
around digit2 nail base but otherwise vnl.
Noted a few small areas of alopecia on both LF and LH  no pyoderma, no scale. 
Inhouse skin scrape no evidence of mites.
Given lack of orthopaedic findings or soft tissue swelling suspect primary skin dz. 
[my emphasis].
Elect to take samples for dermaphyte culture and skin scrape to lab.
In mean time start on apoquel, rilexine for possible nail bed infection and would 
advise bravecto. 
The claim form which Mrs Fs vet submitted to Aviva never mentioned anything concerning a 
nail bed infection, at all. 
So, it isnt the case that Mrs Fs claim was just for a nail bed infection as she has said, it was 
for the investigation of the limping, paw licking of two paws with a little subsequent alopecia. 
The medication prescribed was an anti-inflammatory initially, plus an allergy medication  
apoquel and then some antibiotics. 
So, given the previous history of hives plus this inconclusive history of paw licking, plus the 
claim form contents, I dont consider Aviva deliberately misinterpreted the claim in any way. 
Theres simply no evidence that it has. The vets evidence as written in the vet history is very 
inconclusive in the first place with the emphasis more on a hypersensitivity and pruritis basis 
than anything else in my opinion.
The condition claimed for must be labelled as something for Avivas records and on the 
basis of this evidence above, I dont consider Aviva did anything wrong with labelling the 
claim initially as hypersensitivity given the hive history or indeed then amending it to pruritis. 
From the underwriting guide, whatever Aviva called it doesnt make any difference with 
regards to the premium increase. 
Aviva is entitled to rate any risk as it thinks fit provided it shows it would do the same for any 
other policyholder in the same situation. Aviva has shown us that, so I consider this 
reasonable. But its information thats commercially sensitive, so Im not permitted to share 
this with Mrs F more so since we publish our decisions where the business is not 
anonymised. Thats called its commercial discretion and its not something I or this service 
would interfere with. 
Aviva is also entitled to set the price of the risk so consequently entitled to raise it and again 
this service has no power to tell it what price that should be.
In life time pet policies, all claims are obviously logged and defined as this one has been. 
Given its a life time policy it makes no difference whatsoever whether the condition is a one 
off or one that may continue, as the condition is in any event covered. There also is simply 
no evidence to show that the extent of premium increase is because Aviva has decided the 
condition claimed here by Mrs F is because Aviva thinks it is an ongoing condition as Mrs F 
believes. Premiums for life time policies tend to increase with both the number of claims and 
the age of the pet insured, which is relatively logical given the usual risk assessments 
insurers use to rate risk to be covered and indeed the cost the risk might pose. 
My final decisionSo, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman