DRN-3217754
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Ms G took out in 2006 on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker who represented Aviva Administration Limited (AAL). Ms G, 
who has third party representation) is unhappy with several aspects of the mortgage, but 
chiefly that AAL recommended she consolidate existing consumer debts into the mortgage 
and take it on an interest-only basis without making sure she had a strategy for repaying the 
capital.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Ms G took the mortgage in 2006; it was for a little over £125,000 (including fees), on 
interest-only, and repayable after 20 years. The complaint is that the interest-only mortgage 
was mis-sold, and used to consolidate previously unsecured consumer debt. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms Gs representative has asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
In this decision I have to look at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered generally whether AAL did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In 
doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards as they are today, or to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all of this very carefully; its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and 
decide how much weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider 
individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion 
on the whole picture.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is the point-of-sale documentation from 2006. 
The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what 
was said and agreed at the relevant time. Unless theres a compelling reason to believe the 
information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it. Even if anomalies or 
mistakes are identified, that doesnt automatically mean a mis-sale has taken place. We still 
have to consider whether they might or might not have affected the suitability of the advice 
that was given. 
The essence of the complaint, as encapsulated in the witness statement presented by 
Ms Gs representative, is that AAL didnt provide Ms G with enough information about 
interest-only, the alternative capital repayment method, or the implications of consolidating 
debt over a longer term. 
However, the suitability letter AAL issued to Ms G in June 2006 goes into considerable detail 
on both issues. It says how AAL would normally be recommending a capital repayment 
mortgage, but that Ms G had expressed a preference for interest-only in the short term 
(around two years) whilst she stabilised her finances following a relationship break up. 
Accordingly, AAL recommended interest-only with a statement that Ms G should switch to 
repayment at the earliest opportunity, because: the longer you delay this the higher the 
overall costs will be over the term. There will come a point in time where conversion to a 
repayment mortgage over the same term will not be affordable. This could result in you 
needing to extend the mortgage term or risk losing the property.
In asking for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, Ms Gs representative says AAL 
should still have recommended capital repayment from the outset given Ms G could have 
afforded it. Everything has a context, and when I look at what AAL said in the suitability 
letter, I dont think it unreasonable to infer that AALs recommendation would have been for 
capital repayment but for Ms G saying she didnt want it right away. 
As for the consolidation element of the mortgage, the point of sale documentation shows that 
Ms G was taking the mortgage out to repay the existing joint mortgage and raise extra funds 
to clear some debt. In the suitability letter, AAL said:
After explaining to you the advantages and disadvantages of debt consolidation, you 
need to consolidate your existing debts into your mortgage To be able to achieve your 
current objectives.
By adding short-term debt to your mortgage you are increasing the total interest payable 
on your mortgage by £70549.88. 
Securing previously unsecured debt could result in you losing your home if you are 
unable to afford the repayments.
Consolidating your debts may reduce your monthly payments, but the total cost of 
borrowing may increase because the debt will be repaid over a longer time period.
Previous credit may have been on a fixed rate of interest, but once added to the 
mortgage the interest rate may vary over time. Consideration was given to any penalties 
that would be payable on settling the existing debt.
 
Im not sure AAL could have made either message any clearer or unambiguous. Overall, Im 
satisfied that in Ms Gs specific circumstances at the time, the recommendation AAL made 
wasnt unsuitable; nor was it made without adequate explanation of the potential 
consequences or other alternatives. The new mortgage created about £27,000 of new debt. The rest of the mortgage repaid debt 
that already existed. Ms G clearly wanted the mortgage (arguably she needed it in order to 
buy out her joint borrower) and must accept a measure of responsibility for having taken it. 
Taking it on interest-only made the monthly cost more manageable, but of course, it meant 
the capital wasnt being repaid. But Im satisfied AAL made Ms G aware of this, just as it did 
the consequences of consolidation. This was by any reasonable analysis an informed 
decision.
Ms G may not have intended to remain on interest-only for long; as I understand it, she was 
made redundant in 2008 and found herself struggling with the monthly payments as they 
were, so ruling out any notion of switching to repayment. 
Thats not something I can consider as part of this complaint, insofar as it happened later, 
and involved Ms Gs employment rather than AAL. Nor can I fairly criticise AAL for not 
predicting in 2006 that Ms G would lose her job in 2008. AAL could not possibly know that 
was going to happen when it recommended the mortgage. Of course, what can be 
concluded with some confidence is that the difficulties Ms G faced with the mortgage when 
she lost her job would have been more severe if she had already been on capital repayment. 
But that too could not have been predicted in 2006. I make the point simply for context and 
completeness.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman