DRN-1822415
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the mis-sale of an income payment protection (IPP) policy 
they were sold by an agent of Sesame Limited. Theyre particularly unhappy about the 
proposed redress. 
 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 20 April 2020, a copy of which is referred to and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In short, I said I thought 
the proposed offer in relation to Mr K was fair and reasonable but in relation to Mrs K 
Sesame should honour her 2018 claim on the basis of the 2017 IPP policy she had in place. 
And that Sesame should also cover her for any future claims that wouldve been covered by 
her 2017 IPP policy  for a maximum of 24 months from the date of the 2018 claim, or until 
shes able to source a new policy (whichever is shorter) as its possible she may be able to 
find a policy sooner. 
In summary, I required that Sesame do the following:
Pay Mr K the 2018 claim as it had proposed to do in its final response to Mr and Mrs 
Ks complaint  as if his 2018 claim was successful  with 8% simple interest less 
any tax, along with £100 compensation for trouble and upset. 
Pay Mrs K the 2018 claim (as above) on the basis of what she wouldve been paid by 
her 2017 IPP policy  applying any restrictions that wouldve applied to the 2017 
policy  if she hadnt been incorrectly advised to cancel it. 
Undertake to cover Mrs K for any future claims  for a maximum period of 24 months 
 from the date of the 2018 claim. Sesame Limited should also pay Mrs K £200 
compensation for trouble and upset caused.  
 
Sesame responded and made the following key points that it wants me to consider before 
the final decision:
Was Mrs K covered for £800 a month with her 2017 IPP policy as its been unable to 
locate this information?
It assumes that cover would be for a period of 24 months from October 2018, which 
is when Mrs K made the claim under the LV plan. The indemnity would therefore be 
for a period of six months from now. 
Within the LV plan there was a limitation on a further claim being made within six 
months of the last one. Could we clarify whether (or not) this was the same for the 
Aviva plan?
 
Mrs K also responded and made the following key points:She and Mr K also changed their life insurance policies. The life policies were valid, 
because they didnt have the requirement to be in the country for a period of time.
From what she recalls the policy amount she paid mightve been more than £800 a 
month. She could send us or Sesame a copy of the Aviva terms and conditions to 
clarify and speed up the process. 
She wants to know if the ombudsmans final decision will be binding on Sesame or 
will it simply be a recommendation that it is free to accept or reject.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusion regarding this complaint, remains as set out previously. So I 
still think it should be upheld, and for the same reasons.
Despite what the parties say, I dont consider that any new points have been raised, other 
than those key points already made and considered by me in my provisional decision. Ive 
considered all the points that I consider relevant to my decision and therefore I can proceed 
to make my final decision.  
It appears that Mrs K was paying around £800 a month for her policy, possibly a little more. 
She has agreed to forward the terms and conditions of the 2017 policy to help clarify the 
position, and I think she should do so to Sesame. 
In due course it may be that Sesame needs to get in touch with Aviva about this and any 
other restrictions that mightve applied to the 2017 policy.  
To clarify what I said, Sesame should undertake to provide cover for 24 months starting from 
the date of the 2018 claim made by Mrs K, I understand this to be October 2018.  As a result 
its likely that Sesame has to provide cover for another six months, possibly a little less if Mrs 
K finds a replacement policy sooner.   
I appreciate that within the LV policy there was a limitation on any further claim being made 
within six months of the last one. The LV policy limitations obviously dont apply in this case, 
however any limitations or restrictions that wouldve applied under the 2017 IPP policy 
should apply.    
Whilst my decision remains unchanged, Mr and Mrs K are under no obligation to accept it. 
But if Mr and Mrs K accept it Sesame will be bound by my decision. Unlike a 
recommendation, my decision will be legally binding and Sesame will be obliged to comply 
with my proposed redress. 
If Mr and Mrs K dont agree, Sesame isnt obliged to pay any redress.
 
Putting things right
 
Sesame Limited should do the following, unless it has already done so: Sesame Limited should pay Mr K the 2018 claim as it had proposed to do in its final 
response letter to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  as if his 2018 claim was successful  with 8% 
simple interest less any tax, along with £100 compensation for trouble and upset. 
Sesame Limited should pay Mrs K the 2018 claim on the basis of what she wouldve been 
paid by her 2017 IPP policy if she hadnt been incorrectly advised to cancel it. Therefore any 
restrictions that applied to the 2017 IPP policy should apply. 
Sesame Limited should also undertake to cover her for any future claims  for a maximum 
period of 24 months from the date of the 2018 claim. Sesame Limited should also pay Mrs K 
£200 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.  
Sesame Limited should pay Mr and Mrs K redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman