DRN-2394660
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society allowed 
her former partner to take a payment deferral on their joint mortgage without her agreement.
What happened
Mrs D and her former partner have a joint mortgage with Chelsea. Her former partner asked 
Chelsea for a payment deferral on the mortgage in March 2020, following the coronavirus 
pandemic and the first lockdown.
Mrs D complained. She said that Chelsea shouldnt have allowed a payment deferral without 
her agreement. She said that a court had ordered that her former partner be responsible for 
the mortgage. Chelsea has facilitated him breaching the court order. Chelsea should have 
carried out a full income and expenditure assessment before allowing him to withhold 
payments.
Mrs D says she spoke to Chelsea about this. She says it agreed to remove the payment 
deferral if she agreed to make the payments herself, but she cant afford to do so.
Chelsea initially agreed to remove the payment deferral, but then reinstated it. It said this 
was to avoid the mortgage falling into arrears, and it thought this was in the best interests of 
all parties.
Mrs D complained. She said that it wasnt fair to grant a payment deferral without her 
agreement. That resulted in the loan balance going up  and reducing her share of the 
equity in the property. Chelsea should be requiring her former partner to comply with the 
court order and should have investigated his circumstances. And she said it was a breach of 
the mortgage rules against auto-capitalisation without consent for Chelsea to add the 
deferred payments to the mortgage balance and increase the contractual monthly payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint so Mrs D asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that theres a dispute between Mrs D and her former partner about what should 
happen in relation to their finances, including the mortgage. Mrs D says theres an ongoing 
court case to finalise the division of their assets following their divorce.
Ive looked at the interim court order that Mrs D has given us. It doesnt in fact say that her 
former partner is responsible for paying the mortgage. It says that he is required to pay 
maintenance to her that is equivalent to the mortgage payments (though in practice he was 
paying the mortgage payments directly to Chelsea). If he hasnt complied with that order, 
thats a matter for Mrs D to raise with the court. Neither I nor Chelsea have any role in 
resolving financial disputes between borrowers.
Mrs D and her former partner took out this mortgage jointly. Both are parties to the contract 
and both agreed to make payments. They are jointly and severally liable, which means 
Chelsea can require either one or both of them to make payments, and both are responsible 
for doing so. A court order or other agreement that he is required to pay her maintenance 
makes no difference to that; Mrs D is still contractually required to pay the mortgage and 
liable if no payments are made.
This complaint is about a payment deferral Chelsea granted at the start of the coronavirus 
pandemic. When the UK was locked down in March 2020, various measures were put in 
place. 
One of those was a system of payment deferrals. The regulator told mortgage lenders to 
allow borrowers to take payment deferrals for a maximum initially of three months, later 
extended to six.
A very large number of borrowers applied for deferrals in a short space of time. It is 
estimated that at one point as many as one in six mortgages was subject to a payment 
deferral.
At a time of national emergency, when a very large number of people needed help in a very 
short space of time, there were limits on what it was practical for lenders to do. Making 
detailed assessments of every application wasnt possible. So the regulator told lenders to 
accept applications for payment deferrals, unless it was clearly not in the borrowers best 
interests to do so.
Chelsea granted a payment deferral in this case, on application from Mrs Ds former partner. 
While it already knew their relationship had broken down, it also knew he was the one then 
making the mortgage payments. It accepted his application for a deferral.
When Mrs D learned of the deferral and complained, Chelsea removed the deferral  on 
condition that Mrs D agreed to make the payments herself.
In fact, Mrs D didnt make the payments. She says she only agreed to do so to get the 
deferral removed.
This meant the mortgage went further into arrears. In March 2020, it was in arrears by just 
under one months payment. When no payments were made between April and August, the 
arrears increased significantly.
Chelsea reported the arrears to Mrs Ds credit file. That was fair, as it accurately reflected 
the fact that neither party was making any payments, and so the mortgage was in arrears.
Chelsea then reviewed the mortgage again. It agreed to reinstate the payment holiday, 
backdated to April. This means it removed the arrears, and removed the report of the arrears 
from Mrs Ds credit file.
I think this was fair and reasonable. It was in line with the regulators guidance that the 
payment deferral process should be quick, light touch and designed to support borrowers.
When the mortgage isnt being paid but theres a payment deferral in place, no payments are 
made. The missed payments mean that the mortgage balance doesnt come down each month as it should, and so more interest is incurred. The extra interest is added to the 
balance. And at the end of the deferral period the missed payments need to be made up.
When the mortgage isnt being paid and theres no payment deferral in place, exactly the 
same thing happens. The missed payments mean that the mortgage balance doesnt come 
down each month as it should, and so more interest is incurred. The extra interest is added 
to the balance. And the missed payments need to be made up.
The key difference is that where theres a payment deferral in place, the lender doesnt 
record arrears on the borrowers credit file. By putting the payment deferral in place, Chelsea 
put Mrs Ds credit file in a much better position than it would have been without the payment 
deferral.
Without the payment deferral, the mortgage still wouldnt have been paid. The balance would 
still have gone up. Extra interest would still have been added. The missed payments would 
still be outstanding. Financially, the position would have been the same. But Mrs Ds credit 
file would have shown six months of mortgage arrears for the next six years.
So while Mrs D was concerned that the effect of a payment deferral was to increase the 
capital balance of the mortgage, that would have happened anyway while neither of the 
borrowers were making payments. The only practical difference the deferral made was to 
ensure the missed payments werent recorded on either credit file. When their separation is 
resolved and Mrs D wants to move on with her life  possibly applying for a mortgage or 
other borrowing in the future  she will find it much easier to do so now six months of arrears 
arent recorded on her credit file.
Mrs D says that Chelsea should have made her former partner repay the mortgage, as per 
the court order. Chelsea has no power to enforce a court order in a case its not party to  
and, as Ive said, in any case the order didnt require him to pay the mortgage. It required 
him to pay Mrs D.
A lender cant force a borrower to pay their mortgage. If neither Mrs D nor her former partner 
paid the mortgage, and there was no agreed deferral in place and the arrears were going up, 
all Chelsea can do is take arrears management action  ultimately leading to repossession 
of the property. Lenders are barred from enforcing repossession until 1 April 2021  but 
steps short of that can still be taken, and the costs of doing so would be added to the 
mortgage balance.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I dont think it was unfair for Chelsea to agree and 
reinstate the payment deferral. Given she didnt take over the mortgage payments herself, 
any of the other options would have left Mrs D in a worse position. She would have had six 
months of arrears recorded on her credit file, as well as potentially arrears management and 
legal costs added to the loan balance.
A lender is required to act fairly taking into account their customers best interests, and I 
think Chelsea did that in this case.
Mrs D also points to the mortgage rule that says a lender shouldnt auto-capitalise arrears. 
There is such a rule, but it doesnt apply in this case. Agreed payment deferrals arent 
arrears. The regulators guidance on payment deferrals says a lender can auto-capitalise 
payments missed as part of an agreed payment deferral  but should explain the 
consequences of doing so, and if the borrower doesnt want that should agree alternative 
ways of making up the missed payments.Based on the situation at the end of the payment deferral, I dont think Chelsea acted in 
breach of the regulators rules in capitalising the deferred payments. But if Mrs D has 
alternative proposals for paying back the deferred payments, she can discuss that with 
Chelsea.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im satisfied Yorkshire Building Society 
trading as Chelsea Building Society has acted fairly and reasonably and so I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman