DRN-2010374
The complaint
Ms D says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage.
What happened
Ms D took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1992. At the same time, she took out a PPI policy 
which she paid for monthly. The policy covered Ms Ds mortgage payments if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. She paid £34.56 per month for 
the policy and it wouldve covered her mortgage repayments of £468 plus £3.00 for every 
£1000.00 of her initial mortgage, subject to a maximum of £1300 or the amount of her 
normal monthly payment, whichever was greater. This would have been paid for up to 12 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. Ms D disagreed. She said, in 
summary, she wasnt made aware what the PPI was for, or given enough clear information 
to judge whether she needed it.  
Ms Ds complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Ms D 
says this wasnt done. But she hasnt provided much information about what was actually 
discussed at the time. I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So, Ive 
relied more on what the documents from the time of sale show.
Looking at Ms Ds mortgage offer and mortgage application forms from the time of sale, I 
think from these it shows that PPI was not a condition of lending and it was optional. So, I 
think PPI was more likely discussed with Ms D and it was added because she said she 
wanted it. I can see that there was an interview and a detailed discussion about her financial 
situation. So, I think it more likely that Ms D opted to take the insurance having been told 
she didnt have to and following a discussion about PPI.
Lloyds advised Ms D to take the policy. What that means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms D could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. But, it also had to make sure that any policy it 
recommended was suitable for her needs.
I think PPI was a suitable recommendation for Ms D for the following reasons:
 Ms D was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
 Ms D recalled having a years worth of salary in savings. She wasnt able to provide any 
further information about these savings, but thats perhaps not unsurprising given how 
long ago this sale took place. However, it seems to me, if Ms D chose to hold on to 
these savings when she took out her mortgage, it was important to her to safeguard 
these for other purposes. So, I cant see that having these other resources made the 
policy unsuitable for her.
 At the time of the sale Ms D said she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer. 
So, I think the policy couldve provided her with valuable protection if she was unable to 
work through accident or sickness. It wouldve met her mortgage repayments for up to 
12 months per successful claim. It wouldve also paid out if she lost her job. 
 There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable for Ms D at the time. And 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it without losing 
out financially. She didnt have to pay interest on the monthly repayments.
 So, I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Ms D in her circumstances, 
to protect her home, especially considering she was taking on a significant and long- 
term financial commitment.  
Ive also considered whether Lloyds gave Ms D information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make an informed choice and decide whether she 
wanted to buy PPI. I dont know if Lloyds gave her all the information it shouldve. But, 
looking at Ms Ds circumstances, I still think she wouldve taken out the policy if shed been 
given all the proper information.  
So, I cant see that Ms D has lost out because of anything that Lloyds did wrong,
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman