DRN-2238167
The complaint
Ms J says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Ms J bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Although Ms J 
says in her PPI questionnaire that the policy was sold in a meeting, Nationwide says the 
policy was sold through the post. The evidence Ive seen suggests to me its more likely the 
policy was sold through the post and so Ive considered this complaint on that basis.
At the time, Ms J was employed as a support worker. She has told us she cant recall if she 
was entitled to any sick pay and has said she didnt have any other means of repaying her 
credit card should she be unable to work. Ms J has said she did not have any health 
problems at the time of the sale.
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Ms Js credit card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 60p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in June 
2006.
Ms Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Js representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Js representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should 
have told Ms J about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms J and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Ms J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Js complaint.
This sale took place in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2006. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC Code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of  
Ms Js case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Ms Js complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Ms J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Ms J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Ms J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms J suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms J and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms J know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form Ms J completed at the time of the sale. There is 
nothing on this form which would indicate to Ms J that she had to take out PPI. Rather, it had 
a separate section for PPI and provided Ms J with two equally clear options as to whether or 
not to take PPI. I can see that Ms J ticked the box to take PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms J knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Ms J is silent on this point. Looking 
at what happened when Nationwide sold Ms J the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because the PPI was sold through the post without any apparent 
involvement from a representative. 
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms J. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms J to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Nationwide has provided us with Ms Js application form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received 
including the policy the summary of the main exclusions  which I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Ms Js. 
Looking at the information provided to Ms J at the time, I dont think Nationwide gave Ms J 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against death, unemployment, accident and sickness. It also informed Ms J 
that the policy cost 60p per £100.
The information provided would have given Ms J a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Nationwides responsibility to draw to Ms Js attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy was made clear to Ms J, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant see that Nationwide 
adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations 
and exclusions. So I dont think Nationwide gave Ms J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing her 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Ms Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Js. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Js representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- the common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Ms J about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Js representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms J has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either.
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Ms J? To what extent did Ms J 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms J. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms J 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms J 
would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Ms J says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms J had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms J chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Ms J thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms J has suffered any loss or detriment. In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms J ought reasonably to have known she would have to 
pay something for the PPI  this was set out in the application form - and that it would cover 
a portion of her outstanding balance. But, I accept that Nationwide didnt make clear the on-
going cost information. So while Ms J didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought 
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms J thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for medical diseases/conditions that Ms J was aware of at 
the start date or which she suffered from in the 12 months prior to the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Ms J 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms J be unable to 
do her own job, or any job which her knowledge and training meant she could do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Ms J pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms J from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Ms Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms J didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms J would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms J had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
normal job but also unable to do any job which her existing knowledge and training allowed 
her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what she would do. And I accept it 
may have given her pause for thought  although given Ms Js circumstances and the limited 
other means she had to make her repayments if she wasnt working, on balance, I still think 
she would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms J would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought she was getting and it seems she didnt have any means of meeting her 
credit card repayments (or at least any that she can remember) if she was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness and, redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Ms Js representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the consumer 
wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. They 
say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Ms J would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Js 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Ms J 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms J believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms J in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should pay Ms J compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms J thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide gave Ms J, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2002 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Js representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms J and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms J in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman