DRN-3821095
The complaint
Mrs C complains that an iPad acquired with finance from Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs C was supplied with an iPad and entered into a loan agreement with Virgin.
In June 2022 Mrs C experienced issues with the iPad getting stuck in recovery mode.
Mrs C took the iPad to the genius bar but attempts to restore the iPad failed. The genius bar 
advised Mrs C that because the iPad was out of warranty the repair would be chargeable.
Mrs C complained. Her complaint wasnt upheld on the grounds that the warranty had 
expired. She was offered £60 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the iPad wasnt sufficiently durable and 
aid Virgin should arrange for repairs at no cost to Mrs C.
Virgin didnt agree. It said there was no evidence of a fault with the iPad and that the issue 
couldve been caused by accidental damage or liquid or third party software.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs complaint is about the quality of an iPad acquired with a  fixed sum loan agreement. 
This is a regulated agreement which this service has power to consider a complaint about.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects customers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says that in certain circumstances, the finance provider is 
legally responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. In 
practice, this means that if Mrs C has a claim against the supplier, she also has a like claim 
against the finance provider.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant here. It says that goods supplied must be of 
satisfactory quality, defined as meeting the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account the price, description of the goods and other 
relevant factors. Satisfactory quality also refers to the durability of the goods.
In the context of Mrs Cs complaint, I need to determine whether theres been a breach of 
contract on the grounds that the goods supplied were of unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs C was supplied with a brand new iPad, so Id expect it to be free from faults for a  
reasonable period of time and also to be sufficiently durable.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first 6 months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty within the first 6 months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the goods were supplied. Outside of the 6 months, its for Mrs C to show that the goods 
werent of satisfactory quality.
The iPad was supplied to Mrs C in June 2020 and the fault was reported 23 months later. So 
I think the onus is on Mrs C to show that the iPad wasnt of satisfactory quality, or wasnt 
sufficiently durable.
The iPad was inspected at the genius bar. The report says that the iPad was stuck in 
recovery mode. It also says that the iPad was in good condition and that the ports were free 
from damage.
Overall, the report persuades me that the fault with Mrs Cs iPad wasnt likely to have been 
caused by accidental damage, liquid or third party software.
I think a reasonable person would expect a brand new iPad to work beyond 23 months. 
Based on what Ive seen here, I dont think the iPad was sufficiently durable. This means it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and the finance provider must put things right.
Putting things right
Under the CRA the finance provider is allowed one opportunity to repair the iPad. Virgin 
should arrange for repairs to take place at no cost to Mrs C.
Mrs C has been caused inconvenience as a result of being supplied with an iPad which 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. Its fair to ask Virgin to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited must:
Arrange for the iPad to be repaired at no cost to Mrs C (or reimburse Mrs C for the cost of 
repairs if she arranges the repairs)
Pay compensation of £60 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman