DRN-3279556
The complaint
Mr N complained about an instalment loan he took out with Buffa Loans Ltd (trading as 
Buffa). 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr N took out a loan from Buffa for £460. Mr N mainly said that Buffa lent 
him the money irresponsibly without checking his financial situation. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed what Mr N and Buffa told us about this loan. In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ns circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr N for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr N provided, or the information Buffa 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Buffa shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr N had declared
as this was the first loan Mr N had taken out, Mr N didn't have any track record with 
the lender that shouldve alerted Buffa to any underlying money problems. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint so it came to me to 
decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Buffa provided Mr N with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ns income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint. 
Before lending to Mr N, Buffa asked Mr N for information on his financial situation, such as 
his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit commitments and 
carried out credit checks. Buffa said that as a result it agreed to lend Mr N a loan it worked 
out shouldve been affordable for him  he made other loan requests it didnt agree.
This was Mr Ns first (and only) loan with Buffa. So I think Buffa could potentially rely on the 
information Mr N provided. And looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan 
term, and taking into account all the information Buffa had on record for Mr N, including what 
it appears Mr N told Buffa about his monthly income and what he was paying out, this loan 
looked comfortably affordable for Mr N. I think its fair to say that there were some potential 
signs apparent on the credit checks that Buffa acquired to suggest Mr N was close to 
becoming financially stretched. He had used more than 90% of his credit available on cards 
and there was information showing he had defaulted on an unsecured loan taken out in 
January 2020  although the problem seems to have been sorted out by May 2020 when the 
credit report showed a nil balance on the account. The report showed he had in fact had two 
defaults within the previous 3 years and some payment issues on two accounts within the 
last 12 months.   
But his financial situation wasnt untypical of borrowers applying for expensive short-term 
loans of this type. And there were no signs of any serious black marks on his credit file such 
as bankruptcy of county court judgements against him or any particularly concerning 
information pointing to ongoing money problems or over reliance on expensive credit.
Its unclear whether Buffa looked at Mr Ns bank statements before lending to him - it said in 
its final response letter to Mr N that it had done although I havent seen this information in its 
file. But I also havent seen anything to make me think that information shown on Mr Ns 
bank statements would change my overall view. And in the context of the credit information 
Buffa had collected, which I have seen, I dont think that a proportionate check required 
Buffa to do more than it did in terms of checking. The loan looked like it should be affordable 
 and I think Buffa was reasonably entitled to make its lending decision on the basis of the 
information it had at the time.
Im sorry that Mr N had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Ns actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information Buffa obtained. But its reasonable to 
expect that Buffa couldve only decided Mr Ns lending application based on the information 
it had available at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable for Buffa to lend  especially as 
there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr N wouldnt be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
Buffa to probe any more deeply into Mr Ns finances or ask Mr N to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances.
I've taken into account everything Mr N has said, including his comments made in response 
to our adjudicators view. He told us he didnt feel that the interest on the loan was properly 
explained. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can 
appreciate that Mr N might now feel this has unfairly added to his debt problems. But the 
loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable and showed the total 
amount he would pay if the loan was paid in accordance with the contractual schedule of 
payments set out in the loan agreement. Mr N had to actively engage in the loan application 
process when he applied for this loan. The annual percentage rate of charge (APR) on 
Mr Ns loan was 1093.25% and shown on the agreement he signed. The agreement also 
showed he would need to make 6 payments of £143.53 and in total he would repay £861.18. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr N was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the interest wasnt 
properly explained or that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Buffa did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr N. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr N. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Buffa has confirmed it accepts my findings. 
I have heard nothing further Mr N and the deadline for responses has now passed so I think 
its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this complaint.  
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman