DRN-3233034
The complaint
  This complaint is about a new mortgage Mr M obtained from his existing lender, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, onto which he was looking to port his existing tracker rate. Hes 
unhappy that in Barclays initial offer, the tracker deal ran until November 2022, but the bank 
then replaced that with another offer in which the tracker deal only ran until April 2021.
Barclays said the first offer was an error, apologised and offered Mr M £200 compensation. 
Our investigator thought that should be increased by £300 to £500. Mr M has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
A further complaint about how Barclays dealt with some last minute changes just before 
completion, is being dealt with separately
What happened
 The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr M being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Barclays has always accepted its original offer, issued on 10 November 2020; was a 
mistake. It seems a system error caused the end date of the existing deal that was being 
ported to the new mortgage to be carried over wrongly. Once the bank realised its mistake, it 
issued a new offer; that was on 9 December 2020. 
During that time, Mr Ms initial buyer had pulled out and hed found a new one. Exchange 
and completion wasnt imminent, but he has told us the new buyer was looking to complete 
as soon as possible. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ms broker might have been pressed to start 
again to find a better deal from another lender without the risk of him losing his new buyer. 
But on its own, thats not enough to find that Barclays must honour the terms of the incorrect 
offer from November 2020. Ill explain why.
Firstly, the terms of the offer allowed Barclays to put right an error. If Mr M thinks he can 
force Barclays to honour the November 2020 offer legally, thats something he can pursue in 
court if he wishes. Id suggest he get legal advice before doing so. My remit is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable. In doing that, my starting point is that the whole essence of this 
transaction was that Mr M was porting the unexpired portion of his existing mortgage deal; 
so thats my point of reference. Mr M says neither he nor his broker had any reason to 
question the November 2020 offer or think it might be faulty. Im afraid I dont agree.
That existing deal, which had begun in December 2018, had an end date of 
31 December 2020. So if Barclays hadnt made the mistake in the first offer but issued it 
correctly, the end date of the ported tracker deal would have been 31 December 2020, 
always assuming Mr M could have completed his new mortgage before that date. Thats 
what the November 2020 offer should have said, and even if Mr M wasnt alerted to the 
anomaly, it was his brokers role to check the offer and make sure it was consistent with 
what had been applied for.
The other point about this is that when Barclays issued a new offer on 9 December 2020, it 
didnt do what, strictly speaking, it could have done; that is, issue it with a product end date 
of 31 December 2020. By issuing it with a product end date of 30 April 2021, Barclays was 
effectively extending the duration of the original 2018 deal when it didnt actually have to.
I cant know what alternative course of action would have been feasible if Mr M or his broker 
had identified the mistake in the November 2020 offer before Barclays did (or indeed if the 
mistake hadnt happened and it had been issued with the correct product end date of 
31 December 2020 in the first place). But I dont think taking no action at all was the right 
thing to do. 
Mr M had a duty to try and mitigate his position if he could. Meanwhile, when it realised the 
mistake had happened, Barclays did try to mitigate Mr Ms position by offering, in effect, to 
extend the term of the tracker deal by four months. When that is combined with the 
investigators recommendation of an increase in compensation from £200 to £500, I think 
Mr M has a fair resolution to his complaint.
 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint in part only, and order Barclays bank UK PLC to pay Mr M £500. I 
make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman