DRN-3469758
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Arrow Global Limited has asked him to repay a debt without giving him 
evidence that hes liable for it.
What happened
In May 2012 Arrow bought an outstanding debt in Mr Cs name. The debt relates to a credit 
card with a business I will refer to as B. Mr C took the credit card out as a student in the 
late 1990s but says the debt has since been written off. 
Mr C made token monthly payments against the debt for several years until around 
February/March 2017. In late 2017, at Mr Cs request, Arrow sent him a copy of a signed 
credit card application form. Mr C complained to Arrow in late 2021. He disputed Cabots 
ownership of the debt and wanted it to validate the debt instead of just sending him a copy of 
the application form. 
Arrow told Mr C that it became the owner of the debt in May 2012 and that it had sent him a 
notice of assignment shortly after. Arrow said that a copy of Mr Cs credit agreement had 
already been issued to him and that this showed the debt was enforceable.
The investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Cs complaint. She was satisfied that Arrow 
owns the debt. The investigator explained that she couldnt say if the debt was 
unenforceable. But based on the information we had, the investigator didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Arrow to ask Mr C to repay the debt.
Mr C was unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says that Arrow has only 
sent him a copy of the credit application form and not the signed credit agreement itself.     
Mr C says the debt is statute barred and feels that Arrow is harassing him for payment when 
he doesnt have any agreement with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Mr C is unhappy that Arrow hasnt given him validation of the debt because all that it has 
sent to him is a copy of the signed credit card application. This service cant declare a debt 
to be unenforceable or statute barred  this would be for a court to decide. With that said, 
even if it were to be found that the debt wasnt enforceable, that doesnt mean the debt 
wouldnt still exist. Its just that Arrow wouldnt be able to take certain legal action to recover 
it. 
Even though I cant declare the debt to be unenforceable, I can still consider whether Arrow 
has enough information to be able to reasonably ask Mr C to repay the debt. Arrow has 
given us a copy of a signed credit card application that it sent to Mr C. And it has provided a 
copy of the notice of assignment that it sent. I appreciate Mr C says he didnt receive the 
original notice of assignment but this doesnt mean Arrow didnt send it. Arrow also has 
evidence that Mr C has been repaying the debt over several years so I cant see theres any 
dispute that Mr C took the credit card out in the first place. I think Arrow has done enough to 
show Mr C that it owns the outstanding debt and that its entitled to try and collect it. 
Arrow has sent Mr C annual statements for some years. He has kindly given this service a 
copy of the annual statement that Arrow sent to him in October 2021. I dont find that Arrow 
has harassed Mr C by sending him annual statements as required by law. 
If Mr C still thinks the debt had already been written off, I recommend that he approaches B 
with his concerns if hes not already done so.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Arrow has treated Mr C unfairly so I dont require it to take 
any action in respect of his complaint. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr C.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman