DRN-3204664
The complaint
Mrs S complains that that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans provided her 
with loans that she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mrs S with two loans, one in October 2014, for £5,000 repayable at just 
over £193 a month, the second one in May 2017 repayable at just under £240 a month. Both 
loans were for 36 months. 
At the time of the sale of both loans, Everyday said its checks consisted of 
Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customer's primary 
bank account.
Obtaining and reviewing one month's payslip.
Conducting a Credit Search.
Carrying out a job check.
In practice what this meant in Mrs Ss case is that Everyday obtained a bank statement for 
her business, and it verified from her tax returns that her income from the business was 
sufficient to meet the repayments for the loan. Both loans were for the purchase of a car, but 
Mrs S has clarified that this was a personal, rather than a business expense.
As part of its underwriting, it used 35% of a customer's net income to calculate an 
approximate personal expenditure with a minimum of £500.00 and maximum of £1,000.00. It 
also added £80 expenditure per child in the household.
On review by our adjudicator, he said that Everyday should have been aware from its checks 
that Mrs S was in financial difficulties, and that she was unlikely to have been able to sustain 
the payments for the loan. On review of her personal bank statements he noted that Mrs S 
was consistently overdrawn at the time of both loans being issued. She was incurring bank 
charges and interest as a result.
Everyday pointed out that the bank statements referred to by our adjudicator were for a joint 
account. And that the loans werent joint loans so any assessment based on their joint bank 
statement would not be fair or accurate as this would include expenditure for Mr S. Mrs S 
had provided it with copies of her own personal (business) bank statement which was 
reviewed at the time the loans were approved. It provided a copy, from September 2014 and 
from this pointed out that her income credits and the statement summary showed that she 
received more than she had going out.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1Everyday calculated (in accordance with its process described above) that Mrs S had a 
monthly disposable income of £439 taking into account the Everyday loan repayment.
Everyday carried out a credit check on Mrs S and obtained evidence of the income from her 
business. Its affordability check estimated that her credit commitments amounted to 30% of 
her income, which I consider to be high. She had several loans and large credit card debts. 
And Mrs Ss debt balance was almost £20,000.
The business bank statement that Everyday saw showed, for mid-August to mid-September 
2014, payments in of £16,400 and payments out of around £5,800. Yet that cant represent 
the monthly income for the business. And on the balance sheet for 2014 which Everyday 
also sent us (which I presume to be the relevant page from Mrs Ss tax return) there is a 
figure of £16,400 for loans and overdrawn bank balances. The figure for the previous year 
was £20,500, and drawings then were considerably in excess of the net profit.
So whilst on the face of it Everyday assessed that Mrs S had a disposable income with 
which to pay the loan, I think Everydays checks were proportionate but it didnt react 
appropriately to the information it received
Ive reviewed the information from Mrs Ss personal account, which is a joint account. All the 
regular outgoings came out of this account. And it was consistently overdrawn over the limit 
and was incurring bank charges and interest. Whilst Mrs S shared the responsibility for the 
account with Mr S, Ive noted that she made regular transfers into the account from an 
account in her name with the same bank, that Mr S had a lower income and still the account 
was consistently overdrawn.  
As this was a personal rather than a business loan, I think the information Everyday obtained 
from its checks should have alerted it to carry out further checks. And I think that its likely 
that it would have assessed that Mrs S would have been unable to sustain the loan 
payments. I dont think Everyday made a fair lending decision here. 
loan 2 
Mrs S applied for this loan, again on a personal rather than a business basis, and again to 
buy a car. Her position hadnt changed that much from the time of loan 1. Her debt balance 
had increased by around £7,000, and her credit commitments against income again were 
high, at 33%.
Everyday had the benefit of its previous checks, and I think this should have alerted it to 
carry out further checks in light of what appeared to be a worse credit record. I havent seen 
the business account from the time of this loan, but again I can see that the joint account 
was still consistently overdrawn (this time just under the limit) and hadnt reduced very much 
since the first loan. Mrs S was again making regular transfers into the account, and its fair to 
say she had joint responsibility for managing that account.
Whilst Everyday has assessed that she had a higher disposable income, its not just the 
pounds and pence affordability to consider but her ability to sustain the repayments over 36 
months. I think in light of the information revealed by its checks that Everyday didnt make a 
fair lending decision here.
Putting things right
Everyday should:
refund all interest and charges Mrs S paid on loan 1 and loan 2.pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date(s)
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.*
remove any negative information if appropriate about loans 1 and 2 from Mrs Ss credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman