DRN-4184849
The complaint
X took out an interest-only mortgage with Accord Mortgages Limited in 2006. She complains 
that after her initial fixed rate product ended in 2009, the mortgage stayed on Accords 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for around ten years. X feels Accord should have told her she 
was being charged a high rate of interest and there were cheaper products available, which 
would have made her monthly repayments more manageable.
X would like Accord to refund the amount she feels shes overpaid, which shes calculated to 
be around £60,000, plus legal costs.  
What happened
In 2006, X took out an interest-only mortgage with Accord. The loan amount was £168,000 
and the term was 25 years. The mortgage offer sets out that X was to pay a fixed rate of 
interest at 5.49% until 31 March 2009. After this, the rate would revert to Accords SVR for 
the remainder of the term, which was 6.5% at that time.
In 2007, X borrowed an additional £18,500 on a capital repayment basis for a term of 
23 years and 10 months. X was to pay a variable rate, which was 0.85% above the Bank of 
Englands Base Rate until 31 October 2012. After this, the rate would revert to Accords SVR 
for the remainder of the term, which was 7.75% at that time.
On 1 April 2009, the interest-only part of the mortgage reverted to the SVR where it stayed 
until January 2019. During this time, X says she experienced periods of financial difficulty 
and the account became in arrears. Accord took legal action due to ongoing arrears, 
resulting in costs being added to the mortgage. X says she didnt realise she was being 
charged a high rate of interest whilst the mortgage was on Accords SVR until early 2019. 
In January 2019, X secured a fixed rate product at 1.6% until 30 April 2021 for both parts of 
her mortgage, which significantly reduced her monthly repayments. 
In March 2022, X complained to Accord. In summary, she said she was unhappy that it didnt 
tell her, or check that she had understood, that whilst the mortgage was on its SVR she was 
being charged a high rate of interest and there were cheaper products available, which 
would have made her repayments more manageable. As a result, she felt Accord should 
refund the amount she felt shed overpaid, which she calculated to be around £60,000, plus 
legal costs. 
In May 2022, Accord issued a final response letter. In summary, it said that X hadnt met its 
lending criteria for a new fixed rate product because she hadnt been up to date with her 
monthly payments for a specified amount of time. It also said X had a mortgage adviser 
assisting her and it had sent annual statements and product end letters, which would have 
informed X of the interest rate and product end date. It also noted that X had called Accord 
in January 2009 and was told her mortgage would revert to Accords SVR. It also offered to 
put her through to a colleague to discuss available products, which she declined. As a result, 
it didnt think it had made an error or treated her unfairly. 
Unhappy with Accords response, X referred her complaint to our service. In summary she 
said she didnt feel Accord had acted in her best interests whilst she was in arrears because 
it hadnt told her she was paying a high rate of interest and she would pay less if she took 
out a fixed rate product. She also felt Accord should have proactively told her about its 
eligibility criteria for a new product.
Our Investigator looked into whether we can consider the complaint and he concluded that 
we can only consider the events that happened within the six-year period before X made her 
complaint to Accord in March 2022. He couldnt see that a complaint about interest rates had 
been made earlier than this. This meant we couldnt consider what happened before     
March 2016. 
X didnt agree, so the matter was passed to me for a decision on whether we could consider 
the complaint. Having looked very carefully at everything the parties had said and provided, 
and applying the relevant time limit rules, I concluded that this service is only able to 
consider the events being complained about that took place during the six-year period 
leading up to March 2022.
The investigator went on to consider Xs complaint during the six-year period leading up to 
March 2022, but he didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, he said there was no 
regulatory obligation for lenders to actively contact their customers about applying for new 
rates or about lending policies. He was also satisfied that X hadnt been eligible for a new 
rate earlier than shed got one in 2019. As a result, he didnt think Accord had acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
X didnt agree with the investigator and reiterated her view that Accord hadnt acted in her 
best interests.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the arrears statement provided by Accord that Xs mortgage experienced 
regular and sustained periods of arrears of more than one month of payment from           
April 2009. Accord has also taken legal action due to the ongoing arrears on the account, 
including arranging repossession proceedings. Xs account remained on Accords SVR until 
January 2019.
Ive thought carefully about whether, during the time period I can consider, Accord should 
have done more to make X aware that her mortgage was on its SVR and offered her a new 
product, which might have reduced her monthly repayments.The terms and conditions of the mortgage make it clear that when the initial fixed rate ended, 
X would move onto Accords SVR, and thats what in fact happened. So, Im satisfied that 
the mortgage operated in line with the terms and conditions. 
Its a common feature of the mortgage market that once a fixed rate expires a borrower will 
often shop around for another preferential rate, either with their existing lender or moving to 
another lender. 
Ive reviewed the annual statements sent to X in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and the information 
provided in these statements makes it clear that X was paying Accords SVR, and also the 
percentage rate of interest that was applicable to the mortgage. 
Importantly, the 2016 and 2017 statements say:
You may be eligible to transfer your mortgage to a different product within our existing 
borrower range, subject to criteria
The statements went on to say, that for more information about the products available, X 
could visit its website or call a specific telephone number.
Further, in the 2018 statement, under the heading Reviewing your rate it said: 
It could be worth reviewing your current mortgage rate and seeing if you could save money 
by transferring to another product within our existing borrower transfer range. 
For information about the products available, the criteria youll need to meet to be eligible, 
and whether any early repayment charges will apply, talk to your broker, visit 
accordmortgages.com/switching-deal or call us on 0345 1200 891.
I think these statements make it clear that Accord provided a range of products. Further, the 
2018 statement made it clear that X may save money if she transferred to one of them. And 
if X wanted a new product, she needed to contact Accord and ask for one. It also makes it 
clear that X would need to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a new product, and she 
could ask Accord for information about this. 
Having reviewed all of the information available to me, I cant see any evidence that X asked 
for a new rate or queried what rates might be available to her during the time period I can 
consider, until January 2019  when Accord agreed to a new fixed rate product. 
Ive considered the history of arrears on the account and Xs view that a new preferential 
rate would have made her repayments more manageable, and this would ultimately have 
been in her best interests. But I dont think Accord has acted unreasonably by not proactively 
contacting X and offering her a new product whilst she was in arrears.
Accord has told us that X wasnt eligible for a new rate between March 2016 and        
January 2019 because she didnt meet its eligibility criteria. Accord has provided evidence to 
show, that to be eligible for a new rate, it required customers to be up to date with 
repayments for a specified period of time  and X didnt satisfy this requirement. 
The rules of mortgage regulation say that lenders must treat borrowers fairly. However, there 
isnt any regulatory requirement for lenders to offer a new rate.It isnt uncommon for a lender to require a borrower to be up to date with payments before 
agreeing to a new interest rate product. I also wouldnt have expected Accord to have 
proactively shared its criteria for new products with X, unless X had, at least, queried what 
products might be available to her- and I havent seen any evidence that indicates that 
happened. 
A new fixed rate would usually come with an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). And taking 
out a new product which would be subject to an ERC upon early repayment may not be in a 
borrowers best interests if theres a risk of repossession if the mortgage isnt sustainable in 
the long term. In Xs circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Accord to want to see X 
was able to make the mortgage payments for a period of time.
X did go on to ask Accord for a new rate in January 2019, and Accord agreed to this. Accord 
has told us that it agreed to this in error because Xs account hadnt been up to date for long 
enough to meet its criteria. But I can see that Xs account had been up to date since July 
2018, and I havent seen anything that indicates Accords error has caused any detriment to 
X. Nor do I think the error means Accord should have offered X a new rate sooner than it 
did.  
Considering everything, Im not satisfied that Accord has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman