DRN-3681694
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the amount Haven Insurance Company Limited paid in 
settlement of a claim he made under his commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise Mr R is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
van following a total loss claim under his policy.
Haven says the amount paid is the limit of cover under the policy, so no further amount is 
due.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was fair for 
Haven to restrict the settlement to the limit of cover, because this was based on an estimate 
provided by Mr R  who isnt a motor valuation expert. She thought Haven should pay 
£33,296, which was based on the average market value stated by two of the recognised 
motor industry trade guides.
Haven didnt respond to our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy explains the cover provided under Section B2, which is the section covering 
loss or damage to the vehicle other than by fire or theft:
We will cover You in respect of loss of or damage to Your Vehicle which occurs 
during the Period of Insurance caused by accidental or malicious means up to the 
Limit of Coverage specified in the Schedule and subject to the applicable 
Excess(es).
Under the provisions applicable to B2 it explains what happens when a vehicle is deemed 
beyond economical repair:
7.If We consider Your Vehicle is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident 
or incident covered by this insurance, subject to clause 9 below We will provide the  
owner of Your Vehicle with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage 
after deducting the Excess. You should be aware that We are entitled to provide 
settlement up to the Limit of Coverage after deducting the applicable Excess(es) in 
full and final settlement of Your claim for damage to Your Vehicle, even if that value 
is under-stated. Our obligation to repair Your Vehicle shall be limited to the cost 
calculated by applying the proportion that the value of the repair service that We are 
to provide bears to the Market Value of Your Vehicle up to the Limit of Coverage less 
the applicable Excess(es).
The limit of cover is set out in the policy as, The value shown in the schedule.  And the value 
shown on Mr Rs schedule is £30,000.
Market value is defined in the policy as,
Market Value
The cost of replacing Your Vehicle with one of similar make, model and 
specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of Your Vehicle. 
To determine the Market Value, we will typically request the advice of an engineer 
and refer to guides and any other relevant sources.
Haven initially deemed the market value of Mr Rs van to be £30,464.50. But it later 
increased this to £31,100  the policy limit plus the excess. But looking at the trade guides I 
find a better reflection of the market value of Mr Rs van is £33,296. This is the average of 
two of the three guides we typically use when assessing market value. The value returned 
by the third guide was significantly out of range of the other two, so I consider it reasonable 
to discount that valuation and instead rely on the remaining two, the range of which was 
£31,592  £35,000.
Although written into the policy terms, I dont consider that limiting the value of Mr Rs 
settlement to the amount shown on his schedule leads to a fair answer. I say this because 
the amount shown was an estimate Mr R gave based on what he thought the value of his 
van likely was. But I havent seen anything to show that Haven explained the importance of 
this estimate, or that it would be used to set a limit of coverage.
This is a market value policy, not an agreed value policy and applying this term only benefits 
Haven, not Mr R. I say this because where the market value of Mr Rs van is above the 
estimated value shown on the schedule, the term means Haven only need pay the lower 
amount. But if the market value had been below that stated on the schedule, again, Haven 
would only need pay the lower amount. I dont consider that this delivers a fair or reasonable 
outcome for Mr R.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Haven would have charged a higher premium 
had Mr R estimated the value as £33,296 instead of £30,000. So, I cant see that Haven has 
been prejudiced by Mr Rs low estimate of the value of his van.
So, taking all of the above into account, I dont think Haven has treated Mr R fairly and 
therefore Im upholding his complaint.Putting things right
Haven Insurance Company Limited should settle Mr Rs claim based on the market value of 
his van. I consider £33,296 to be a fair reflection of the market value. Haven is able to 
deduct the policy excess from this amount, but it cant apply the policy limit set out in the 
schedule.
Haven paid the initial settlement directly to Mr Rs finance company, which is in line with 
the policy terms. Should an outstanding amount remain on the finance, Haven can pay any 
additional settlement directly to the finance company again. But should any additional 
amount be owed to Mr R, I think Haven should add 8% simple interest to that amount from 
the date it paid the first settlement payment to the date it settles the claim in line with this 
decision. This is to compensate Mr R for being deprived of the use of that money for other 
purposes.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Haven Insurance Company Limited must: 
Settle Mr Rs claim based on the market value of his van being £33,296. It can 
deduct the policy excess from this amount, but it cant apply the policy limit set out in 
the schedule.
Should an outstanding amount remain on the finance, Haven can pay any additional 
settlement directly to the finance company. But if any additional amount is owed to 
Mr R, 8% simple interest* should be added to the payment Haven makes to Mr R. 
This interest should be calculated from the date it paid the first settlement payment to 
the date it settles the claim as outlined in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
*If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman