DRN-4269848
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, who Ill call Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but while I think Moneybarn should pay some limited 
compensation, I dont think they need to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed in excess of 77,000 miles. 
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
Moneybarn arent responsible for everything that goes wrong with the car. Theyre only 
responsible for its condition when supplied.
The independent inspector, who looked at the car in April 2023, noted that the clutch was 
heavy. It was, however, his expert opinion that the fault wouldnt have been likely to have 
been present or developing when the car was supplied. On that basis I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Moneybarn to take any action about that fault.
Mr B has also complained of problems with the gearbox and the headlight. I think its likely 
there were faults with those components when supplied but the relevant legislation allows 
the business an opportunity to repair those faults, and thats whats been done here. So, 
again, I dont think it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to take further action.
The relevant legislation explains that goods shouldnt be considered to be of unsatisfactory 
quality if the consumer ought to have noticed the fault upon reasonable inspection before 
agreeing to the deal. I think its fair to suggest the bodywork issues Mr B complains of would 
have been apparent on a reasonable inspection. So, I dont think they made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. And, even if Im wrong about that, I think an element of body work 
damage is to be expected on a car of this age and mileage and I dont think the damage 
claimed is excessive bearing that in mind.
Tyres are parts subject to wear and tear and I dont think, in these particular circumstance, it 
could fairly be claimed that problems with them would render the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
The independent engineer was unable to identify the presence of any adverse suspension 
noise or grinding gears, and I dont think there is therefore evidence to substantiate Mr Bs 
claim there were faults in those areas.
Moneybarn have an obligation to report missed payments accurately to the credit reference 
agencies. As payments have been missed I cant say theyve been wrong to do so.
 
Mr B says the car doesnt have a service history or logbook. It may be that the logbook is 
with Moneybarn as they are still the legal owner of the car until the finance agreement is paid 
off. I cant see that Moneybarn have yet replied to that concern, or indeed if Mr B still has it. 
And Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest the car hasnt been appropriately registered. 
If Mr B still has concerns over that I will leave it open for him to raise the issue with 
Moneybarn as until theyve had the opportunity to consider it, this Service cant.
Mr B is also upset that he hasnt received any service documentation. Im not sure, as I 
havent seen evidence, that the car came with any service history or that any service history 
that may have been claimed had not been completed. On that basis I dont think there is 
evidence the car was misrepresented to Mr B. Mr B has also suggested the mileage may be 
wrong but hasnt provided evidence in support of that claim so I dont think I can fairly 
suggest that was likely to be the case.
Mr B did, however, have problems with the gearbox and headlight and its only fair that 
Moneybarn provide some compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
when supplying a car that was, initially, of unsatisfactory quality. He had to take the car back 
for repairs on a couple of occasions and was worried for the safety of his children when 
driving the car. He was also provided with a courtesy car that he has suggested had some 
faults, so I think his driving was a little impaired. All told, I think Moneybarn should provide 
£175 in compensation directly to Mr B. If Moneybarn have already provided the £150 they 
say they have, they can deduct that from the £175 Ive awarded.
Putting things right
Im asking Moneybarn to put things right in the way Ive set out above and detailed below.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Moneybarn No.1 
Limited to pay Mr B £175 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. They can deduct £150 if theyve already paid that, or deducted it from arrears.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman