DRN-3413197
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the replacement phone American International Group UK Limited (AIG) 
sent to him after he claimed under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N claimed under his mobile phone insurance policy after his phone was stolen. He 
received a replacement in line with the policy terms and conditions. However, Mr N 
complained to AIG because the replacement phone was of poor quality, with previous 
repairs evident. 
Throughout the course of his complaint, Mr N experienced delays and difficulty 
communicating with AIG due to long on-hold call waiting times and claims handlers failing to 
follow the correct process.
AIG agreed it hadnt provided the standard of service Mr N couldve expected. It offered him 
£55 compensation for the service shortfalls and a second replacement phone once Mr N 
removed the phone locator function. 
Mr N didnt think it was enough and he asked AIG to refund his premium payments for the 
last 11 years along with his policy excess. AIG increased its compensation offer to £105 and 
maintained its offer to replace the phone. He declined the offer and refused to remove the 
locator function.
Our investigator thought AIG had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint, so he didnt 
think AIG needed to do any more.
Mr N disagreed. He repeated his request for a refund of his premiums and excess, and said 
he wanted AIG to reimburse the cost of the new phone he had since bought.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Faulty replacement
The policy provides for a replacement phone, which AIG sent to Mr N. He complained that 
the phone was faulty. AIG offered to replace it and asked Mr N to remove the phone tracking 
function. I consider that a reasonable request because the requirement is set out in the 
policy:
Step 3: For Damage or Breakdown claims, if Your Device has any software locking 
mechanism (e.g. Find My iPhone/iPad or similar feature), You must disable or remove the 
software and confirm that You have done so to [AIG] before [AIG] can proceed with Your 
claim.
Im satisfied that AIG agreed to resolve this issue fairly, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Its offer remains available to Mr N once he removes the phone tracking function, 
so I see no reason to ask AIG to do anything more in respect of this issue.
Policy excess
Mr N asked AIG to refund his policy excess. Ive looked at the policy and I see that the 
excess was payable when AIG accepted Mr Ns claim. It replaced his stolen phone and 
offered to provide a second replacement when he explained it was damaged on receipt. 
Therefore, Mr N made a successful claim, so I see no reason to ask AIG to refund the 
excess.
Premiums
Mr N also asked AIG to refund all policy premiums paid for the last 11 years because he 
hasnt had the service he paid for. I cant agree. As Ive said, AIG replaced his stolen phone, 
which is what the policy provides cover for. So, its clear that Mr N made a successful claim 
under his policy. I wouldnt expect AIG to refund payments for previous years just because 
Mr N had a poor experience for this claim. Fortunately, it seems he didnt have any need to 
make a claim in the past, but that doesnt mean AIG didnt provide the cover he was paying 
for. The cover was available to Mr N.
Therefore, Im satisfied its reasonable for AIG to keep Mr Ns premiums because it provided 
the insurance cover he paid for. I wont be asking it to issue a refund.
Customer service
AIG accepted Mr Ns complaint about the shortfalls in customer service. He experienced 
delays, difficulty communicating with AIG by phone, and its claim handler didnt follow the 
correct process. The shortfalls are not in dispute, so Ive thought about whether AIGs 
compensation offer was reasonable. 
Mr N brought his complaint to our service around three months after AIG first accepted his 
claim. During that time Mr N experienced long call waiting times to discuss his claim, though 
I also see AIG sent regular update letters. After its initial offer of £55 in recognition of the 
service shortfalls, AIG increased its offer to a total of £105. Although I accept the delays and 
waiting times wouldve been frustrating for Mr N, furthered by the claim handler failing to 
follow proper process, the delay from claim to AIG offering a second replacement was 
relatively short. Its current offer is in line with the award Id make in similar circumstances for 
this type of case, so I see no reason to ask AIG to increase it.Reimbursement for new phone
Mr N bought a new phone and asked AIG to reimburse the full cost. The policy states:
Replacement Devices:
If [AIG] replaces the Device, the replacement Device will be of the same make, model, 
and condition of the Device immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the claim.
Where [AIG] replaces the Device, the replacement will likely be a remanufactured  
not brand new  Device. Remanufactured Devices may contain non-original, third 
party, or unbranded parts.
IMPORTANT: Please note that [AIGs} obligations under this Policy are to provide You 
with a replacement Device that is of the same kind, quality, and condition as Your Existing 
Device immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the claim. [AIG] is under no 
obligation to provide You with a new replacement Device, and there is no guarantee that 
You will receive a new replacement Device.
The policy provides for a replacement in the same or similar condition to the one that was 
stolen from Mr N. Given that the policy doesnt provide for a new phone, and AIG has offered 
to replace the faulty phone, Im satisfied that AIG is not responsible for covering the cost of 
Mr Ns new phone.
In summary, although Mr N experienced some delays and customer service shortfalls, the 
evidence suggests that AIG made a fair compensation offer along with the option for Mr N to 
have a second replacement phone to put matters right. Im satisfied thats in line with the 
policy, and fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I wont be asking AIG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman