DRN-4196095
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Studio Retail Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided him with 
two catalogue shopping accounts in 2019 and 2020. 
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit account with Studio Retail in November 2019. He was approved for 
the account which was set with a £250 limit. This was later increased in March 2020 to £350. 
The in January 2020 he opened a second account under Studio Retails Ace brand. The 
limit on the second account was also £250 and this never increased.
Mr R has said that the accounts were never affordable and shouldnt have been given to 
him. He says at the time he applied he already had some County Court Judgements (CCJs) 
for unpaid debt on his credit file and was in arrears on one of his credit cards. He believes it 
shouldve been evident to Studio Retail that he was struggling to manage his finances and 
that it shouldnt have given him the accounts or indeed increased the limit of the first one a 
few months after he opened it. He has asked that Studio Retail refund all the interest and 
charges added to the accounts since they were opened. 
Studio Retail says that at the time Mr R applied for his accounts it ran all the necessary 
checks. It accepts that in November 2019 when he applied for the first account Mr R was in 
an arrangement plan on one of his existing credit accounts but says that it ensured the new 
form of credit was affordable by offering it with a low limit. It says it reviewed Mr Rs income 
and expenditure, credit file and debt to income ratio. Having done this, it believes the 
opening limit, and later increase in limit, on the first account, as well as the equally low limit 
on the second account, were affordable. So doesnt think it was wrong to provide him with 
the accounts or the limit increase. 
Unhappy with Studio Retails response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint already. She found that there was sufficient evidence 
in November 2019 to indicate that Mr R was struggling to properly manage his existing lines 
of credit. And that Studio Retail shouldve realised that providing him with more credit was 
likely to cause him additional problems. So, she didnt think it was appropriate for it to have 
provided Mr R with the account in 2019. In addition to this she also felt the decisions to allow 
Mr R to open a second account, and then a short time later increase the limit on the first 
account, were also inappropriate so she upheld his complaint.
Studio Retail disagreed with the investigators findings. It repeated its submissions that the 
opening credit limits on both accounts were extremely low and were affordable based on Mr 
Rs monthly disposable income. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so 
its been passed to me for consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of our investigator and dont think Studio Retail 
acted appropriately when it provided Mr R with the account in November 2019, or the 
subsequent limit increase and second account in January 2020. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
When Mr R applied for his account in November 2019 he completed an application form 
which asked him about his income, monthly outgoings and existing credit obligations. Studio 
Retail also ran credit report checks to understand how Mr R was managing his existing 
forms of credit. 
These checks indicated that each month, once all his existing monthly outgoings and credit 
obligations had been met, Mr R had a remaining disposable income of approximately £340. 
Given there were only a few weeks between the first and second accounts being opened Mr 
Rs circumstances were the same for both applications. 
Studio Retail has said that even if Mr R had fully utilised the entire £250 opening limit, his 
monthly minimum repayments would only be approximately £15, and so it felt the evidence 
indicated the account was affordable. The minimum repayments on the second account 
were likely to have been the same. And its said when the limit increase happened in March 
2020, the new minimum monthly repayment amount on the first account was approximately 
£20 and so its satisfied that both accounts were affordable. 
However, the rules which lenders need to adhere to dont just require them to check whether 
or not credit is likely to be affordable, but also whether or not its sustainable. In order to do 
this, its necessary for credit providers to understand how consumers are managing their 
existing forms of credit and to check whether theres any signs that these are becoming 
problematic for them.
When Mr R applied for his account in November 2019 he was already in an arrangement 
plan with one of his existing creditors and in arrears with another. In addition to this there 
were three credit searches showing on his credit file from the previous three months which 
indicate Mr R was trying multiple avenues to increase his access to credit. So, I think there 
was evidence that Mr R was struggling to manage his finances. I also note that within two 
weeks of his first account opening he had almost fully utilised the entire limit and this 
remained the case right up to the time Studio Retail increased his limit. 
Despite the fact that Mr R had reached almost the full limit on his account in a matter of 
weeks Studio Retail still approved the application for a second account a short time later. 
The fact that Mr R applied for more credit shouldve again alerted Studio Retail that he may 
not be managing his credit obligations well. This shouldve raised questions around the 
sustainability of the lending. So it appears Studio Retail missed some strong indicators that 
Mr Rs reliance on credit was starting to spiral. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator and think that there was sufficient evidence at the time 
he applied for his accounts with Studio Retail to show that Mr R was struggling to manage 
his finances and was having problems meeting his existing credit obligations. Which means 
that even though the accounts, with small opening limits, may have looked affordable on 
paper, Studio Retail shouldve considered whether or not they were likely to be sustainable. 
If it had I think it wouldve declined Mr Rs applications and refused to provide him with more 
credit when he wasnt able to maintain the lines credit he had available elsewhere. For these reasons Im upholding Mr Rs complaint in full.
Putting things right
Since bringing his complaint to Studio Retail Mr Rs accounts have defaulted and the debt 
was sold to a third-party debt purchaser. That third-party has pursued payment of the debt 
through the courts and a CCJ was issued against Mr R this year. 
Therefore, as Studio Retail no longer holds the balance on Mr Rs accounts, it should:
Refund all interest and charges added to Mr Rs accounts since their inception. This 
refund should be made directly to Mr R who can then use it to help repay the 
outstanding debt if he so wishes
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Studio Retail Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman