DRN-2736976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that TICORP Limited has charged them an administration fee for
cancelling their travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H bought their travel insurance policy through Staysure. Staysure is a trading
name of TICORP Limited. So Ive referred to TICORP Limited as Staysure throughout this
decision.  
What happened
On 6 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H bought a single trip travel insurance policy from Staysure.
They took out the policy online, at a cost £19.53, to cover a trip they were due to take on 4
April 2020. Cancellation cover under the policy started immediately and the policy had a
cover end date of 9 April 2020.
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised UK citizens against all but essential travel on
17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This meant Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be
able to travel as theyd planned. So on 18 March 2020, Mr H got in touch with Staysure to
cancel the policy. The insurers policy terms said that if a policyholder cancelled their policy
within 14 days of taking it out, theyd be entitled to a refund of premium. As Mr H asked to
cancel the policy within 14 days of buying the insurance, he wanted a refund of the
premiums hed paid.
Staysure told Mr H that its terms of business say that policies cancelled within the first 14
days of purchase would be subject to a £25 administration fee. As Mr and Mrs H had paid
less than the administration fee for their policy; Staysure said they werent entitled to a
refund. It did offer them a credit voucher for the cost of their policy, which would be valid for
three years and which could be put towards another travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Staysures offer. They said that due to Mr Hs health, they
wouldnt be in a position to travel within the next three years. And they also said that
Staysure hadnt told them about the administration fee when they took out the policy. They
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Staysure had treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. He noted that Mr and Mrs
H had ticked a box to confirm theyd read Staysures terms of business during the online
sales process. And he thought the terms of business made it clear that an administration fee
would be charged. So he thought Staysure was entitled to charge the fee and that it didnt
need to refund Mr and Mrs Hs premium.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They didnt think the fee had been mentioned until after the policy
had started. And they didnt think the policy terms and conditions made it clear that an
administration fee would be payable.  
I issued my provisional decision on 8 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think it was fair for Staysure to charge Mr and Mrs H an administration 
fee. I said:
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for 
Business) say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
FCA guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of
Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs
complaint, Ive had regard to these rules and guidance. Ive also taken into account the rules
set out in the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS 7.1.1 says a consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any
reason, certain contracts within 14 days. This is called the right to cancel and I think this
right to cancel applies to the contact of insurance Mr and Mrs H held. Mr and Mrs H
exercised their right to cancel by asking Staysure to cancel their travel insurance policy
within the first 14 days of taking it out.
ICOBS 7.2 deals with payment by a consumer for the service provided before cancellation. A
consumer may be required to pay an amount on cancellation including any sums that a firm
has reasonably incurred in concluding the contract  but this shouldnt include any element
of profit. The amount payable must not:
exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already provided in
comparison with the full cover of the contract; and in any case be such that it could be
construed as a penalty.
ICOBS 7.2.2 (3) says:
A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the amount payable
Staysure says the £25 administration fee charged to Mr and Mrs H reflects its costs in
administering the policy on behalf of the policy insurer. But Staysure is only entitled to
charge this fee if it can demonstrate that Mr and Mrs H were duly informed about the
amount payable when they took out the policy.
Ive looked at the information provided by Staysure showing the sales process for Mr
and Mrs Hs policy and thought about the available information about Staysures sales
process. Before going ahead with buying the insurance, Mr and Mrs H were asked to tick a
box to confirm they had read and accepted Staysures terms of business. The sale couldnt
have gone ahead unless they ticked this box.
When clicking on the displayed hyperlink to Staysures terms of business, Mr and Mrs H
would have been presented with two options  one terms of business for travel insurance
policies, and a second terms of business for a different type of insurance. Upon selecting the
terms of business for travel insurance, Mr and Mrs H would have seen details about the
£25 administration fee displayed towards the end of page two.
Staysures terms of business for travel insurance policies, at page two, say:
Your Cancellation RightsYou have the right to cancel new or renewed policies within 14 days of purchase or from the
date you receive your documents, whichever is later. If the policy is cancelled within 14 days,
you will receive a full premium refund less an administration fee of £25.
Staysure says its the consumers responsibility to ensure they have read the terms of
business before ticking the box on the online sales process to confirm theyve done so. This
then allows the policy purchase to proceed. And I agree it may have been reasonable for
Staysure to expect Mr and Mrs H to read information which was relevant to their policy in
order to satisfy themselves that they understood the terms and conditions of the cover being
purchased.
However, Staysures sales process didnt only rely on Mr and Mrs H ticking a box to
confirm theyd clicked on a link to read the terms of business. The sales journey also relied
on them then choosing the correct terms of business which was relevant to their
policy and reading through almost two pages of information before the £25 administration
fee was mentioned.
In light of this, I dont think it was clear or prominent from Staysures online sales process
that an administration fee would be charged, or what the amount of that administration fee
would be if Mr and Mrs H cancelled the policy in the 14-day cooling off period. So, it
follows that I dont think I can fairly say Mr and Mrs H were duly informed about the
administration fee for cancelling their policy within the first 14 days, in line with Staysures
requirements under ICOBS.
This means that I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for Staysure
to pay Mr and Mrs H a full refund of the premiums they paid, together with interest at an
annual rate of 8% simple.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
Mr and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision.
Staysure also accepted my provisional findings. It said the total refund amount would be the 
premium of £19.53, plus interest at an annual rate of 8% simple -  which it calculated to be 
£1.59. Its total offer was £21.12. Ive checked this interest calculation and it appears to be 
correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.  
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct TICORP Limited to refund Mr and Mrs H the full premiums they paid for their
travel insurance policy. It must also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date
of policy cancellation until the date of settlement.
*If TICORP Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman