DRN-2412078
The complaint
Miss R complains that Vehicle Credit Limited made an incorrect adverse credit entry on her 
credit file and, as a result, she wasnt able to obtain credit elsewhere. The incorrect entry has 
now been removed but Miss R would like compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by this mistake and for the impact its had on her credit rating. 
What happened
In February 2020 Miss R applied for credit and was refused. She checked her credit file and 
found that in January 2020 an outstanding credit agreement for £2,762 had been recorded 
against her by Vehicle Credit. 
This entry related to a car finance agreement that Miss R had taken out with Vehicle Credit 
in 2015 but which she had ended early in July 2017. At the time of this voluntary termination, 
Vehicle Credit had written to Miss R to say, the debt will be reduced to zero and we will 
report to your credit reference agency as a Voluntary termination with zero liability. Miss R 
was unhappy that, despite this assurance, Vehicle Credit had now put an adverse entry on 
her credit file.
Miss R said the entry had affected her ability to get credit elsewhere, which had affected her 
financially as well as exacerbating her current health conditions. She wanted the entry 
removed but also asked for compensation for the distress and upset shed had as a result of 
this mistake. 
Vehicle Credit acknowledged the entry shouldnt have been recorded and explained that it 
had occurred because, when Miss R had ended her agreement, her file had been sent in 
error to a debt collection agency. However, it said it would now arrange to have the entry 
removed and it had recalled Miss Rs file so that she was no longer being pursued for the 
outstanding amount. 
Vehicle Credit offered Miss R £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its mistake. It didnt agree that the problems Miss R had had in obtaining credit was due 
to this mistake so it wasnt willing to offer compensation for this.
Our investigator felt Vehicle Credit had dealt with the complaint fairly. It had taken the steps 
expected to put matters right when it realise thered been a mistake, and had done so within 
timescale allowed. She noted what Miss R said about her other credit applications but she 
didnt consider there was sufficient evidence to show that the credit marker was the cause of 
these being rejected so she couldnt ask Vehicle Credit to compensate her for this. She 
could understand how upsetting this situation had been for Miss R but there was nothing to 
show Vehicle Credit was aware of any specific health concerns before March 2020 so it 
couldnt have taken this into account at that time.
Miss R didnt agree and said it was clear from the information shed provided that shed been 
refused credit because of this entry being added to her credit file in January 2020. She said 
the mistake had had a significant impact on her health and finances and had also affected 
her credit rating which she was still trying to improve. For that reason, she didnt feel the 
compensation offered was sufficient to reflect this and asked for her complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman.
In my provisional decision on 4 November 2020 I came to a different view as to the remedy. 
In summary I said:
It was clear from the correspondence between Miss R and Vehicle Credit in 2017 
that following her early termination of the finance agreement, she had no ongoing 
liability to Vehicle Credit. On that basis, Vehicle Credit had made a mistake in 
recording the sum of £2,762 against Ms Rs credit file in 2020. While Vehicle Credit 
had agreed to remove the entry and offered Miss R £50 for their error, I didnt 
consider this was enough. 
This was because lenders use a range of criteria in deciding whether to make a loan 
to a consumer, including the level of their current liabilities and any indication that 
they may be having difficulties in maintaining repayments.  Factors such as late 
payments, or outstanding credit, may be taken into account and can have a 
significant impact on a consumers ability to get credit and, if so, on what terms. 
In this case the entry went on to Miss Rs credit file in January 2020. At the time she 
was applying for credit elsewhere but a number of her applications were refused. 
One of the companies explained its decision to Miss R by saying, Part of the reason 
we were unable to help further was due to an agreement seen on credit taken out in 
January 2020, due to the additional finance being taken out it breached our 
affordability calculations.
The agreement with Vehicle Credit was the only agreement recorded on her credit 
file in January 2020 and for that reason I was satisfied, on balance, that this was the 
agreement referred to in its explanation.
While I couldnt say that this mistake was the only reason Miss R hadnt been able to 
obtain credit at this time, it seemed clear that this entry had affected at least one of 
her applications. On that basis it was probable that other companies may also have 
taken it into account without knowing that the entry was a mistake.
Although Vehicle Credit had taken steps to remove the entry as soon as it was made 
aware, it explained it can take up to 60 days for corrections to be made to a credit 
file. In Miss Rs case this meant that the entry may have been visible from January 
2020 through to mid-May and during that time, Ms Rs credit status would have been 
adversely affected. For that reason I didnt consider that £50 was sufficient for the 
impact this would have had on Miss R and her finances at this time.
I could see that Miss R felt the mistake had had a significant impact on her finances 
and her health. However, while it was reasonable to think it would have had some 
impact on her ability to obtain credit elsewhere, there wasnt evidence to show it had 
been the only reason Taking all the information into account, I proposed that Vehicle 
Credit should pay Miss R £200 for the upset and inconvenience shed experienced 
as a result of its mistake.
Miss R has accepted the provisional decision. Vehicle Credit has said it has no new 
information to provide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent seen any new information to change my view as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Im satisfied that the incorrect entry on Miss Rs credit file gave an incorrect position of her 
indebtedness at that time and, as a result, it impacted on her ability to obtain credit 
elsewhere. That was supported by the response shed received from one company when 
she asked for more detail as to why her application had been declined.
Ive seen that Miss R says she was turned down by a number of other lenders at this time 
and feels this was due to the mistake on her credit file. I can understand why Miss R feels so 
concerned but while I cant be certain this entry was the cause in every case. I think its 
reasonable to think that other lenders would also have seen this entry and taken it into 
account when assessing her applications. It was also the case that the impact of this mistake 
could have lasted several months because of the time it would have taken to have the entry 
removed. For that reason, I consider that the impact on Miss R was greater than Vehicle 
Credit had first thought. 
Putting things right
Ive seen that as soon as Vehicle Credit realised there was a problem, it acted promptly to 
try and put matters right. That was reasonable and what Id have expected it to do. 
Nevertheless, its clear that the mistake did adversely affect Miss R and her credit rating. In 
the circumstances I dont consider that the £50 already offered by Vehicle Credit is sufficient 
to reflect the impact of this mistake on Miss R and, t Taking into account the impact on Miss 
R and the time it lasted, I consider £200 would be more appropriate.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Vehicle Credit Limited to pay 
Miss R £200 for her upset and inconvenience caused by its mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman