DRN-3746634
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way in which Vitality Life Limited handled a claim for 
critical illness made by Mr A on their (joint) Essentials Plan which included critical illness 
cover (the plan) and its later decision to decline the claim. Theyre also unhappy that Vitality 
cancelled the plan. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for the plan in April 2020. When applying for the plan they were both 
asked a number of questions  including about their health and medical history. 
In 2019, Mr A had surgery to remove a lump from an area of his body. He was asked 
questions about this when applying for the policy. He then attended a follow up telephone 
consultation with one of Vitalitys nurses, during which he was asked further questions about 
the lump that was removed.
Based on all the information provided by Mr and Mrs A, Vitality accepted their application for 
the plan, and it started towards the end of May 2020. 
Towards the end of 2020, Mr A made a claim on the plan for desmoid fibromatosis. This had 
been diagnosed as a result of a second lump which had been detected in the same area of 
the body where the previous lump had been removed. 
Vitality requested Mr As GP medical history and once received, referred the matter to its 
underwriter in March 2021. 
In June 2021, Vitality notified Mr and Mrs A that it had concerns about the information theyd 
provided about the lump Mr A had surgically removed in 2019 when applying for the plan. 
Vitality asked Mr A to explain why hed answered questions in the way that he had. Having 
not been persuaded by the answers given, Vitality concluded that Mr A had made a 
deliberate or reckless disclosure when applying for the plan. It declined Mr As claim for the 
critical illness benefit and cancelled the plan in its entirety. Vitality also retained all monthly 
premiums Mr and Mrs A had paid for the plan. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs A complained to Vitality. They also explained that they were unhappy 
with the time taken by Vitality to decline the claim.
Vitality accepted that it had taken too long to decline the claim and apologised for the lapse 
in service. It offered Mr and Mrs A £350 in recognition of that. However, Vitality maintained 
its decision that Mr A had made deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his answers to 
certain questions about his medical history. So, it said it had correctly declined the claim for 
the critical illness benefit and cancelled the plan, without return of the monthly premiums Mr 
and Mrs A had paid for it.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy so brought a complaint to our service, which wasnt upheld 
by our investigator. Mr and Mrs A disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to 
consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Vitality) has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Vitality says Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering certain medical questions when taking out the plan. 
Overall, I think Vitality has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr As claim under critical 
illness section of the plan, cancelling the plan and retaining the premiums paid for it. Ill 
explain why. 
Questions asked when applying for the plan
When first applying for the plan, Mr A was a number of questions about his medical history 
including: 
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following:
Any lump, growth or polyp or any mole that has changed in appearance?
Its reflected that Mr A answered yes; he had a cyst in a particular part of his body. Its also 
reflected that Mr A had the cyst examined by a doctor - and it had been diagnosed as 
benign scar tissue.
Mr A was then asked:
Please give details of all treatment received, including relevant dates.
Its reflected that Mr A answered: surgically removed  no further issues.
And in response to the statement: please provide further details of the current status of this 
condition (e.g full recovery, in remission, being monitored) including any further treatment, 
investigations or appointments due along with dates, Mr A answered fully recovered 
surgery with local anaesthetic  July 2019.
Mr A was also asked about his current health:
Are you currently waiting for the results of any tests/investigations or experiencing 
symptoms that you are likely to seek medical advice for? (Examples include but are not limited to: a lump, swelling, firmness of hardening of the skin, breasts or testes, 
mole changes)?
Its reflected Mr A answered no.
A few weeks after the applying for the plan  and before Vitality accepted the application  
Mr A attended a telephone consultation with Vitalitys nurse. The document completed by the 
nurse reflects that Mr A was asked a number of follow up questions about the lump removed 
in 2019 including:
Have you been regularly followed up or reviewed since this was first treated. If yes, 
please give details.
Its reflected that Mr A answered: had a review 3 months after the operation and then were 
[sic] discharged.
Mr A was also asked: 
How is your condition now? i.e. symptoms, mood, outlook, functioning etc
Its reflected that Mr A answered: condition is now completely resolved.
When Vitality reviewed Mr As claim made towards the end of 2020, it concluded that Mr A 
had answered certain questions incorrectly as part of the application process.  Thats 
because Vitality says Mr A had seen his consultant twice in early 2020 (a few months before 
applying for the plan) about pain he was still experiencing in the area of the body where the 
lump had been removed in 2019. And hed also spoken to his GP about it. Having 
considered the medical evidence, Im satisfied that Vitality has fairly and reasonably reached 
that conclusion.
When making this finding Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs A werent provided with a 
copy of the nurses document, recording the questions asked of Mr A and the answers 
provided. And that Vitality says there isnt a recording of the call where the questions were 
asked by the nurse as it was shortly after the start of the pandemic and the call was made 
from the nurses home so wasnt recorded. I accept what Vitality says about that and, on the 
balance of probabilities, I dont think the nurse wouldve recorded Mr As answers incorrectly. 
Further the answers given by Mr A are broadly consistent with the answers provided in the 
initial application and the information given by him when asked by Vitality to explain why hed 
answered questions incorrectly (which Ill go on to later). 
The medical evidence
In January 2020, its reflected that Mr A met with his consultant and that Mr As consultant 
said that hed had a combination of subcutaneous lumpiness and pain particularly on 
stretching in the area where hed had the lump removed many months previously. Its also 
reflected that he had some subcutaneous nodularity consistent with recent surgery. His 
symptoms are related to surgery from last year.
Mr A met with the consultant a month later and its reflected that Mr A was still experiencing 
a lot of discomfort despite mild anti-inflammatories and that Mr A was clearly unhappy I was 
unable to cure his symptoms. Mr A was discharged from the consultants care and told to 
rest and take stronger anti-inflammatories. 
The following day, Mr As GP notes reflect that Mr A had consulted his GP as he had started 
experiencing severe pain from his previous surgery although hed been well until December 2019. Its reflected that he felt fobbed off by the consultant he saw the day 
before and that he had a burning sensation near his scar (where the lump had been 
removed).
At the end of February 2020, Mr As GP notes reflect that Mr A wanted stronger anti-
inflammatories prescribed to him.  
And at the end of April 2020  so after Mr A first applied for the plan and answered questions 
about his medical history but before his telephone consultation with Vitalitys nurse  his GP 
notes reflect that Mr A was still worried. Its stated: lump grown bigger and pain worse. 
Although he could cope with the pain, its reflected that Mr A needed reassurance and a 
video call was rescheduled. 
I havent been provided with any GP notes from May 2020, but Ive seen the GP referrals 
letter to a specialist clinic in September 2020 which says that Mr A was in contact with his 
consultant a few times since the surgery (in 2019) for review as he felt discomfort in the area 
as well as a feeling of an increasing size of lump again. Its reflected that Mr A was 
reviewed, reassured and discharged around February 2020. The referral also says that Mr A 
feels his concerns werent taken seriously and has just been left to deal with it despite him 
finding the lump increasing in size. Thats consistent with the medical evidence from Mr As 
consultant at the end of 2020 reporting on the medical history of the second lump. Its 
reflected that there was swelling in the same area two to three months after the surgery in 
2019 and that Mr A was just told to take painkillers, but the swelling didnt resolve.
Mr As explanation for answering the questions the way that he did
When considering whether Mr A misrepresented the answers provided when taking out the 
plan, in June 2021, Vitality asked Mr A for an explanation for why hed answered the 
questions in the way that he had. Thats what I wouldve reasonably expected it to have 
done in the circumstances and thats in line the ABI Code of Practice on misrepresentation 
and claims dated September 2019 (the ABIs Code of Practice).
Mr A maintained that hed answered questions about his medical history correctly. And that 
hed received assurances from his GP and consultant that the pain he was experiencing in 
early 2020 was due to the surgery and they had no concerns. So, he accepted what theyd 
said as he isnt a medical professional, and hed been discharged from the care of his 
consultant. 
Around the time of applying for the plan and speaking with Vitalitys nurse, he didnt think the 
growth had occurred again after it had been treated and he felt the issue concerning the first 
lump removed in 2019 had been resolved. And from May to September 2020, hed 
experienced no pain or discomfort until a different lump appeared, leading him speak with 
his GP again. 
Having considered Mr A responses, Im satisfied that Vitality has fairly and reasonably 
concluded that Mr A made qualifying misrepresentations under CIDRA as the answers given 
to some of the questions werent correct. And Vitality has provided underwriting guidance 
showing that if Mr A answered the questions correctly, it wouldve deemed him to still be 
under investigation and it wouldnt have offered the plan to Mr and Mrs A at that time. So, 
the answers to the questions mattered to Vitality and were directly relevant to their decision 
to offer Mr A a policy.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs As point that after the 
telephone consultation with Vitalitys nurse, theyd provided medical consent for Vitality to 
contact Mr As GP. And that Mr and Mrs A were then told that the underwriter would be doing so. As such, when they received the insurance schedule from the Vitality, theyd 
assumed that this had been done and Vitality had agreed to offer the plan after reviewing Mr 
As medical records, without any exclusions. 
However, Im satisfied that although Mr and Mrs A were told that Vitality would be contacting 
his GP, that doesnt detract from the disclosures made by Mr A when answering questions 
about his health in the original application and when speaking with Vitalitys nurse. And there 
was no obligation  legal, regulatory, or otherwise  for Vitality to request and consider Mr 
As medical records before offering the plan. I think it was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
answers given by Mr A and assume that theyd been answered correctly and with 
reasonable care. 
Declining the claim and cancelling the policy
Vitality concluded that Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And its more 
recently said to our service that the difference between the medical history it now knows 
about compared with the information disclosed to it during the application process is so 
significant that Mr As misrepresentations couldnt have been carelessly made. 
Ive taken into account section 7 of the ABIs Code of Practice which says that the remedy of 
avoiding a policy from the outset should be confined to the most serious cases of 
misrepresentation and that its for Vitality, as the insurer, who has the burden of establishing 
whether there has been a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
Taking into account Mr As explanations about why he answered questions in the way he 
did, I dont think Mr A has been able to give a credible explanation supported by the facts for 
the misrepresentation having occurred when considered against the medical evidence, 
summarised above. 
Nor do I think there are any credible mitigating circumstances to explain why he answered 
certain questions about his health in the way that he did. Im satisfied that Vitality has fairly 
concluded that Mr As misrepresentations about his medical history and current medical 
health when applying for the policy were deliberately or recklessly made.
Whilst I accept that Mr A had been discharged from the care of consultant by the end of 
February 2020, Im satisfied that the medical evidence shows that a couple of months before 
applying for the policy, he was still experiencing severe pain in the area where the lump had 
been removed and that Mr A was concerned that the lump was growing. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would consider the issue to have been completely resolved as he said at 
the time or that there hadnt been any further issues since the removal of the lump. He was 
still experiencing symptoms based on his medical records.
Despite assurances hed received, given the nature of the medical evidence from shortly 
before and around the time he and Mrs A applied for the plan, I think Vitality has fairly 
concluded on the balance of probabilities that Mr A knew, or must have known, that the 
information given was incorrect or misleading (or  at the very least - acted without any 
reasonable care as to whether the information was correct or misleading). And as the 
questions were asked before agreeing to insure Mr and Mrs A, I think Mr A knew that the 
questions being asked were relevant to Vitality  or didnt take sufficient care about whether 
or not it was relevant to Vitality.
Ive looked at the actions Vitality can take in line with CIDRA. Under the legislation its 
entitled to cancel the policy and retain the premiums. Vitality also doesnt have to pay any 
claims as it can treat the policy as if it never existed. Thats what Vitality has done here, and 
I dont think its acted unfairly and unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint by doing so. 
Delays
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that they had to wait over seven months for Vitality to provide a 
decision about the claim made under the critical illness section of the plan. 
Vitality has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. It accepts that it 
unreasonably delayed assessing Mr As claim under the plan. In particular I can see that the 
medical evidence was provided to its underwriter in March 2021. It took around two months 
for the underwriter to raise concerns about the way in which Mr A had answered certain 
questions when applying for the plan, which is too long in the circumstances. Vitality offered 
Mr and Mrs A £350 for customer service failings, including delay. I can see that this was a 
worrying time for Mr and Mrs A, which wouldve been exacerbated by the delays caused by 
Vitality assessing the claim. But I think £350 compensation fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them both.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman