DRN-1756994
The complaint
Mrs V complains PA (GI) Limited withdrew an offer for a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy after realising it had already previously settled the complaint.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs V complained to PA about a PPI policy that had been attached to her store card 
account.
In October 2018 PA wrote to Mrs V and her representative saying it agreed the policy was 
mis-sold. It offered Mrs V £3,932.23 to settle her complaint. Mrs V accepted the offer and 
received the settlement.
In November 2018 PA received a new complaint about the sale of the PPI from a different 
complaint management company.  In error, PA set this up as a new complaint on its internal 
system.
On 11 October 2019 PA issued a new response to Mrs Vs complaint containing a new offer 
which after interest had been added amounted to £4,112.08. Mrs V returned the acceptance 
form.
On 29 October 2019 Mrs V called PA as she had not yet received her payment despite being 
told it was being processed. She was then told there had been an error and she would not 
receive the £4,112.08 as she had already been compensated for the sale of the PPI. The 
same day PA wrote to Mrs V to offer her £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset 
she had been caused by PAs error.
Unhappy with PAs response Mrs V asked this service to step in. Our adjudicator didnt think 
Mrs V should receive the second offer PA made to her. And the adjudicator thought that 
£100 was fair compensation for the upset shed been caused.
Mrs V disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would be fair for me to direct PA to pay Mrs V the second offer it made. Thats 
because it had already investigated the original complaint and had made Mrs V an offer 
which she accepted and received. So PA had put Mrs V back in the financial position shed 
have been in if the PPI had not been sold. And I dont think it would be fair if PA 
compensated her twice for the mis-sold policy.
It is unfortunate that PA didnt notice that a different representative had brought the same 
complaint and consequently set up a new complaint. And I know Mrs V is upset and has 
asked why PA staff were not adequately trained to spot duplicates.Ive thought about all this and I do appreciate it must have been upsetting for Mrs V to 
discover the new offer was a duplicate of the one she had already received, particularly as 
shed already been told it was being processed. But I see PA has offered Mrs V £100 for the 
upset this caused and I think thats a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I dont direct PA (GI) Limited to pay Mrs V the second offer it made in October 2019.
I think PA (GI)s offer of £100 as compensation for its error is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman