DRN-3355393
The complaint
Mr A complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who sent him several 
faulty devices, following a claim under his gadget insurance.
What happened
Mr A made a claim for a damaged phone, with Assurant. It accepted the claim, but Mr A 
didnt pay the excess until a few months later. At which point, he then sent in his phone to be 
repaired. Assurant couldnt repair the phone so sent Mr A a replacement. Following on from 
this, Assurant then sent a further six replacement phones, as Mr A said that there had been 
various faults. 
On the last claim, Assurant asked Mr A to obtain a diagnostic report from the phone 
manufacturer so that it could see what the issue was with the phone. Mr A said that given 
the issues with the phones, he wasnt going to obtain the report and had lost faith that 
Assurant would replace the device. And he raised a complaint. 
In its final response, Assurant acknowledged that it had replaced a number of phones. It 
accepted and apologised that there had been service issues and offered Mr A £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr A was given his referral rights and 
brought a complaint to our service.
After Mr A had brought his complaint to our service, Assurant contacted him and offered him 
£250 compensation, to resolve his complaint. Mr A declined this, and this offer was 
withdrawn by Assurant.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that out of the six initial phones that were sent as replacements, three were found to 
have no faults or damage. He thought that Assurants request for Mr A to get the phone 
assessed was a reasonable one. And as Mr A refused to do this, he was unable to ask 
Assurant to do anything further. 
He considered the impact on Mr A, as Mr A said that he had suffered stress as a result. Our 
investigator agreed that there would be a level of impact on Mr A, not least as he said that 
he lost data on the phone and precious memories. But our investigator thought that Assurant 
had dealt with his claim within a timely manner and that several of the devices had been 
found without any faults. And that Mr A had since purchased another phone. So, his view 
was that the £100 compensation originally offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Assurant accepted the view, Mr A did not. He said that he wanted an increase in the amount 
of compensation because of the number of devices that he had had an issue with. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issues of this complaint are whether Assurant were fair in coming to the decision it 
did and whether the compensation of £100 offered, was fair.  When considering this 
complaint, I have looked at the timeline, the terms and conditions of the policy and 
information provided by Mr A. 
Mr A had a gadget policy with Assurant. The phone became damaged and he made a claim. 
Having reviewed the timeline of the claim, there was a delay in Mr A paying the excess 
before the phone could be sent in. But, following on from this, I can see that Assurant quickly 
resolved this claim by sending him a replacement phone. 
Mr As policy permitted that if a phone became damaged, a replacement phone would be 
provided and that the phone would be a re-manufactured model: Where we replace the 
device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand new) device. Mr A returned six 
phones that he said were all faulty. Each of the phones that were replaced by Assurant were 
all re-manufactured phones. So, I am satisfied that Assurant complied with the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Assurant said that because of the number of devices returned, it carried out further tests on 
those phones. And found that three out of the six returned phones had faults. The other 
three phones were found with no faults, which I have considered. But, despite some of the 
replacement phones not having any further faults, Assurant exchanged the phones on each 
occasion. 
I also note that Assurant offered Mr A cash settlements as an alternative, which he didnt 
accept. Consequently, Im satisfied that Assurant met its obligations under the policy, by 
providing the replacement phones. I also think that it had been fair to replace the phones 
even when some were found to have no faults. 
Assurant asked Mr A to get the current phone tested, with the phone manufacturer.  Before a 
further replacement phone or cash settlement was offered. But Mr A was not able to do this. 
I think the request made by Assurant was reasonable, given the number of devices that Mr A 
returned. And I think its fair that any faults that Mr A said he was experiencing with the 
phone, are verified before Assurant offer a replacement or cash settlement. Mr A wasnt 
prepared to accept either offer, so Im unable to ask Assurant to do anything further here. 
But I can consider the impact of Mr A having received some faulty devices. Mr A said that he 
had suffered from stress and lost his employment due to the number of replacement phones. 
He also said that he lost precious memories from data that hadnt transferred. Mr A also 
confirmed that he had since purchased another phone.
Whilst I understand that this event would have been a stressful experience, Mr A hasnt 
provided me with any further evidence to confirm the stress and the effect this had on his 
employment. In addition, I must take into consideration that Assurant handled Mr As claims 
in a timely manner and complied with the terms and conditions of the policy, by replacing the 
faulty phones when required. Mr A has requested a higher amount of compensation, but taking everything into account, 
and the impact this wouldve had on Mr A. Plus the fact that he has now replaced his phone, 
I think that a fair and reasonable level of compensation for the upset caused, would be £100.  
Assurant has paid this amount in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr A, which I 
think is fair. Accordingly, I wont be asking it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited has already paid £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman