DRN-4344374
The complaint
Ms S complains that Zurich Assurance Limited incorrectly calculated the transfer value of her 
pension plan at the date that they received the switch request, rather than the actual date 
that they undertook the transfer. 
Ms S says the value of her plan was higher at the actual date of transfer, so thats the value 
she should be entitled to. Shed now like Zurich to reimburse her for the higher amount that 
she feels is due to her.
What happened
In late 2022, Ms S decided that she wanted to move her existing pension plan with Zurich to 
Vanguard. After contacting Zurich to understand the process, she set up a new plan with 
Vanguard who then submitted an Origo request to Zurich on 30 January 2023. As the Origo 
request was received in the afternoon of that day, Zurich treated the notification date as 31 
January 2023.
As Ms S was paying monthly direct debits into the plan and the most recent payment had 
been made on 1 February 2023, they had to wait for the contribution to clear before they 
were able to start processing the switch request.
On 3 and 10 February 2023, Ms S contacted Zurich for an update on the progress of the 
switch, and on each of the dates, she asked Zurich for the current value of her pension. On 
10 February 2023, she was advised that her pension was valued at £175,078 and 
understood from her conversation with Zurich, that this would be the value sent to Vanguard. 
On 14 February 2023, Zurich sent Ms Ss pension funds to Vanguard  however, when 
Zurich confirmed that they had transferred £170,935, Ms S complained to Zurich. In 
summary, she said the difference between that figure and the amount she was advised was 
the value of her pension on 10 February 2023, amounted to around £4,000, and as such, 
she wanted Zurich to cover that lost value.
After reviewing Ms Ss complaint, Zurich concluded that they were satisfied theyd 
transferred the correct amount of money to Vanguard. They also said, in summary, that they 
should have been clearer in their telephone calls with her on 3 and 10 February 2023 that 
they use the value of the pension on the date that the request is received as the value thats 
switched. As the request was received on 31 January 2023, that was the value that was sent 
to Vanguard. To apologise for the confusion caused, Zurich offered Ms S £105 for the 
trouble.
Ms S was unhappy with Zurichs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she said that she didnt think Zurich were being reasonable by using the plans 
value on 31 January 2023 and as such, asked this service to make them pay her the £4,000 
that she felt theyd unfairly held on to.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that whilst 
Zurich could have been clearer during their telephone discussion on 10 February 2023, the 
correct amount appeared to have been sent to Vanguard. He felt that the £105 that Zurich 
had offered Ms S for the upset caused was fair.
Ms S, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that the 
£105 didnt fully reflect her distress, confusion, anger and the fact that Zurich had taken over 
her pension fund for their own gain whilst leaving her to believe that she was still benefiting 
from the funds financial growth. Ms S said that, as she wasnt advised of the cut off point, 
Zurich hasnt acted in her best interests. Ms S went on to say that she feels compensation of 
at least £1,000 would better reflect the upset that shes suffered.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Ms S had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to. Ms S then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can well imagine Ms Ss concern when she saw a lower transfer value than she was 
anticipating, arrive in her new pension with Vanguard. But, having carefully considered Ms 
Ss concerns, whilst Im upholding her complaint because I think Zurich could have been 
clearer during their interactions with her, Im not going to ask them to take any further 
action beyond what theyve already offered to do. Whilst I appreciate that Ms S will likely be 
disappointed by my decision, Ill explain why below.
As Ive already explained, Zurich received the Origo switch request from Vanguard in the 
afternoon of 30 January 2023, so that meant the valuation day for the transfer was 31 
January 2023. The policy provisions that Ms S wouldve been provided with at the time she 
set her plan up with Zurich (previously Allied Dunbar), do say that when a transfer request 
is received, its the value at that particular point thats used. This is covered in section 10 of 
those terms and conditions. Typically, but not always, transfer monies are then sent 10 
days later, however in Ms Ss case, because Zurich had collected a direct debit the 
following day, they had to wait for that premium to clear to allow them to return it to Ms S 
before they could complete the switch to Vanguard. The monies (£170,935) from Ms Ss 
Zurich plan were sent to Vanguard on 14 February 2023 and as this was the value of her 
plan on 31 January 2023, the correct amount was transferred. So, Ive not seen any 
evidence that Ms S has suffered financially as a consequence of Zurich.
However, during the switch process, Ms S contacted Zurich on a number of occasions to 
understand the progress of her application. During those discussions, Zurich provided Ms S 
with a value of her plan, which subsequently transpired that it was higher than the value on 
31 January 2023 and therefore the amount transferred. So, I can see why Ms S was 
confused when she saw the lesser amount credited to her new Vanguard plan on 14 
February 2023. Importantly though, Zurich have already conceded that they should have 
only informed Ms S of the switch value from 31 January 2023 to avoid any confusion. But, 
despite being the wrong information, Ms S hasnt suffered a financial loss as a 
consequence of that information. Whilst Ms S says her decision making has been 
determined by the information provided by Zurich from those calls, I dont agree, and thats 
because she wasnt in a position to make any investment decisions with her monies until 
the funds were transferred to Vanguard. And in any event, Zurich transferred the correct amount to her, but even had they provided the correct information to her, the switch 
wouldve proceeded in the same manner and as such, she would be in no different of a 
position to the one that she found herself in.
Ive considered very carefully what Ms S has told this service about the impact that Zurichs 
actions have had on her. In her complaint, she told this service that she wanted Zurich to 
refund the £4,000 difference between what was transferred and what she was told her plan 
was worth. Ms S has also told this service she feels that compensation of £1,000 would 
better reflect the upset that Zurich have caused her. I dont doubt that she would have found 
the experience of receiving less than she thought that she would do both disappointing and 
upsetting, however the role of this service isnt to punish businesses when mistakes occur, 
thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to ensure that businesses put 
consumers back into the position that they wouldve been in, had it not been for their 
mistake. Whilst Zurich could have been clearer that the plan value that they provided to Ms 
S over the telephone wasnt the transfer amount that would be sent to Vanguard, I dont 
believe that Zurich should pay her the amount that they told her the plan was worth on 3 and 
10 February 2023, because that wasnt the value that was ever going to be switched to 
Vanguard.
Zurich have already acknowledged that they could have better managed Ms Ss 
expectations during their telephone discussions with her, and theyve offered her £105 to say 
sorry. When we ask a business to pay a consumer compensation for the trouble that theyve 
caused, whilst all cases are considered on their own individual merits, we do look to be 
consistent across similar cases. And, thinking about Zurichs offer of £105, I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for failing to better manage Ms Ss expectations. So, whilst 
I appreciate that Ms S will likely be disappointed by my decision, I wont be asking them to 
increase that offer.
My final decision
Zurich Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Ms S £105 to settle the 
complaint and I think that this offer is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Zurich Assurance Limited should pay Ms S £105, if theyve not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2024.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman