DRN-3341961
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM), did not 
execute her limit order to purchase shares when the limit price was reached. 
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party but, for ease, I will refer to everything 
as being said by Mrs S.
What happened
On 5 February 2021, Mrs S placed an online order to purchase 1,500 shares in a company 
at a limit price of 1210p. She says the limit price was reached but HLAM did not trade. 
HLAM said that, although the limit price was observed, on each occasion it wasnt observed 
for enough time for Mrs Ss order to be filled. It said it had acted in line with its agreed terms 
and that its limit minding service was not a guaranteed service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
HLAM hadnt acted unfairly.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said, in summary, that HLAM should have executed her order 
because:
There werent any abnormal market conditions.
There was enough time  the price was reached for around four to five minutes.
There was enough volume for the order to be executed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons.
I think HLAM make it reasonably clear that it cannot guarantee a limit order will be executed. 
Its terms say:
Hargreaves Lansdown cannot guarantee that your stop loss or limit order will be executed, 
even if the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you have set. If you are not 
comfortable with this, you should not use this service.
And it goes on to explain that there may be a number of factors which prevent a limit order 
being executed, such as market conditions.
HLAM does not enter limit orders to the exchange order book. Rather, it attempts to trade as 
soon as practicable once the limit price is reached and the order is triggered. I find Mrs S 
agreed to this when she agreed to HLAMs terms and conditions which say:
By choosing to use our online limit order service you agree that Hargreaves Lansdown will 
not disclose or publish details of your unexecuted limit orders.
Im satisfied that HLAM acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions - HLAM told us 
the limit price set by C was reached; but its electronic limit order service didnt trigger, so no 
attempt was made to trade.
But Ive gone on to think about whether HLAM treated Mrs S fairly in the circumstances, 
particularly taking into account that the limit price requested by Mrs S was reached.
When Mrs S placed her limit order, she would have been directed to read the risks involved 
in placing a limit order. Quite near the top of the summary of risks, it said:
After the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you set we will attempt to place 
your deal in the market. However, share prices can change in seconds and if a share price 
has moved by the time we attempt to place your deal it may not be executed at the price you 
have set, or at all.
And I find this is what happened here. Whilst it would appear that the price was reached for 
around four minutes, the price was in fact only met for short periods of time during those 
minutes and not for the whole period. The price was met on seven occasions on average for 
around eight seconds. This reasonably reduced the chances of the limit order being 
triggered, particularly at a time when dealing volumes in all stocks was high.
Overall, I think it was made reasonably clear that the placing of a limit order does not 
guarantee a deal at the specified price and that there may be reasons why an order cant be 
executed even if the specified price is reached. Whilst Mrs Ss requested price was reached, 
it wasnt for long enough for her order to be triggered and passed to the market. In the 
circumstances, I dont find HLAM treated Mrs S unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman