DRN-3248689
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by JAN Investment Marketing (JAN) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes it has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W had deferred DB scheme benefits. His DB scheme would have provided a pension of 
£4,183.92 payable from age 65. This comprised the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) 
built up under a former scheme. I understand there was no option to take tax-free cash in the 
DB scheme. 
Mr W approached JAN in December 2014 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. It 
isnt entirely clear what took place at the time of sale. But what both sides agree on, and so 
Ive regarded as established, is that:
Mr W had tried to access his DB pension transfer value himself but had been 
informed by the scheme that he needed advice before he could do this. 
Mr W had already spoken to a different financial adviser who had advised that a 
transfer was suitable. However, he thought the fees that this adviser would charge for 
the transfer were too high. 
JAN didnt complete a fact find or produce any analysis of the pension transfer. It 
didnt produce a suitability letter. 
Mr W provided details to JAN about his DB scheme deferred benefits. 
JAN processed Mr Ws application to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal 
pension scheme. 
JAN received £1,000 from the transfer value, and an additional 1% for ongoing 
services. Mr W has cancelled the ongoing payments.
In May 2015 Mr W transferred his DB pension benefits into a personal pension. The transfer 
realised £63,702.28. Mr W initially withdrew the maximum 25% of the fund as a tax-free 
lump sum. The remainder of the transfer value was invested into one of the personal 
pension providers equity based funds.  
 
I understand that Mr W went on to withdraw all of the money in the personal pension over 
time. I also understand there has been no further contact between Mr W and JAN after the 
transfer.
Mr W complained in 2020 to JAN about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said this was 
because:
Jan received a fee for this transaction which may have been a conflict of interest. 
Jan didnt complete a sufficiently detailed fact find or look into Mr Ws circumstances 
in any detail. 
Jan didnt find any other ways that Mr W could potentially repay his debts. 
JAN gave Mr W advice, in particular it advised him where he should invest the 
transfer value. 
But this advice wasnt clear, and understandable, about the pros and cons of the 
transfer. 
If JAN had done all of the above it would have seen that the transfer was unsuitable 
for Mr W and he wouldnt have gone ahead with it.  
JAN didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said:
Mr W didnt disclose any material information to JAN and so it couldnt advise him. 
Mr W informed JAN that he was leaving the country and simply wanted JAN to 
process his pension transfer. 
Consequently, the sale was processed on an execution only basis, that is without 
advice from JAN. 
Mr W has now withdrawn all of his funds which shows he wanted to release the 
money from his DB scheme. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said that it wasnt clear whether or not JAN advised Mr W. And Jan hadnt properly 
demonstrated that the sale was made on an execution only basis. But she did think that 
Mr W was particularly motivated to access his pension. Especially as he now says that he 
was in a vulnerable financial position. And so, he was unlikely to have accepted any advice 
not to transfer. 
Mr W disagreed, he said that Jan did advise him. And as he has lost money due to the 
pension transfer then he should be compensated. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Jurisdiction of this complaint 
An ombudsman has already issued a decision saying that she thought this complaint was 
within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. This is because the complaint 
was made within six years of the event complained about, the transfer of benefits. She said 
this six-years started at the time of transfer. She didnt think any contact that may have taken 
place before this was the event complained about. 
The ombudsman did say in their decision that jurisdiction can be kept under review until a 
final decision is issued. So, Ive thought about this issue. But no party has raised any 
material new issues about the jurisdiction of the complaint. And I dont disagree with what 
the earlier ombudsman said about it. I think this complaint was brought in time as it was 
brought within six years of the event complained about. Ive gone on to consider the merits 
of it.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
And at the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect 
of insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook which required 
JAN to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client. In addition, COBS required JAN to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. So, JANs recommendation had to be clear and Mr W had to have understood 
the consequences of going against the recommendation. 
Overall, JANs role was to discern what Mr W wants and needs were and why Mr W wanted 
to transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr W wanted. It had to act in 
his best interests.
Did Jan advise Mr W
Mr W says that Jan advised him to transfer his DB scheme benefits. And he has said that 
there was a detailed discussion about how the funds should be invested over three 
meetings. But it seems established that no written advice was provided. And there is only 
both sides present recollections of the conversations that took place, rather than any record 
from the time of sale. 
I agree that JAN should have taken better steps to document what went on here. If it didnt 
do this, or it no longer has a record of the how it documented the sale at the time, I dont 
think it can adequately demonstrate that it didnt advise Mr W. 
Mr Ws representative has said that JAN gave investment advice and said he should use an 
offshore fund for the transfer proceeds. But again, this isnt conclusive. JAN would have 
needed to gather some information about Mr Ws circumstances to administer the transfer 
and this could have included talking about where Mr W wanted to invest the transfer. Im not 
persuaded that these conversations show that JAN advised on the transfer or where the 
pension would be invested.   
So, having looked at everything, I cant be certain that advice was, or wasnt, given. There 
isnt enough evidence from the time of sale, or later, that clearly demonstrates this.  
Was Mr W an execution only customer
JAN says that it only acted on Mr Ws instructions and he was an execution only customer. 
This is similar situation to whether Mr W was given advice or not that I considered above. 
Again, I think JAN should have taken better steps to document what went on here. But there 
is too little from the time of sale, or in either party to the complaints subsequent evidence, for 
me to say whether Mr W was an execution only customer or not.
Would Mr W have proceeded with the transfer in any event. 
As Ive said, I think there were shortcomings in JANs process and how it treated Mr W as an 
insistent client or an execution only customer. And, I agree JAN could have provided 
warnings or advice against transferring.
But I think that, even if JAN had done everything it shouldve done, Mr W would still have 
gone ahead with the transfer of his DB pension and made the subsequent investments. Ill 
explain why. It was Mr W who contacted JAN with a view to releasing money from his pension. Its been 
established that Mr W did want to try and access his pension. And hed already received 
advice about this before he contacted JAN. 
So, it seems reasonable to say that Mr W had already decided to access his pension before 
he met JAN. And it seems their relationship was based on JAN going ahead with a DB 
pension transfer, but at a lower cost than Mr W was able to secure elsewhere. 
Mr W has said that he was looking to take the TFC available but cant now properly recall for 
what purpose. But Mr Ws representative has said he was, at the time, in a vulnerable 
financial position. He had some debts and no savings or investments. His income was 
described as fluctuating and low and at the time he met with JAN he may have been on 
benefits. Mr W has said that he didnt own a property at the time he met with JAN.
All parties have said that Mr W had some existing debts. And there is some indication that 
Mr W was also planning to move abroad where he had been living for part of the year 
already. I dont know if the TFC was used to repay debt, or how much was used to fund any 
move or expenditure on his living arrangements. 
But, I think that the evidence does demonstrate that Mr W did, more likely than not, have a 
genuine need to access his pension fund in the near future. He likely had problems with 
money and was considering a significant change to his life. From what he, and his 
representative, has said he didnt have any other means to meet these needs. It seems likely 
Mr Ws DB scheme wouldnt provide any cash at retirement, or earlier. This is because the 
DB pension would only provide the GMP it had secured. 
So, I think the transfer of his pension meant that he would be able to support himself in the 
shorter term. So, I think he would have gone ahead with the transfer in order to
access the funds  even if against JANs advice.
Overall, even though I think JANs insistent customer or execution only process could have 
been clearer, I dont think that would have changed the outcome in Mr Ws particular case. I 
say that because on balance, I think even if JAN had made their process fairer, Mr W would 
have pursued the transfer and insisted on JAN transferring his pension.
Lastly, I dont think the commission JAN received meant it had a conflict of interest. At the 
very least JAN was providing a service to Mr W and its reasonable that it received some 
form of remuneration for this when the transfer went ahead. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman