DRN-4379096
The complaint
C, a limited company, has complained that The Right Mortgage Limited (the broker), mis-
sold a policy to it.
What happened
C took a private medical insurance policy through its broker. This was an advised sale. 
C says it told the broker it needed a policy which would save time for its members as speed 
of accessing healthcare was a priority.
When a member tried to make a claim, the underwriter asked them to provide a form 
completed by their GP. C said it didnt realise that members would need to get authorisation 
from their GP every time they needed treatment. So C complained to the broker and asked 
for the policy to be cancelled immediately. 
The broker emailed the underwriter about cancellation and confirmed to C that this had been 
done but it didnt uphold the complaint. 
C disagreed and in summary, said it was aware that the policy wouldnt cover pre-existing 
conditions. But it wasnt aware its members would need to have a form completed by their 
GP each time they requested treatment. 
C said the policy was mis-sold and referred its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the policy was unsuitable and so it 
didnt think it had been mis-sold.
C disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The speed of access to treatment was a priority and had it known members would 
need to obtain GP authorisation each time treatment was needed, it never would 
have bought the policy
The broker agreed to refund two months worth of premiums but hasnt done this 
The policy wasnt cancelled immediately and the underwriter continued to collect 
premiums despite Cs clear instruction that it no longer wanted to continue with the 
policy
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
During an advised sale, the seller should ensure the policy is suitable for the needs 
of the customer.
Ive seen the fact find and recommendations which capture the conversation which 
took place between C and the broker. Cs priorities were listed in the fact find and the 
recommendation included information about the policy terms and the type of 
underwriting which applied to the policy. 
C said it wasnt aware of the requirement to obtain information from the GP each time 
a member made a claim. But I am satisfied that this information was provided by the 
broker in the policy terms, with the recommendation letter. 
C said speed of access had been discussed as a priority and it wasnt aware of the 
terms or what they said. Even though speed of access was a priority, this wouldnt be 
something the underwriter could control if there was a concern about the GPs 
timescales. I havent seen any evidence to show that the involvement of a GP would 
be an issue. And the terms were brought to Cs attention by the broker. The broker 
cannot be held responsible if C did not review the full terms, including the type of 
underwriting which applied.
I think the information in the recommendation by the broker clearly sets out the type 
of underwriting that applied. Members of C may have had a different type of 
underwriting previously, but it was clear that this was a moratorium policy. What this 
meant was sufficiently explained in the information provided to C.
C says the underwriter didnt refund premiums immediately and the broker agreed to 
a two-month refund. I havent seen any evidence that the broker agreed to refund two 
months premiums and as it wasnt responsible for collection of premiums, I wouldnt 
expect it to provide a refund. This is something C would need to take up with the 
underwriter directly. 
As I dont think the broker mis-sold the policy, I wont be asking it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman