DRN-2774005
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros declining a claim for 
storm damage on her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B said thered been a storm in the area. Itd caused the render to fall off the front 
elevation of the property and the living room window ledge had also been damaged. Mrs B 
said Ocaso had sent an adjustor to look at the damage. But the adjustor said the render was 
cracked and water had got behind it  so the damage wasnt caused by the storm. 
Ocaso had offered £1000 to cover the damage to the window sill. But Mrs B said without the 
storm the render would still be intact and itd cost her over £2000 to put right. So shed like 
Ocaso to cover the full cost as storm damage is included in her policy.
Ocaso said its adjustor had noted fractures in the render around the window. They felt water 
had got behind the render and itd blown (de-bonded). Although the winds had caused the 
render to fall, the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. So it wasnt an insured peril.
Ocaso said Mrs B was covered for accidental damage. So itd offered £1000 to cover the 
cost of the window sill damaged by the falling render. But it wouldnt cover the cost of 
replacing the render.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Ocasos response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see thered been storm conditions at the time 
the damage occurred. But there hadnt been any damage noted on the render of 
neighbouring properties. So that suggested a storm wouldnt normally cause the sort of 
damage described. And there were fractures in the render which suggested moisture had 
got behind and caused it to de-bond from the front of the property. 
Our investigator explained this meant the storm wasnt the direct cause of the damage. Itd 
merely highlighted that the render wasnt properly bonded anymore. He felt the adjustor 
would be in the best position to give a professional opinion on the cause of the damage. And 
it was reasonable for Ocaso to rely on his report. So he thought Ocaso had acted within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the render should be covered by the policy. Without the storm 
the render would still be intact. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this has been for Mrs B and her family. During a period of 
stormy weather a large piece of rendering fell from the front of their house and damaged a 
window sill below. But the insurer has declined the claim for storm damage and its cost over 
£2000 to repair the render.
The first thing I look at in this type of complaint is whether or not there was a storm at the 
relevant time. This is important because if there was no storm there cant have been any 
damage caused by a storm. I can see the weather report for the time of damage confirms 
stormy conditions. And Ocaso hasnt disputed this.
The second question I look at if Im satisfied theres been a storm is whether the damage to 
Mrs Bs property is consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause. 
A large piece of render was dislodged during the storm. But the adjustors report noted 
neighbouring houses with similar rendering didnt seem to have suffered any damage. And 
Id expect rendering to be able to adhere to a property during all but the most severe 
weather.
The third question  and often the most contentious  is whether the damage was caused by 
this particular storm. Insurers often appoint adjustors experienced in this type of work to look 
at the damage, and thats what Ocaso did. I think thats a fair thing to do  and I think its 
reasonable for Ocaso to rely on their report when deciding whether or not to meet the claim.
The inspection report says the adjustor inspected the damage and noted fractures in the 
render running down from the corners of the windows and to the side elevation. It seemed 
moisture had gotten behind the render and caused it to loosen its bond to the wall.  The 
report said the most likely cause was frost-related. The loosening hadnt been caused by the 
storm event. 
I appreciate Mrs B says there didnt seem to be any problem with the render before the 
storm took place. Shes provided photographs which she believes shows there werent any 
cracks in the render a few months before the storm. 
Ocasos adjuster has looked at the photos and believes cracks are still visible. And I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Ocaso to rely on its surveyors opinion to decline Mrs Bs claim. 
The inspection report says the render was becoming detached from the wall before the 
stormy weather. And although the render actually came off during the high winds, the storm 
wasnt the actual cause of the damage  it already existed and the storm had simply 
highlighted that the render was already coming loose. 
I dont think Mrs B has thrown sufficient doubt on these conclusions to make me think that 
Ocaso should change its position. In my opinion Ocaso has shown its more likely than not 
that there were existing problems with the render and that the storm wasnt the main cause 
of the damage.
Ocaso declined the claim for replacing the render because it couldnt find evidence of 
damage consistent with an insured peril. But I can see its offered £1000 for the damage to 
the window sill under the accidental damage section of the home insurance policy. And I 
think thats a reasonable response in the circumstances.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive seen I 
think Ocaso has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs home 
insurance policy in declining the claim for storm damage. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman