DRN-2691665
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S had a Barclaycard since 2013. In November 2019, Barclaycard increased his limit from 
£1000 to £1500. 
Mr S complained that Barclaycard shouldnt have increased his limit. He had been over his 
limit a lot and was borrowing up to the limit. He was only making the minimum payments. He 
was struggling with stress and mental health issues. Lending him more money made his 
situation worse. Barclaycard couldnt have done a credit check on him  if they had theyd 
have seen he was borrowing from other lenders and couldnt afford to borrow more money.
Barclaycard said they hadnt lent to Mr S irresponsibly. Theyd carried out various checks to 
make sure he could afford the increase. There was no evidence to suggest Mr S was 
struggling when they increased his limit. He couldve asked that the limit be reduced.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said there wasnt evidence to say that 
Barclaycard had been irresponsible. The increase was a fairly modest one. Shed seen 
Barclaycards credit checks and couldnt see that there was anything that might have caused 
them to ask more questions.  Shed looked at Mr Ss credit file and there werent any missed 
payments with other lenders. In the two years before the increase, Mr S had gone over his 
Barclaycard limit once. And he usually made more than the minimum monthly payments.  Mr 
S hadnt advised Barclaycard of any mental health problems.
Mr S asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that Barclaycard shouldnt have increased his limit. If theyd done proper credit 
checks theyd have seen he was struggling. He now finds himself in a lot of debt which he 
cant afford, and this is causing him stress and anxiety. 
When considering Mr S complaint - all lenders have an obligation to lend money 
responsibly. We have to check whether Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial 
Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) 
section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, 
as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
So  I have looked at what happened. And  based on what Ive seen, I cant say that 
Barclaycard acted irresponsibly. Ive looked at Mr Ss credit card statements. These show  
hed been a customer for a long time  since 2013. And in the months leading up to the 
increase in November 2019, he usually paid off a lot more than the minimum amount. In 
January 2019  Mr S paid £954; in May 2019, he paid £880; in July 2019, he paid £947.10; 
and he paid £272 in September 2019. The minimum payments needed were between £20 
and £30 per month  so Mr S paid well over that in most months. After the increase was 
accepted  I can see that in October 2019 and November 2019  Mr S only paid the 
minimum amount, and he then went back to paying more than needed. Mr S told us that he 
took out a loan in order to make the large payment in July 2019  but I cant say that this 
shouldve led to Barclaycard declining to increase his limit.
Ive seen the affordability analysis that Barclaycard did at the time  and it shows that Mr S 
was an acceptable credit risk. This included data that they took from credit reference 
agencies. And  looking at the CRA data at the time, while Mr S had other credit agreements 
with other lenders, all were paid up to date. Mr S has said to us that he cant see a specific 
search on his credit file by Barclaycard at the time of the limit increase  so they couldnt 
have checked his file. But Barclaycard told us that that wouldnt do this for a limit increase  
for which they continually share data with CRAs and take a flow of data for CRAs  so Mr S 
wouldnt see a credit search stamp on his credit reports. 
When Barclaycard offered Mr S the increase  he couldve contacted them to opt out - but 
he didnt. In fact, he accepted the offer by SMS text.
Mr S says he was struggling with stress and mental health issues at the time. He took a 
period off work between July 2019 and December 2019 - But Barclaycard told us Mr S didnt 
advise them of this  and theres no mention of this in Mr Ss notes with Barclaycard. So  in 
all fairness, I cant expect Barclaycard to have taken account of this.
So, from everything Ive seen  theres no evidence that Barclaycard lent to Mr S 
irresponsibly. And so  while he will be disappointed by my decision, Im not going to ask 
them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman