DRN-2267069
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell him that an international transfer that he 
made was pending, which meant he withdrew money from his account that resulted in 
exchange rate charges.
What happened
Mr P made an international transfer for about £10,000 on 23 October 2019 at about 
15.30pm. He says he checked his account the following day and couldnt see the transaction 
and so at about 09.00am made a second transaction for about £9,600. Mr P then saw that 
the first transaction had gone through and so he phoned HSBC to cancel the second 
transaction but says HSBC told him it couldnt see any details about a second transaction. 
He says he knew he made the second transaction and so withdrew money from his account 
to prevent the second transaction going through but was charged about £312 as a result of 
what took place which he would like refunded.
HSBC said it made clear when Mr P made the first transaction that the money may not leave 
his account straight away and says it booked the foreign currency for the second transaction. 
It says Mr P prevented the second transaction proceeding and he was liable for the 
exchange rate difference in line with the terms and conditions of the transaction.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and two views were issued by the investigator. In summary 
the investigator thought HSBC ought to have known what was happening when Mr P called 
it and referred him to the correct department. The investigator thought that even if Mr P had 
been given the correct information, that the transaction was being processed, then there 
would have been an exchange rate loss either at the time or at a later stage if the money 
was refunded to Mr P by the recipient of the money. The investigator initially recommended 
HSBC pay £75 compensation and HSBC accepted it made a mistake and has agreed to pay 
£100 compensation.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says he ought to be given HSBCs calculations about the 
loss and the exchange rates it used. He says if he had been given the correct information 
then he could have made an informed decision about the best way to proceed and the 
transaction ought to be recorded as pending on his account. Mr P would like the exchange 
rate loss refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC ought to pay Mr P compensation, 
but I dont think it ought to pay for the exchange rate loss for the reasons I will explain.
Im satisfied that HSBC made clear when Mr P made the first transaction that it wouldnt be 
processed immediately or be shown to have left Mr Ps account. I think it likely that any 
international transactions are subject to different checks and can often take some time to 
complete. I appreciate Mr P says he thinks that the transaction should have been shown on 
his account by the following day. But I think the problems here were caused by Mr P making 
the second transaction and that he ought to have checked with HSBC the status of the first 
transaction before making the second one.
I accept that HSBC ought to have been able to tell Mr P what the correct position was when 
he called it on 24 October 2019 or referred him to the correct department. I think Mr P made 
clear that he had made a second transaction and I appreciate his concerns about duplicating 
the transactions. I also accept he relied on the information HSBC gave him that there wasnt 
a second transaction pending and withdrew money from his account.
The key question is what Mr P could have done differently if HSBC had given him the correct 
information, that the second transaction was being processed. I think in those circumstances 
Mr P would have had two choices to either allow the second transaction to proceed or to 
cancel it. I also think that if Mr P decided to allow the transaction to proceed then there may 
have been a risk of not getting his money back dependant on his relationship with the 
recipient, but he would have been subject to exchange rate differences in any event which 
may have been greater than the £312 he paid. Mr P hasnt provided any evidence about the 
possible costs or calculated what the cost would have been if he had decided to take that 
option.
Im satisfied that if Mr P decided to ask HSBC to cancel the second transaction then he 
would have been subject to the same cost of £312. 
I find that HSBC ought to have provided Mr P with those options and allowed him to make 
his own mind up about how he wished to proceed. So, I think HSBC should pay 
compensation and I agree with the investigator that its offer of £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. And for the reasons I have explained I cant fairly order HSBC pay for any 
exchange rate difference as I find Mr P would have been liable for such a difference 
regardless of what he did. I dont think it appropriate to ask HSBC to explain the exchange 
rates it used to buy and sell the currency and think it likely Mr P agreed to using HSBCs 
rates when he authorised the transactions.  
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr P £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order HSBC UK Bank PLC to pay 
Mr P £100 compensation. Mr Ps acceptance of this decision would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman