DRN-1258242
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about how Gladstone Brookes (GB) dealt with a potential claim for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) on a mortgage with Lender B.
What happened
On 3 May 2019 Mr B sent GB details about a potential mis-sold PPI claim he wanted to 
make against Lender B. This claim had already been considered by both Lender B and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, but Mr B wasnt happy with the outcome. He thought that GB 
may be able to help. Mr B spoke to GB on 20 May, and GB told him they couldnt help him.
Mr B has complained that:
1. GB hadnt contacted him about the paperwork he sent them before he called them.
2. He read out a letter on the call and was told at the end that the advisor hadnt dealt 
with anything like this before.
3. GB told him they couldnt help him  if theyd have told him this at the start of the call 
he wouldnt have continued with the conversation.
4. He was subjected to a verbal interrogation of seven questions about his financial 
background.
5. The call was incompetently handled, with several breaks involving supervisor input.
6. The advisor and supervisor both lacked specialist expertise.
7. The advisor was patronisingly persistent.
8. He was told that hed receive a call from the complaints department within 48 hours, 
but this didnt happen.
9. GBs complaints procedure isnt fit for purpose, and the manager who responded 
wasnt qualified to say that GB had acted fairly. 
Our investigator explained that the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman Service) couldnt look at how GB handled Mr Bs complaint. This is because 
complaint handling isnt an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So 
complaint points 8 and 9 werent considered.
The investigator found that GB had provided a reasonable service. She found that the 
paperwork Mr B sent by Royal Mail Signed For delivery hadnt been delivered, so GB never 
received this. She felt that GB had handled the call reasonably, taking details of any other 
potential claims they may be able to assist Mr B with, and theyd told him early on that they 
couldnt deal with anything before 1988  Mr Bs claim against Lender B dated back to 1982.
She also felt GB had tried to assist Mr B with his claim and, where necessary, the advisor 
had put Mr B on hold to get answers to any questions he wasnt immediately able to answer. 
Because of this, she didnt think GB needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He believes that GB had received his paperwork 
before he called them on 20 May, and he would like them to return this to him. He also says that GB failed to provide him with a letter confirming why they couldnt take on his claim 
against Lender B, as promised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking firstly at the letter and 25 enclosures that Mr B sent to GB on 3 May 2019, Ive seen 
that Mr B has provided the Royal Mail Track and Trace reference for this. Ive checked this 
reference on the Royal Mail website, and it shows the letter was posted on 3 May 2019. But 
there are no details showing receipt of the letter - so this shows the letter wasnt delivered. 
But GBs 12 June letter says with regard to your letters to our office dated 3.5.2019 and 
28.05.2019.  This would indicate that GB had received the 3 May letter. However, Mr Bs 28 
May letter to GB refers to his 3 May letter, and this letter includes an enclosure. Because the 
evidence from the Royal Mail website shows the 3 May letter wasnt delivered, I think its 
more likely than not that the 3 May letter GB refer to in their 12 June letter would have been 
a copy enclosed in Mr Bs letter of 28 June, not the original letter with the 25 enclosures.
Because of this, I cant say that GB did anything wrong by not calling Mr B about the 3 May 
letter before he called them on the 20 May  I cant expect them to act on something they 
didnt receive. And because they didnt receive the original letter, they dont have the 25 
enclosures to return to Mr B. Mr B would need to raise the issue of the missing letter directly 
with Royal Mail.
Ive also listened to the call between Mr B and GB that took place on 20 May. Mr B initially 
spoke to advisor A about the letter hed sent in on 3 May. She confirmed that it hadnt been 
received and, after checking the Royal Mail Track and Trace reference, told Mr B that it 
looked as it the letter was still at the Post Office where he posted it. She then transferred Mr 
B to GBs new sales team who would be able to set up his claim and send him the 
paperwork he needed to sign.
Mr B then spoke to advisor C and asked to set up a claim. He explained that hed already 
made a claim against Lender B (which had been accepted twice, not paid and then rejected), 
and that the claim had also been considered and rejected by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Mr B then read out the 3 May letter hed sent to GB, so advisor C would know what 
his claim was about. After Mr B had finished reading out the letter, advisor C told Mr B that 
GB could deal with claims from 1988 to June 2014. 
Advisor C also explained that GB could look at claims from all lenders and would need to 
ask Mr B seven questions to establish what could be done. Mr B was then asked the seven 
questions, which covered his financial history. During this questioning process advisor C 
confirmed that Mr Bs situation (with the claim against Lender B being accepted twice, but 
not paid out, and then rejected) was unusual and not something the advisor had come 
across before.
After the seven-question process was complete, Mr B confirmed that he took out his PPI 
policy with lender B in 1982  before the period of time GB had said they were able to look 
into. Advisor C then told Mr B that GB couldnt consider Mr Bs claim against Lender B, but 
they could still consider any potential claims against the credit cards identified during the 
seven-question process. Mr B initially agreed to this, but he later changed his mind.
Mr B asked GB to confirm in writing that they couldnt consider the claim against Lender B 
because the PPI was taken out in 1982. After checking with his supervisor, advisor C said he would do this. Mr B then asked for the name of GBs Chief Executive and, after referring to 
his supervisor again, advisor C said he couldnt confirm this for data protection purposes. At 
this point Mr B complained about the service hed received from GB.
Its clear to me from this call that Mr B was only really interested in his claim against Lender 
B, and annoyed that the letter hed sent to GB on 3 May hadnt been received. He felt he 
needed to read a copy of this letter to advisor C, so advisor C would know exactly what he 
was complaining about. Advisor C told Mr B early in the call that GB couldnt deal with claims 
for PPI policies sold before 1982, but I dont think Mr B heard this. This is why GB went 
ahead with their seven-question process. While its unfortunate that Mr B didnt hear advisor 
Cs explanation about time frames for claims, I cant say GB did anything by telling Mr B this.
I also dont think that advisor C was patronising when he spoke to Mr B. I feel he remained 
professional throughout the call, referred to his supervisor when he was unable to 
immediately answer Mr Bs questions, and apologised when he couldnt help. So I dont think 
advisor C did anything wrong.
Mr B asked for an explanation as to why GB couldnt help him. Ive seen that GBs letter of 
12 June 2019 explains why they are unable to deal with his claim against Lender B  
because both Lender B and the Financial Ombudsman Service have already considered the 
matter, Mr Bs only option is to pursue the matter through the courts and GB wouldnt be 
able to represent him; he would need to seek independent legal advice.
In his letter of 28 June 2019 to GB, Mr B says I accept the belated rationale and explanation 
regarding the status and merits of my P.P.I. claim. So I cant agree that GB didnt provide 
Mr B with what they said they would.
Ive also noted that advisor A told Mr B that he was being transferred to the new sales team 
in South Africa. But when Mr B spoke to advisor C, he was told that he hadnt been 
transferred to South Africa but was still talking to someone in GBs Warrington office. I dont 
know if advisor C was in Warrington or South Africa, and GB shouldve been clear about 
this. But I dont think it made any difference  Mr B was still able to speak to someone about 
his claim, and I havent seen that his ex-directory landline telephone number has been 
shared with someone it shouldnt have been as a result.
 My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Gladstone Brookes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman