DRN-2838315
The complaint
Mrs T, on behalf of G, complains that AXA were wrong to turn down Gs claim for legal costs.
All references to AXA include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In August 2016 G took out a commercial legal expenses insurance policy with AXA, which it 
continued to renew annually until July 2019. 
In September 2019 Mrs T made a claim on Gs policy for cover to defend proceedings 
brought by the Environment Agency against her as a Director of Gs subsidiary, who was 
also covered by the policy.
AXA declined the claim. They said the policy contained an exclusion in relation to 
agreements between G (including its subsidiaries) and another company. AXA thought the 
proceedings were caused by this agreement. In addition, AXA said that G was not covered 
for any loss or investigation caused by something which Mrs T was aware of before the start 
of the insurance. In particular they said the loss was caused by an investigation which 
started in March 2017 and that Mrs T was aware of this before insurance was in place- and 
didnt notify them, as required by the policy.
Our investigator considered Gs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said that 
he thought the exclusion in relation to agreements between G and another company was 
applicable in this case because the action taken by the Environment Agency originated from 
a site operated by Gs subsidiary and one of the excluded companies. Because of that he 
didnt consider the other exclusion relied upon by AXA- namely that the cause of the loss 
was something Mrs T was aware of before insurance was in place and didnt declare this to 
AXA.
Mr F, another representative of G, doesnt agree with our investigator. He says that whilst 
the action taken by the Environment Agency did initially relate to a period of time when the 
agreement between Gs subsidiary and the other company was in place, this was later 
disregarded in the proceedings. In addition, the charges brought were later dropped but legal 
expenses were incurred, for which G wishes to claim. He later added that the investigation 
which led to the claim started before the agreement between Gs subsidiary and the other 
party were in place and that the charges brought against G encompassed the period before 
and after that agreement was running. As such, he says the matters being claimed for didnt 
relate to the exclusion applied by AXA. Because of this the matter has been referred to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy which contains an endorsement. The endorsement 
specifically excludes cover for any claim or loss, as defined in the policy, or investigation 
caused (by) the operating agreement entered into with two named companies by G, 
including two of its named subsidiaries. 
So the matter I need to decide is whether the action the Environment Agency brought was 
caused by the operating agreement entered into by Gs subsidiary in this case with one of 
the companies named in the endorsement. Having reviewed a letter from the Environment 
Agency to Mrs T dated March 2017, Im satisfied that it was. That letter was a request for a 
formal interview, which resulted in prosecution proceedings being brought against Mrs T. 
Those proceedings surrounded the operating arrangements with one of the named 
companies in the endorsement. The allegation within the letter was that an offence had been 
committed because Gs subsidiary had contravened permit conditions between August 2015 
and July 2016. The agreement between Gs subsidiary and the other company to operate 
the site started in March 2016.  Because of this, I dont think theres any doubt that the 
matter for which Mrs T eventually sought cover was clearly excluded under the policy.
I appreciate what Mr F has said about the charges brought being disregarded by the 
Environment Agency at a later stage but there can be no doubt that the claim for which Mrs 
T sought cover straddled the period in which the agreement that was the subject of the 
exclusion contained in the policy. Because the allegations made were in relation to 
contraventions of permits during that time, I think it can be said that the proceedings were in 
part caused by the excluded operating agreement. The fact that the charges might have 
changed in nature or abandoned altogether dont in my view make a difference. Thats 
because Im deciding whether it was fair for AXA to turn down the claim when they did and 
on the basis of the information given to them at the time. In addition, I imagine that the costs 
G is claiming for, are at least in part, attributable to the period that applies to the excluded 
agreement.
I note that Mr F has said he charges which led to the claim started before the agreement 
which was the subject of the exclusion was in place and also related to a period after that. 
But I dont think that makes a difference. I accept that some of those charges pre date the 
policy altogether which makes me think they wouldnt have in any event been covered by the 
insurance- but I dont need to decide that issue to reach an outcome on this complaint. The 
fact remains that the charges originally brought, for which cover was sought did straddle the 
period of the agreement which was the subject of the exclusion by at least four months. So 
the claim for loss was caused in part by ongoing allegations of contraventions during that 
period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Gs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T or Mr F on 
behalf of G to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman