DRN-1764938
 
The complaint
Miss T says Gain credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss T says that Lending Stream gave her multiple loans on top of current loans 
where the balance was outstanding. She doesnt agree that Lending Stream carried out 
sufficient checks as it would have seen she wasnt creditworthy and was already in debt with 
other credit providers. 
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Miss T between 
June and August 2018. Miss Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 14/06/2018 Outstanding Instalment £100.00
2 05/08/2018 Outstanding Instalment £200.00
3 14/08/2018 Outstanding Instalment £200.00
4 18/08/2018 Outstanding Instalment £150.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ts complaint and thought that loan four shouldnt have 
been given as by that time loans one to three were still outstanding and Miss T was having 
problems managing her money. 
Lending Stream agreed and offered to pay redress for the interest and charges incurred on 
loan four. But Miss T still had an outstanding balance on her other loans so the redress 
would be used to offset that debt. It also offered to set up a repayment plan with Miss T.
Miss T wasnt satisfied with the offer. She didnt think the offer was sufficient or that Lending 
Stream had done enough. Miss T also said she couldnt afford to make any repayments in 
her current financial circumstances. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
In response to the offer made by Lending Stream, further to the adjudicators assessment, 
Miss T wasnt satisfied. She explained that she wasnt in the position to plan for repayments 
as her financial circumstances are dire. She also told us of the impact this has had on her 
personally. 
Miss T doesnt think that any of the lending should have been given from the outset. Our 
adjudicator concluded that Lending Stream wasnt irresponsible when it lent Miss T loans 
one to three. Bearing this in mind, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence 
and information provided in this context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint. After 
doing so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As explained above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But we would still expect some checks to be carried and Ive reviewed the information gathered by Lending Stream prior to agreeing to 
lend to Miss T before each loan was agreed. 
Lending Stream has shown us that for each loan it asked Miss T about her monthly income 
and expenditure. It confirmed with Miss T that she was employed and during the period the 
loans were taken her monthly income was between £1,600 and £1,706. Details of Miss Ts 
monthly outgoings show that this was between £648 and £811 so on the face of it Miss T 
had a monthly disposable income of between £1,032 and £839. 
At loan one the monthly repayment was £35.04, this increased to £95.08 when loan two was 
taken and £132.11 with loan three. So, looking at the affordability on a pounds and pence 
basis, the lending doesnt look unfair. 
But as Ive said above, a lender has to make sure any borrowing is sustainable in that the 
consumer can make the repayments without any difficulty. Lending Stream has also given us 
records of its review of Miss Ts credit file including her credit rating score. It also recorded, if 
applicable, the number of defaults, delinquent accounts, number of active accounts (two in 
the case of Miss T) and number of months since any most recent default the credit agency 
was aware of. For Miss T, all defaults/delinquent accounts were recorded as zero. 
So, from the information Lending Stream had available to it, I cant see there was anything 
that would have highlighted that Miss T may potentially have problems making her 
repayments. Loans one to three were all taken at the beginning of Miss Ts relationship with 
Lending Stream, so at that point I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have relied upon 
the information Miss T had given or the information recorded in her credit file. It would only 
be later in a borrowing relationship that a business is obliged to gather further information or 
verify  by alternative means  the information it already has. 
So, like the adjudicator I dont think Lending Stream was irresponsible to have given Miss T 
loans one to three so Im not upholding that part of her complaint. 
But when Miss T applied for loan four, loans one to three were still running. And all of the 
borrowing had been taken in a short time period  within two months. So, I think the fact that 
three loans were overlapping and there was a quick uptake in borrowing should have 
suggested to Lending Stream that it should reconsider whether allowing further borrowing at 
loan four was fair to Miss T. 
When our adjudicator put this to Lending Stream it agreed and offered compensation the 
same way the adjudicator recommended it should do. This is a repayment of all the interest 
and charges incurred by Miss T on loan four. It also offered a repayment plan. But Miss T 
doesnt think Lending Stream has done enough. 
I know this is extremely disappointing for Miss T. She has explained to us she is in financial 
difficulty. But Lending Stream has done what we would expect it to do by making a fair offer 
of redress for loan four and also offering to work together to come to a mutually agreeable 
repayment plan with Miss T in order to repay what is owed. So, I dont think Lending Stream 
needs to do any more. 
In conclusion, Ive decided that Lending Stream shouldnt have given loan four to Miss T and 
that the offer it has made is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ts complaint. Gain Credit LLC has 
fairly offered to put things right and I wont be making any further award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision by 12 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman