DRN-2213503
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way QIC EUROPE LIMITED (QEL) handled a claim on his home
insurance policy.
What happened
On 24 June 2019, Mr M made a claim on his home insurance policy which is provided by
QEL, following a leak under his kitchen sink. The leak caused damage in Mr Ms kitchen and
to his lounge carpet (QEL sent out a company to inspect the damage to the carpet and 
provide a quote for a replacement on 3 July). Mr M managed to isolate the leak.
QEL wasnt able to appoint its usual surveyor due to their limited availability, so it instructed
a different one on 1 July 2019. The surveyor contacted Mr M the next day and arranged to 
inspect the damage on 8 July 2019. Following inspection, the surveyor offered Mr M a cash 
settlement as an alternative to QEL completing the work. He also completed a schedule of 
works for QEL to consider. Mr M didnt accept the cash settlement, as he didnt think the 
schedule of works included all of the repairs needed.
QEL dried out Mr Ms property between 11 and 17 July 2019.
QEL called Mr M on 12 July 2019, as hed indicated he was finding it uncomfortable living in 
moist conditions. Its notes suggest it told Mr M to turn off one drier, but the other had to stay 
on. It also suggested Mr M opened windows and doors. Mr M told QEL hed like to eat out
because of the conditions in his kitchen, so QEL arranged to pay him and his daughter a
food allowance for a few days while the drying work was ongoing.
QEL arranged a further inspection on 25 July 2019 - once the drying work was complete -
following which it sent an updated schedule of works to Mr M for agreement on 
8 August 2019.
Mr M confirmed on 13 August 2019 that he wanted QELs contractors to do the work.
Later in August, Mr M asked QELs contractors to amend the schedule of works, as he
wanted to configure his kitchen in a different way.
In the meantime, Mr M complained to QEL, as he wasnt happy with its handling of the claim.
It responded to the complaint on 21 August 2019. Amongst other things it said:
there was a short delay in the surveyor inspecting the property because the original
one wasnt available;
the surveyor who attended in July only completed an initial inspection; knowing that a 
further inspection would be necessary (once the kitchen was dry) to fully scope the
work needed;
it installed drying equipment within a reasonable timeframe  and three days after the 
surveyors visit;
it had to wait for drying equipment to be removed before a joint site visit could be
completed between the surveyor and its contractors - this took place on 25 July and
the final scope of works  which Mr M later agreed - was completed on 8 August.
Mr M then wanted work to be included in areas of the kitchen that werent damaged
from the leak;
It felt Mr Ms further contact with the contractors (about reconfiguring the kitchen)
caused a delay whilst his comments were being considered;
it was satisfied that once the work was done, Mr Ms kitchen would be restored to the
position it was in before;
it awarded a food allowance for a few days as a goodwill gesture, so Mr M could eat
out  even though that wasnt included in the terms of his policy.
QEL said it wasnt willing to offer further compensation and told Mr M he could complain
to our service if he wasnt happy with its response.
In October 2019, QEL told Mr M that it wasnt willing to agree to the extra work hed asked 
for. So, Mr M asked QEL to confirm the likely cash settlement figure, which it did in
November.
Mr M complained to us in November 2019. He said he was unhappy with a number of
aspects of QELs claim handling. These included:
delays - when inspecting his home; in drying it out and in dealing with his claim;
QEL failed to offer him alternative accommodation despite knowing he had a
medical condition made worse by heat and moisture;
QEL completed a fraudulent schedule of works and it was only once Mr M
complained that it updated it to include the items previously left off;
QEL refused to complete a few minor changes to the kitchen specification to
make it more suitable for Mr Ms disability (declared to QEL). Mr M says he
offered to pay QEL for these alterations, but it refused;
he was unhappy its contractor didnt respond to him, so hes lost faith in their
ability to do the work;
QEL was reluctant to give Mr M a cash settlement figure (so he could check he
could get the work done for a comparable rate) without him first dismissing an
alternative option for its contractors to complete the work.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He felt that, overall, QEL dealt
with Mr Ms claim in a reasonable way and within an appropriate timeframe. Mr M didnt 
agree with the investigators assessment and asked for his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I sent Mr M and QEL my provisional decision on 27 July 2020. Ive included the relevant 
extracts below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a number of concerns about the way QEL managed his claim and about its
unwillingness to complete changes to the configuration of his kitchen as hed hoped. And, he
says he now finds himself in the position - over a year after making his claim - with a kitchen
thats still in a state of disrepair. I appreciate this must have been a difficult time for Mr M.
Whilst I dont intend to refer to everything Mr M said, I have considered all of his comments
when reaching my decision.
My role here is to decide whether QEL appears to have acted reasonably in relation to
Mr Ms claim. In doing so, Ill also take account of the terms and conditions of Mr Ms homeinsurance policy.
Its also important to say here that theres likely to be some element of delay when
considering an insurance claim. And thats particularly so in situations such as this, as these
types of claim can be complex for an insurer to deal with. But even taking those things into
account, unless I receive other evidence, Im likely to say overall, QEL hasnt acted
reasonably. So, Im intending to partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M made his claim in June when he came downstairs to find a leak that happened
overnight. I note QELs normal surveyor wasnt available, so it had to instruct a different one.
That happened on 1 July and the surveyor visited Mr Ms home on 8 July. I appreciate Mr M
managed to isolate the leak in the meantime. But I do think two weeks between the claim
being made and the surveyor visiting does seem like a long time. I say that in particular
because it was unlikely QEL was going to begin the drying out process until the surveyor
had inspected the damage. So, whilst I appreciate the difficulties surrounding surveyor
availability, I think QEL should have tried to source an alternative that could inspect the
damage sooner. Ive set out later on what I think QEL needs to do to recognise the
inconvenience caused by this delay.
QEL installed dryers between 11 and 17 July. Mr M says his living conditions were difficult
during that time, not least because he has a health condition thats made worse by heat and
moist conditions. Its not clear from the evidence exactly what Mr M told QEL about his
health conditions, but I can see that both his policy schedule and QELs claim notes mention
he has a disability. I can also see that when the drying equipment was installed, Mr M told
QEL he was struggling with the hot and moist conditions. And QELs response appears to
have been to suggest Mr M should turn off one of the dryers and open the windows and
doors. When Mr M suggested hed prefer to eat out, QEL offered him and his daughter a
food allowance for a few days.
I appreciate QEL seems to have taken some steps to address the difficulties Mr M was
facing. But Im not currently satisfied its help went far enough. I say that because Mr Ms
home insurance policy included providing alternative accommodation where his home is
unfit to live in. It seems to me that deeming a home unfit will depend on the individual
circumstances. So, whilst its apparent Mr Ms kitchen was still functioning, its clear he found
the conditions were making his health worse. Mr M says QEL refused to consider alternative
accommodation for him despite him asking for it and it knowing about his health condition.
Theres little evidence to show exactly what QEL considered, apart from a note in its files
saying alternative accommodation wasnt applicable and that Mr M should open more
windows and doors.
Where the evidence is incomplete - as appears to be the case here - I need to consider
whats most likely to have happened. I havent received call recordings between QEL and 
Mr M, so I dont know exactly what they discussed and the extent to which Mr M explained 
his health condition and the impact of the conditions at home. But on balance, and unless I
receive other evidence, I think its likely Mr M did explain his health conditions to QEL. I say
that because his insurance policy schedule references the fact that he has a disability, so it
does seem Mr M has been fairly open with QEL about his health. And given that, I think hes
likely to have told QEL he had a condition made worse by moist and hot conditions, if that 
condition was worsening. So, it follows I dont think QEL treated Mr M fairly
and reasonably by not offering him alternative accommodation while the kitchen was being
dried out. And Mr M says he had to stay with his parents because of that. To put things right
now, Im minded to direct QEL to pay Mr M compensation to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused by not offering him alternative accommodation while his kitchen dried
out. Ive set out below what I think QEL needs to do now.Once drying out was complete, QELs surveyor carried out a more detailed inspection. Mr M
has some concerns about QELs handling of the inspections, not least because the first
schedule of works didnt include a number of required repairs. And Mr M thinks this
demonstrates QEL behaved fraudulently. Ive thought about QELs response, which is that
the first inspection wasnt as detailed, and it was only once the drying out was complete that
the more detailed schedule of works could be done. I think QELs response seems
reasonable. But that said, I found it unusual for QEL to offer Mr M a cash settlement after a
less detailed inspection, knowing it was likely to change. Whilst Ive seen no evidence QEL
behaved fraudulently, I do appreciate Mr Ms concern to some extent. In any event, Mr M
didnt accept the cash settlement.
QEL sent Mr M a detailed schedule of works to consider in early August. Im satisfied that
timeframe was reasonable given that the drying out process wasnt complete until mid - July.
And once a schedule of works is complete, its usually reviewed by the contractor and
insurer. I can see Mr M appears to have accepted the schedule of works as reflective of the
repair work needed, as he confirmed he wanted QELs contractor to do the work. But I can
also see Mr M then asked QEL if it could amend the schedule of works, so he could
reconfigure his kitchen in a way that was more supportive of his disability. Mr M appears to
think QEL was unreasonable in not agreeing to his amendments - particularly because he
said hed meet the extra cost. And QEL thinks that by asking for these amendments - which
then had to be reviewed  Mr M caused a delay in the claim being settled. Ive thought about
all of this.
I can appreciate why Mr M might have thought it sensible to have additional work completed
whilst QEL was repairing the damage caused by the leak. Not least to limit the disruption
caused. But I dont agree with Mr M that QEL acted unreasonably by not allowing the
reconfiguration of his kitchen - irrespective of whether he intended to meet the extra cost or
not. I say that because when dealing with an insurance claim, the insurers responsibility is
to return the property to as close a condition as it was before. So, I dont think it would be fair
to expect the insurer to complete work that wasnt directly as a result of the water leak or in
line with its own contractors schedule of works. Particularly as according to QEL, it involved
additional plumbing amongst other things. And whilst I appreciate Mr M says he was willing
to meet the extra cost, I think there would have been other considerations, such as who
guarantees the work if it wasnt commissioned by the insurer. Theres also the possibility that
the additional work Mr M wanted to do might have led to further work. And I dont think it
would be fair to expect QEL to meet the cost of that either.
According to Mr Ms policy, if QEL decides it can offer rebuilding works, repairs or
replacements, it will choose its preferred contractor, or pay the amount it would have cost to
use its contractor, as a cash settlement. If it cant have the work carried out by its chosen
contractor, it will pay fair and reasonable costs for the customer to have the work done by
their chosen supplier.
Im satisfied QEL appears to have acted reasonably and within the terms of the policy by
offering to do the identified work or make a cash settlement equivalent to what it would have
cost QEL. And it again told Mr M a cash settlement was possible when it refused to carry out
the additional work hed asked for. Mr M told us hed wanted to use QELs contractor, as he
was concerned if he arranged his own contractor, he might be liable for additional costs if
further work was identified that hadnt been before. I dont think Mr Ms point is
unreasonable.
But Mr M later indicated he no longer wanted to use QELs contractor because it hadnt
responded to him when he asked for amendments to the specifications. I should point out
that the contractor is an agent for the insurer, so its the insurer who needs to authorise and
respond to any changes to the schedule of works. Ive seen no evidence the contractorwasnt suitably qualified to complete the work. So, for all these reasons, I think it was fair and
reasonable for QEL to say it would ask its contractor to complete the work according to the
agreed schedule of works or pay an equivalent cash sum.
However, it seems to me Mr M and QEL appear to have reached something of a deadlock
and Mr M says hes lost faith in QELs contractors ability to do the work needed. I also need
to keep in mind that over a year after making his claim, Mr M is still living with a kitchen
thats in a state of disrepair. So, unless I receive other comments, Im minded to say the
most sensible option now is for QEL to make Mr M a cash settlement to enable him to have
the repair work done. I appreciate this wasnt initially Mr Ms preference and Ive outlined
earlier why he initially wanted QEL to do the work. But Im also mindful that Mr Ms views
changed, so to bring closure to Mr M and QEL - and to allow Mr M to improve the condition
of his kitchen - this does seem the fairest solution now.
Im inclined to agree with QEL that Mr M asking for the amended works is likely to have
added some delay to the claim being settled. I say that because the schedule of works was
agreed in August, so it seems likely repair work would have got underway shortly after that.
But that said, I do think it took QEL far too long to tell Mr M it wasnt willing to do the extra
work he wanted, so I think that caused an unnecessary delay. I appreciate QEL had to
review Mr Ms proposals and discuss them with its contractor, but I dont think around 7
weeks to do that seems reasonable. And on top of that, when Mr M said he couldnt make a
decision about whether to use its contractor until he knew what the cash settlement figure
was, it then took about another month to confirm that figure. And I dont think that was
reasonable either given QEL is likely to have had an idea about the likely cash settlement
figure around August when the updated schedule of works was completed and agreed.
So, Im minded to direct QEL to pay Mr M compensation for the inconvenience the
unnecessary delays caused.
Unless I receive other evidence, my provisional finding is that I intend to partially uphold this
complaint. Ive set out below the steps Im intending to ask QEL to take to put things right.
Settle Mr Ms claim by paying him a cash sum equivalent to what it would have cost
QEL to do the work;
Pay Mr M compensation of £550 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he
suffered due to:
o the delay in the surveyor carrying out an inspection following the leak;
o QELs failure to offer Mr M alternative accommodation when his home
was being dried out and his health worsened as a result of his living
conditions;
o the delay in telling Mr M his suggested amendments to the statement of
works wouldnt be agreed;
o the further delay of about a month before confirming the cash settlement
figure to Mr M in November 2019.
Responses to my provisional decision
QEL said its still happy to make a cash settlement to Mr M. But it doesnt agree it should pay 
him compensation, mainly because it thinks any delays related to the claim were outside of 
its control. And it doesnt think alternative accommodation was necessary in Mr Ms case.
QEL has also given me evidence to consider that wasnt previously available to me - including a screen shot from the surveyors booking system. QEL says this shows it offered 
Mr M two earlier surveyor appointments. Its also given me a telephone call recording 
between Mr M and QEL on 12 July 2019, during which Mr M and QEL discussed his health 
condition. And its given me an email dated 28 August 2019 between the claims handler and 
Mr M in which she told him the alterations hed asked for wouldnt be agreed. I asked Mr M 
whether QEL had offered him a surveyors appointment before 8 July 2019. He couldnt 
remember whether that happened. 
Mr M has also made a number of additional points for me to consider. These include 
concerns that the quality of some of the materials included in the schedule of works werent 
equivalent to what Mr M already had in his home. He also suggested insufficient quantities of 
materials had been included (Ive noted hed previously raised a similar query with QELs 
contractors in late August 2019). He also said some work had been left out of the schedule 
of works completely  such as an upgrade to a small downstairs porch area (I can see QEL 
had referenced these things in the updated schedule of works, but had removed the 
associated costs because Mr M had indicated he intended to pay for the work separately). 
Mr M thinks QEL should meet 50% of the cost of this work, not least so the downstairs 
flooring was continuous and matching, particularly as he struggles with changing surfaces 
due to his disability.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive taken account of the additional information Mr M and QEL have given me. I dont 
intend to refer to all of the comments made since I issued my provisional decision. But I will 
address those that are directly relevant to how Ive reached my final decision, which is set 
out below.  
Some of the comments Mr Ms made since I issued my provisional decision relate to whether 
the schedule of works included everything he believed it should have. And hes indicated 
that QEL should have done more, for instance by paying towards matching carpets in other 
parts of the house and upgrading a downstairs porch area. 
This is something that Mr M raised with QEL shortly after making his claim. And QEL 
responded to those points. But Mr M didnt raise those points of complaint with our service. 
His complaint to us primarily focused on QELs handling of his claim in relation to the 
damage to his kitchen and lounge carpet. So, its not something our investigator specifically 
commented on in his assessment. And I dont think it would be appropriate for me to address 
those points in any detail now. Thats because when Mr M asked QEL in August 2019 for it 
to arrange for its contractors to do the work, it was reasonable for QEL to assume Mr M had 
agreed the amended schedule of works to put right the damage from the leak. And once that 
schedule of works was agreed, that was the basis upon which QEL was able to discuss the 
next steps with its contractors or agree an appropriate cash settlement. So, as Mr M 
appeared to agree QELs approach, I dont think it would be fair to now ask QEL to revisit the 
amended schedule of works. 
Turning to QELs comments. Its given me a screenshot from its supplier system, which it 
said shows it tried to arrange two earlier inspections (on 2 and 4 July 2019) both of which it 
said Mr M cancelled. Mr M cant recall if he was offered an appointment before 8 July. Ive 
looked at the screenshot and I dont think it does show QEL offered Mr M an appointment on 
2 July. The first entry for 2 July says I have spoken to the customer and agreed to visit on 
Thursday at 4pm (Thursday being 4 July 2019). So, it seems to me that the earliest 
scheduled appointment was likely to have been for 4 July. Im also not persuaded the screenshot shows Mr M cancelled the scheduled appointment on 4 July. Thats because 
there are two further entries on 2 July within a minute of each other that say Appointment 
cancelled Ive spoken to the customer and agreed to visit on Monday (which was 8 July 
2019) between 10 and 10.30. Appointment scheduled Ive spoken to the customer and 
agreed to visit on Monday between 10 and 10.30. Theyre then followed by entries on 4 July 
that say appointment cancelled, booked for Monday between 10 and 10.30 and 
appointment scheduled, appointment booked for Monday between 10 and 10.30. Im  
satisfied an appointment does at least appear to have been scheduled for 4 July. Ive  
thought about the likelihood of Mr M cancelling the appointment given how keen he was for 
QEL to progress his claim. And I dont think its likely, as I think hed have known that little 
progress could realistically be made until the surveyor had done an inspection. Given the 
evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded it clearly shows Mr M cancelled the appointment. And 
for the reasons Ive outlined and those included in my provisional decision, I still think it took 
too long for a surveyor to inspect Mr Ms property given the damage he reported.
I said in my provisional decision why, on balance, I thought Mr M was likely to have told QEL 
about his health condition, which was made worse by heat and moisture. QEL confirmed that 
Mr M got in touch, by email, on 9 July and mentioned his health conditions. But as the drying 
equipment was installed in Mr Ms kitchen and not his main living area, QEL didnt think it 
was likely to affect Mr Ms health.
Ive listened to the call recording QELs now given me between Mr M and QEL a few days 
later. He told QEL he was on his way to the doctors as he felt wheezy and asked if it would 
consider arranging alternative accommodation for him. The claim handler told Mr M that 
alternative accommodation wasnt necessary in his situation, because his kitchen was 
useable. Mr M explained his breathing difficulties were made worse by damp and mold and 
that he felt he was living in sauna like conditions because the heat was rising to his 
bedroom. QEL said Mr M could turn off one of the driers. Overall though, it didnt feel the 
conditions were harmful to Mr Ms health.
Having considered the additional evidence QELs given me, Im even more persuaded that 
its responses and decision not to offer alternative accommodation werent fair or reasonable. 
I think its fair to conclude that Mr M is likely to know more about his medical conditions than 
QEL does - and particularly about issues that are likely to affect it. So, as QEL doesnt 
appear to have had any medical evidence to say otherwise - and theres no evidence it 
asked for any - I think QEL should have responded more sympathetically to the concerns 
Mr M described by offering him alternative accommodation while his home was being dried 
out. Given QELs failure to do that, I can fully appreciate Mr Ms concerns and why he later 
told us the conditions were unbearable.
Turning now to whether QEL delayed in telling Mr M his kitchen couldnt be reconfigured in 
the way hed hoped. QEL has now given me a copy of an email it sent Mr M on 
28 August 2019 to tell him it wouldnt do the additional work. So, I agree it does show that 
QEL didnt delay in giving Mr M an answer about that. But given that QEL knew by the end 
of August broadly what work needed to be reflected in an equivalent cash settlement, I still 
think it took too long for it to confirm the amount it was willing to pay to settle the claim. 
Thats because regardless of whether it asked a third party for quotes to help it calculate the 
payment  it didnt confirm the amount until November 2019. 
Ive set out in this decision the reasons why I dont think QEL dealt with Mr Ms claim fairly 
and reasonably. And its clear that caused Mr M considerable distress and inconvenience, 
and Mr M believes this made his medical condition worse. So, to put things right, in addition 
to settling Mr Ms claim in the way Ive set out below, QEL needs to pay him £550 
compensation. Im satisfied that amount fairly recognises the impact that QELs handling of 
the claim had on him. And its in line with awards we make in other cases of similar seriousness.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold this 
complaint. QIC Europe Limited now needs to:
Settle Mr Ms claim by paying him a cash sum equivalent to what it would have cost 
QEL to do the work needed as a result of the damage from the escape of water in 
June 2019. 
Pay Mr M compensation of £550 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman