DRN-3768204
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
A law firm responded to our Investigators assessment of the complaint on NTMs behalf. 
But, for ease of reading, I will refer to the law firms comments as being NTMs.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company.
 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. I 
haven't been provided with a copy of the pack sent to Mr J. But I'm aware that those gave 
scheme members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
The DB scheme administrators gave scheme members, including Mr J, until 
11 December 2017  which was later extended to 22 December 2017  to make a choice 
between the PPF and BSPS2. If Mr J didn't make a choice the default position was that his 
pension benefits would move to the PPF. The BSPS trustees had previous provided him with 
a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) which expired in February 2018 so he had until that 
date to decide to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Mr J approached NTM for pension transfer advice and he met with it on 7 December 2017. 
NTM told him it might struggle to provide advice before the time to choose deadline of 
22 December 2017. It said he should carefully consider opting for either the BSPS2 or the 
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
PPF. It completed a fact-find with him and an assessment of his risk appetite. It also 
obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. Amongst other things, NTM recorded that:
Mr J was 33 years old, in good health and married to Mrs J. They had two children 
under 11 with a third on the way.
They owned their own home worth around £103,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£83,000.
They owed £6,000 associated with buying a car.
Mr J earned around £30,000 a year and Mrs J £22,000 a year. 
They were saving between £400 and £500 each month.
Mr J and his employer were contributing towards his employers defined contribution 
(DC) pension scheme.
Mr J believed he would need an income of around £1,500 a month in retirement. 
He had a balanced attitude to risk.
His BSPS pension had a CETV of £89,993.
The BSPS would pay Mr J a pension of £9,101 a year at the normal scheme 
retirement age of 65 if he took a full pension. Alternatively, he could take a tax free 
cash (TFC) lump sum of £40,212 and a reduced income of £6,031 a year.
The growth rates required (the critical yields) to match the benefits from the BSPS in 
an alternative pension arrangement at 65 were 5.76% for a full pension and 5.05% if 
he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The PPF would pay Mr J a full pension of around £7,074 at age 65. If he wanted to 
take TFC he could take a lump sum of £37,763 together with a reduced pension of 
£5,664 a year.
The critical yields to match the PPF benefits at 65 were 4.48% and 4.27% 
respectively. 
If Mr J retired at age 60 the BSPS would pay him a full pension of £6,611. 
Alternatively, he could take a TFC lump sum of £30,261 and a reduced income of 
£4,539 a year.
The critical yields to match the benefits from the BSPS at 60 were 6.22% for a full 
pension and 5.4% if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The PPF would pay Mr J a full pension of £5,728 at age 60. Or he could take TFC of 
£36,671 together with a reduced pension of £4,750 a year.
The critical yields to match the PPF at age 60 were 5.05% and 4.85% respectively.
On 22 December 2017 NTM sent Mr J its suitability report setting out its analysis. It 
recommended Mr J should transfer his DB funds to a named personal pension. Amongst 
other things it said that Mr Js objectives were:
To retire at age 57
To have flexible access to his pension to enable him to take higher levels of income 
earlier and have higher TFC.
To pass on a lump sum to his wife and children in the event of his premature death. 
He wanted to take control of his pension away from his employer and the scheme 
trustees. 
An increase in pension benefits would be a bonus but Mr J didnt expect that to 
happen.
 
The suitability report said that transferring would allow Mr J to meet his objectives. It said 
that by taking an income equivalent to his DB scheme by draw down the funds would last 
beyond his life expectancy. Mr J met with NTM in early January 2018 to discuss its recommendations. NTM said it had 
hoped to engage with Mr J before the deadline for opting for BSPS2 had passed. Mr J said 
he hadn't opted for BSPS2 as there was no certainty it would go ahead and it wasnt his best 
option for early retirement and TFC. On the same day NTM received an illustration from the 
named personal pension provider, which showed what a personal pension could be worth to 
Mr J at his preferred retirement age of 57. Mr J accepted NTMs recommendation to transfer. 
He paid an initial fee to it of £2,500 for its advice and arranging the transfer. He also agreed 
to pay it fees for ongoing investment advice of 0.65% of the value of his fund. Additionally, 
the personal pension provider would charge him 0.7% in total of the fund value for providing 
its services. 
In 2021 Mr J complained that he believed NTM had misadvised him. He said NTM had told 
him the BSPS2 wasnt financially viable in the long term; that he felt rushed and pressured 
and that he had to pay fees for transferring. NTM didnt uphold his complaint. In a detailed 
response it said it hadn't commented on the funding of the BSPS2, hadn't put any pressure 
on Mr J and that he'd agreed to the fees prior to NTM giving its advice. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didn't 
think NTM had dealt with Mr J fairly. In brief he felt that NTMs advice hadn't been suitable 
for Mr J. Our Investigator thought that NTM should have advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2. 
The investigator recommended that NTM should compensate Mr J for any loss he suffered 
because of its unsuitable advice. He also said it should pay Mr J £300 to address his 
distress and inconvenience arising from the unsuitable advice.
NTM didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. In brief it said Mr J 
hadn't complained about the suitability of its advice. It added that by the time it produced its 
suitability report the deadline for Mr J to opt into the BSPS2 had passed so his only option, 
other than transferring, was to allow his funds to move to the PPF. It also said that 
transferring had enabled Mr J to meet his objectives.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
After my initial file review, I noted that BSPS2 wasnt an option for Mr J by the time NTM sent 
him its suitability report. So I asked a colleague to explain to NTM and Mr J that if I did 
uphold the complaint, then I would award redress in comparison with Mr J taking benefits 
from the PPF rather than the BSPS2. Mr J replied. He said NTM had initially advised him to 
transfer on 27 November 2017. He added it had given him its suitability report on 
8 December 2017, which was before the BSPS2 deadline date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to this complaint NTM has made a number of detailed points. But, in this 
decision, I dont intend to address each and every matter raised. Instead I will focus on the 
issues I see as being at the heart of Mr Js complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave. However, my 
recommendation for redress will be different.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in 
Mr Js best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
The essence of Mr Js complaint 
In response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint, NTM said Mr J hadn't 
complained about the suitability of its advice. While I agree that Mr J didnt explicitly refer to 
suitability when he complained, he did say he believed NTM had misadvised him. That is 
he complained that its advice was not appropriate for his situation. Put another way he was 
concerned its advice was unsuitable. It follows that I'm satisfied that its reasonable to 
examine the suitability of NTMs advice when considering Mr Js complaint. 
Financial viability 
The regulator required NTM to obtain a TVAS showing how much Mr Js pension fund would 
need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the 
critical yield). NTMs TVAS showed two such comparisons, the first was with Mr Js benefits 
from the BSPS and the second with Mr Js benefits if he allowed his pension to move to the 
PPF. 
In recent correspondence Mr J has said that NTM initially gave him advice orally on 
27 November 2017. But theres no evidence beyond Mr Js comments to support that 
statement. All the evidence on file is that Mr J first met with NTM on 7 December 2017. That 
is the day he completed and signed the fact find document, risk and pension transfer attitude 
questionnaires, and is also the date he signed NTMs letter of engagement to say that he 
agreed to pay its fees. And I don't think NTM would give Mr J advice before hed agreed to 
pay its fees. So, I'm satisfied the advice process began on 7 December 2017 and not 
27 November 2017 as Mr J says. At that time he had until 22 December 2017 to tell the BSPS trustees whether he wanted to 
opt for the BSPS2. He still had until February 2018 to decide if he wanted to transfer out of 
the DB environment altogether. NTM recorded in its meeting note of 7 December 2017 that it 
told Mr J it couldn't guarantee it would provide its advice before the 22 December deadline 
for opting into the BSPS2 expired. And, as things transpired, NTM didnt send Mr J its 
suitability report until that day, 22 December 2017. 
I'm aware the suitability report is actually dated 8 December 2017, the day after Mr J met 
with NTM. But NTM said the delay between drafting the report and issuing it was because it 
had to run the report past its compliance team. 
It might help if I explain that giving DB pension transfer advice is a heavily regulated 
process. So its usual practice for a suitability report to require checking. Accordingly, firms 
like NTM usually use compliance teams or individuals to check suitability reports before 
theyre issued to try to prevent them from breaching regulations. NTM said it wasnt in a 
position to issue the report until 22 December 2017. That was only 15 days after Mr J first 
approached NTM and, given the complexity of the matter, was a perfectly reasonable time-
frame for producing such a report and putting it through compliance checking. 
Also when NTM met with Mr J in January 2018 NTMs noted that he told it he hadn't opted 
for the BSPS2. He said that was because there was no certainty it would go ahead and he 
didnt think it was his best option for early retirement and to maximise TFC. As this was a 
one-time only process, Mr J couldnt, at a later date, have changed his mind and opted for 
the BSPS2. That meant, as NTM has clearly documented in its note at the time, that Mr J 
was only left with two options:
Allowing his pension to default to the PPF.
Transferring to an alternative arrangement.
As such the only comparison within NTMs TVAS of any real value was looking at the 
benefits of transfer to a personal pension against those provided by the PPF. So thats what 
I've focused on below.
NTM gave Mr J advice after the regulator issued instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is 
a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. We find it a useful tool to 
establish whether an investment is likely to match or exceed the required growth rates to 
make a DB transfer financially viable. Prior to October 2017 this Service published similar 
rates on our website. I acknowledge that NTM was under no obligation to refer to discount 
rates when giving advice. But it was free to do so. And under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator 
required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those 
payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. I think the discount 
rates provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. So those would, in my view, be a reasonable 
assumption by which to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a personal pension with 
those payable under a DB scheme.
Mr J was 33 years old at the time of the advice and he told NTM that his preferred retirement 
age was 57. However, NTM didnt provide any figures for Mr J taking retirement at age 57. 
For reasons it hasn't explained it instead gave critical yields and cashflow models based on 
Mr J retiring at age 60. Those yields and models are likely to paint a more favourable picture 
to Mr J of taking early retirement at 60 then they would at age 57. Thats because the funds 
would have three years longer to grow and also meant Mr J wouldn't need to draw an income from them between ages 57 to 60. If NTM had given figures at age 57 then the 
critical yields would likely have been higher and so require a better return on the investment 
in order to be matched. But as NTM didn't provide those figures I dont know for certain what 
those would have been. So I've focused on the figures at age 60 below.
The critical yields required to match Mr Js PPF benefits at age 60 was 5.05% if he took a full 
pension and 4.85% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. If he retired at age 65, the critical 
yields reduced to 4.48% if he took a full pension and 4.27% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension.
The relevant discount rates closest to when NTM gave its advice, which I can refer to was 
published by this Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.6% a year for 26 
full years to retirement at age 60 or 4.7% for 31 full years to retirement at age 65. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, which 
consider investments on a moderate risk level similar to Mr Js balanced attitude to risk, and 
also the term to retirement. In this instance the relevant discount rate is below the critical 
yield at age 60, which indicate that Mr J was likely to be worse off by transferring and retiring 
at age 60. The gap would most likely have been more if Mr J retired at age 57. The critical 
yields at age 65 are more favourable. Those would indicate a potential for Mr J to be 
marginally better off by transferring, particularly if he took TFC. 
But there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his 
DB scheme  once it had transferred to the PPF  only to achieve a level of benefits outside 
the scheme that was broadly comparable to what he would receive from remaining in it. 
Thats because, in order for the potential to improve slightly on the PPF benefits, he would 
need to put his pension funds at risk. But here, given the discount rates were broadly 
equivalent to the critical yields, then the scope for gains was small. And, if there was an 
extended period of poor performance or his investments suffered losses, that could result in 
him being worse off in retirement. 
Further, by transferring out of the DB scheme Mr J would have to pay the fees and charges 
that are required in order to invest in a personal pension. And those would reduce any gains 
the funds made. Those are not charges he would have had to pay if his pension moved to 
the PPF. 
NTM said the critical yield is of limited relevance because its based on the growth required 
to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the benefits 
provided by the DB scheme. NTM said Mr J didnt want an annuity, so the critical yields dont 
provide a comparison with the benefits Mr J was looking to secure based on his objectives. 
But the regulator required NTM to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to 
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis 
based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here. Thats particularly 
the case as I dont think Mr J could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want 
to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least 
another 23 full years. So, its entirely possible he would want at least some guaranteed 
income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the PPF). But by 
transferring out Mr J lost all the guarantees that the PPF would have given to him.
NTM also said that we needed to consider the hurdle rate. The hurdle rate is another 
measure of predicting future investment returns. But I don't find it an appropriate comparator. 
Thats because the hurdle rate is a particularly blunt tool when comparing benefits from an alternative investment arrangement against a DB scheme (or PPF). Thats because hurdle 
rates don't factor in spouses or dependents benefits, the effects of charges and dont allow 
for the guaranteed and escalating income from a DB scheme. So, they will usually be lower 
than critical yields and the regulator hasn't ever required advising firms to calculate them. 
Consequently, I don't find hurdle rates to be an appropriate comparator when considering 
what a scheme member would be giving up by transferring. 
NTM also suggested that the critical yields aren't appropriate as they factor in NTMs 
ongoing charge for advice of 0.65% of the fund value each year. It said that was an optional 
service and is not something offered by the PPF. However, while NTMs ongoing advice 
service might have been optional, its suitability report said it was essential for Mr J to keep 
his circumstances under review, in order to ensure his investments met his needs. So it 
clearly sold that ongoing service as something Mr J must do. 
Further, I find NTMs comment that a critical yield wasnt relevant because the PPF didnt 
offer an ongoing review service somewhat puzzling. As NTM is well aware the reason the 
PPF (or any other DB scheme) doesn't offer an ongoing review service is because no such 
service is needed. In a DB scheme environment the risk is borne entirely by the scheme 
sponsor and not by the individual member. So the member has no need or requirement for 
any ongoing advice as investment decisions are all usually taken by the employer and/or 
scheme trustees. Nor do DB scheme members pay any other ongoing fees for the 
administration of the scheme. And the reason the critical yield might factor in such charges is 
because this is something that consumers will most likely have to pay once theyve 
transferred and is those fees will affect the ability of an alternative arrangement to match the 
benefits from the DB scheme. So, I remain satisfied that comparison between critical yields 
and discount rates is appropriate.
But, critical yields are not the only measure we use to compare pension benefits. In this case 
I've also looked at the regulators projection rates and NTMs own expectation that Mr Js 
fund would grow at a level of 5% a year. NTM has referred to figures within its TVAS report, 
which it says, show that Mr Js funds could last beyond his life expectancy after transferring. 
For example it says that if Mr J transferred and took benefits equal to the BSPS and a 
reduced pension at age 60 by way of draw down, then, by age 99, Mr Js fund would still 
have a surplus of £159,941. But I can't find the figures it refers to in its suitability report 
within its TVAS. As far as I can tell the TVAS doesn't show any of the calculations for its 
Cash Flow Modelling which appear in the suitability report. And it only shows the outcome 
of its cashflow models not its actual calculations. So its not clear exactly what its factored in 
or what its omitted, when making those calculations. 
For example, I don't know if its models have factored in the effects of product and adviser 
charges. And its anything but clear if its calculations are accurate. For instance at one point 
the suitability report refers to Mr J taking an equivalent income from his DB scheme of 
£17,713 a year. But the most Mr J was entitled to under his DB scheme was £9,101 a year. 
So it seems the reference to £17,713 was a mistake and most likely a cut and paste error. 
Further, NTMs calculations are based on a return of 5% a year every year. This is in line 
with the regulators projected return for an investor with Mr Js attitude to risk. But adviser 
and product charges would reduce that return to 3.65% a year. Also, NTMs projections and 
models are based on a steady return each and every year. However, given the volatility of 
the markets, consistent growth at that level seems unlikely over such a long period of time.
Also if there was a sustained period of poor performance or market crashes then there was a 
very real chance that Mr Js fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. In 
those circumstances Mr Js fund could be significantly less than NTMs models show. Similarly NTM said Mr J wanted to transfer his funds in order to be able to take higher sums 
at an early age. But taking higher sums sooner would have the effect of reducing the funds 
remaining, which could see those being depleted sooner than expected. But NTMs models 
dont appear to reflect that. 
It's also notable that the personal pension provider produced an illustration of what it 
calculated Mr Js pension might be worth at age 57. It didnt provide figures for ages 60 or 65 
so I can't make a direct comparison between the pension providers illustration and NTMs 
projections. However, NTMs TVAS shows that, at age 60, Mr Js fund would be around 
£273,000. But that is without factoring in the effects of inflation. In contrast the pension 
providers illustration showed what Mr Js fund would likely be worth, after allowing for a 
growth rate of 5% but being reduced by inflation of 2.5% and product and adviser charges. 
That showed that the fund would be worth £110,000 at age 57, which, according to my 
calculations would increase to £113,838 by age 60. That amount is £159,162 less than 
NTMs advice was based upon. 
It follows that I don't think NTMs cashflow models are likely to be representative of Mr Js 
situation in retirement. 
In response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint, NTMs said that, since he 
invested in it, Mr Js personal pension has performed higher than it had predicted. But, as 
NTM acknowledged in its suitability report, past performance is no guarantee for future 
performance. And given that Mr J had a minimum of 23 years to retirement at the time of 
NTM's advice, the scope for a market crash or periods of poor performance increases. So I 
consider the discount rates to be more realistic in regard to the long-term likely growth, 
rather than projecting recent returns forward. In other words, the fact that the personal 
pension has performed well doesn't mean it will continue to do so in the future. 
That said, given his balanced attitude to risk there was scope for Mr Js investments to make 
him slightly better off in retirement if he retired at age 65 compared to taking a pension from 
the PPF at that age. But that was anything but guaranteed. Transferring meant putting his 
funds at risk for only the marginal possibility that he could be better off by doing so. And, if 
his funds didn't meet NTMs projected growth rates, then he would likely be worse off in 
retirement. I dont think that clearly demonstrates, as the regulator required, that it was in 
his best interests to transfer. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as NTM 
has argued in this case. It said its recommendation allowed Mr J to achieve his other 
objectives. So I've gone on to consider whether NTM has clearly demonstrated that its 
advice was in Mr Js best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that NTMs role was to 
find out what Mr Js wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr J 
wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to 
ensure its recommendation was in his best interests. 
Flexibility, income needs and PPF benefits 
It seems a principal reason NTM recommended Mr J transfer was for the opportunity to retire 
early, and to take his pension flexibly. Having considered the evidence, I dont think 
achieving these goals at the expense of the guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme, albeit 
one that has gone into the PPF, was in his best interests. 
Mr J told NTM he wished to retire at 57. But at the time of the advice Mr J was still over 23 
years away from turning 57 and more than 31 years away from his DB schemes normal 
retirement age of 65. He wouldnt receive his state pension until 68. A lot could happen in 
the intervening period. So Mr Js plans to retire early, made when he was still only 33, could have changed significantly by the time he neared 57. NTMs taken issue with our 
Investigators comments that, given the timeframe until retirement, Mr J couldn't have had a 
concrete plan for early retirement. It said that when making retirement plans individuals 
should think about what age they plan to retire. I agree thats the case, but for most people, 
while early retirement might be something to aspire to, it isn't necessarily essential for them. 
I think, when asked, most people would say they would like to retire early. But, for the 
majority, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically 
reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. As a result, when faced with 
that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. Instead they opt to 
continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. That seems to be a 
more likely prospect for Mr J. But theres no evidence that NTM seriously challenged Mr Js 
objective of retirement at age 57 and questioned how realistic that was for him. So I dont 
think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
Also, Mr J had options other than transferring to a personal pension in order to retire early. 
For example Mr J and his employer had recently started paying into his employers DC 
scheme. And, in response to the Investigators assessment of the complaint, NTM estimated 
that by the time he turned 60 (it didnt give a figure for age 57) Mr Js DC fund could be worth 
in excess of £364,000. So an option for Mr J could have been to take early retirement and 
use the TFC and income from his DC pension to fund the early years of his retirement until 
age 65. Mr J could then have taken money from the PPF (including TFC) and that should 
have given him sufficient income to cover his outgoings until he could claim his state pension 
at age 68. But it doesn't appear that NTM put that option to him. It follows that I don't think 
the only prospect of Mr J taking early retirement relied on him transferring his benefits into a 
personal pension. 
That said, its true to say that Mr J couldnt have had flexible access to his DB funds from the 
PPF. While he could have chosen to take those early, if hed wanted to take TFC then he 
would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his pension. 
Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I 
can see why that might have been an attractive prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr J 
had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement. So 
while the option of drawing his income flexibly might seem like something that would be nice 
to have, I can't see that Mr J had any genuine need for that flexibility that would be worth 
giving up guaranteed benefits for.
Similarly, I've noted Mr Js desire to take TFC and access his funds flexibly. But those are 
things he could plan to do from his DC scheme. So he had no need to give up the 
guaranteed benefits from the PPF in order to have flexible access to funds or to take TFC.
In any event there would be little point in Mr J giving up the almost entirely risk-free benefits 
available to him through the PPF only to achieve a similar level of benefits outside the 
scheme. I appreciate Mr J was a considerable time away from retirement; so he did have a 
reasonable period to allow his investments to grow. But unless his personal pension 
performed consistently at around the regulators mid-level projection or higher, in real terms 
he was likely to be worse off by transferring out of his DB scheme.
Further, if Mr Js investments suffered significant losses or a period of sustained poor 
performance, there was the possibility that he would deplete his funds earlier than 
anticipated. In contrast the PPF benefits would last him for the rest of his life. 
Mr J was clearly concerned about the prospect of his pension moving into the PPF. But its 
not clear how NTM addressed that concern. For example, a move to the PPF would mean, 
on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But the 10% reduction didnt apply across the board, and 
in some ways the PPF could actually be beneficial for scheme members. For example, 
NTMs TVAS showed that the PPF benefits could have been more beneficial to Mr J, in the 
short term at least, thats because the PPF benefits at age 60, when taking TFC, were higher 
than those from the BSPS. 
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr J had serious concerns about their employers 
attitude towards their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in 
March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to 
the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for 
people like Mr J. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and ultimately the requirement for suitable advice.
I understand there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived 
notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme. Its clear 
that Mr Js concerns of that nature were a motivating factor in considering transferring his 
pension away from the influence of his employer. So he might well have been leaning 
towards transferring his pension when he sought advice. But NTM was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of all the available 
options. And, if Mr J had allowed his pension to move to the PPF then it would be 
administered by the PPF itself, his employer would no longer have an involvement in his 
pension decisions. So, this would have met Mr Js wish to remove the employer from the 
control of his pension. And in order to recommend that Mr J should transfer out of his DB 
scheme, even if that were to move to the PPF, NTM needed to be able to clearly 
demonstrate that doing so was in his best interests. But I don't think it did so. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr J could have met his income needs in retirement through the PPF, 
whilst also taking income from his DC scheme and his state pension. So, I dont think it was 
in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he could 
have achieved while remaining in the PPF.
Death benefits
Mr J told NTM that he thought the potential for a lump sum for his wife, should he die before 
her, would be more beneficial than the spouses benefit from the DB scheme. Death benefits 
are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones 
to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. Thats because whatever was left within it at 
the date of his death would be passed on to Mrs J. If that happened before his retirement or 
soon after, then that would likely be a significant sum. In contrast the PPF would pay Mrs J 
half of Mr Js yearly PPF pension entitlement after he died. But that pension would die with 
her. So Mrs J couldnt leave it as a legacy for their children after she died.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was for NTM to advise him about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement rather than for a 
legacy to family. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr J was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his family that they may not receive or need for many years to come. And by that time, 
the fund could have been depleted by Mr Js withdrawals from it in the meantime. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the PPF were underplayed. In fact NTMs 
suitability report doesn't refer to the PPF death benefits at all, it only quotes Mr Js 
entitlement from the DB scheme. I think its worth noting that death benefits from the PPF were not as generous as from the DB scheme. For example the PPF wouldn't provide any 
form of capital sum on Mr Js death. But by the time NTM gave Mr J its suitability report, hed 
lost entitlement to the DB scheme benefits as the deadline to opt into the BSPS2 had 
passed. I appreciate NTM was, most likely, hoping to issue its report before that deadline, 
but it was clearly aware from the outset that its prospects of doing so were slim. So I think it 
should have also covered off what the death benefits from the PPF were, and how those 
differed from the DB scheme benefits in its suitability report, but it didnt do so. 
Further, regardless that the PPF death benefits were less generous than those from the 
BSPS, I dont think that justified a recommendation to transfer to a personal pension.
Mr J was married. The PPF would have paid Mrs J 50% of Mr Js yearly pension entitlement 
on his death. This was guaranteed and escalated it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And there 
may not have been a large sum left in the personal pension if Mr J lived a long life, he took 
large sums from it in early retirement, or if his investments suffered a prolonged period of 
poor performance. In any event, NTM should not have encouraged Mr J to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Also, if Mr J was unfortunate enough to die while his children were still in full-time education 
the PPF would also pay them a dependents pension. Depending on the circumstances the 
PPF could pay up to half of his pension entitlement to his children if they were still in full time 
education and under 23 years of age. In other words the PPF had the potential to still pay 
100% of Mr Js pension entitlement on his death: 50% to Mrs J and 50% to his children. But I 
dont think NTM did enough to bring this to Mr J's attention. 
I've noted that NTMs suitability report said the DB scheme would pay a dependents 
pension for Mr Js children in the event of his death. But it then went in to say that his 
children were no longer dependent on [Mr J] financially. That was clearly wrong. Mr Js two 
children were both under 11 with a third on the way. So, he could have had children 
dependent on him financially, and eligible for death benefits from the PPF, for another 23 
years.
Further, I'm aware that Mr J had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. 
But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life 
insurance may have met his needs. 
Ive noted that NTM did look into the cost of life insurance. And its suitability report said that 
would cost Mr J around £50 a month; so it didnt think that was viable on grounds of cost. 
But it's not clear how it arrived at that conclusion. On NTMs file are quotes for 18 different 
life policies. The premiums are between £14.42 and £89 a month. So it's not clear how NTM 
concluded that it would cost Mr J £50 a month when there was a policy for over £35 a month 
less. But, in any event, even if it had only received one quote for £50 a month that wouldn't 
appear unaffordable. Mr J said he had disposable income of around £400 to £500 a month. 
Therefore, if he was serious about leaving an additional legacy for his family, he could have 
spared £50 of his disposable income in order to provide that legacy without giving up the 
guaranteed benefits from the PPF. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the possible decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. Did NTM rush Mr J or put him under pressure?
When he raised his complaint Mr J referred to feeling rushed and pressured. But I've seen 
no evidence of any undue pressure by NTM. At the time he approached it, the deadline for 
opting into the BSPS2 was only 15 days away. That was outside of NTMs control and at that 
point NTM hadn't given Mr J any advice. Although it did tell him he should think carefully 
about his options. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Also, I've noted that in his first meeting with NTM Mr J commented that he felt his employer 
and the scheme trustees were rushing him into making a decision. So, its apparent that he 
felt rushed and pressured before hed sought NTMs advice. And I've noted that NTM gave 
Mr J at least two weeks to consider its suitability report before meeting with him again to 
discuss the next steps. I think that was fair. It follows that I haven't seen any evidence that 
NTM unreasonably rushed or pressured Mr J.
NTMs comments about the BSPS2
Mr J said NTM told him it couldnt see the BSPS2 fund being financially viable and it would 
move into the PPF. NTM said that it did discuss the underfunding position of the BSPS. But 
it said it didn't comment on the funding viability of the BSPS2 as it didnt exist at that time. Of 
course I wasnt there when Mr J first met with NTM. So I can't know exactly what was 
discussed or what gave Mr J the impression that NTM didnt think the BSPS2 was viable. 
But NTM kept a reasonably comprehensive note of their meeting, which indicates that it 
urged Mr J to seriously consider  opting into the BSPS2 before the deadline expired. 
So the evidence available from the time of Mr Js first meeting with NTM doesn't give any 
indication it advised Mr J that the BSPS2 wasnt viable. Indeed the contemporaneous 
evidence is that NTM did just the opposite. I find the evidence on file, written as it was at the 
time of their meeting, more persuasive than Mr Js recollection of their discussion given 
some years later. It follows that I dont think NTM misled Mr J about the BSPS2 funding 
position prior to the deadline passing. 
Fees
Mr J also said he had to pay an initial fee for transferring and an ongoing fee for NTMs 
advice service. I've commented above on how fees could affect Mr Js future fund 
performance. But Ive also seen that NTM was quite clear about its fees from the outset. And 
Mr J signed to say that he agreed to those. Its usual, and reasonable, for advising firms like 
NTM to charge for their services and arranging pension transfers, and thats what it did in 
this case. Further, it only charged Mr J the fees he agreed to pay. So in that respect I don't 
think it did anything wrong. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But NTM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
NTM was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr J about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Js DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme funds to a personal 
pension. I appreciate that, by the time NTM gave its advice, Mr J could no longer opt for the BSPS2 
so his only option other than a transfer was the PPF. Something hed said he didnt want. 
But by allowing his pension to move to the PPF, he would have retained a guaranteed, risk-
free and increasing income. And by transferring to a personal pension Mr J was 
unnecessarily putting his pension funds at risk. I dont think there were any other particular 
reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Js 
best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he could retain 
safeguarded benefits within the PPF.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for NTMs advice. I accept that Mr J is an adult and plainly capable of making his 
own decisions. But, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he would have 
transferred if it wasnt for NTMs recommendation that he should do so. Thats because, at 
the time of its advice, Mr Js BSPS pension accounted for a significant portion of his 
retirement provision. He was an inexperienced investor who had no need to put his pension 
funds at risk and he was paying NTM for its expertise. So, if NTM had given clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he would have accepted the expert professional advice he was paying for.
It follows that I don't think NTMs advice to Mr J to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. Instead, as opting into the BSPS2 was no longer open to him, I think NTM 
should have advised him to allow his DB funds to move to the PPF. But it didnt do that. So, I 
think it's fair for NTM to compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, in line with the 
regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
Also, as this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr J, as hes been 
concerned that his security in retirement might have been compromised as a result of NTMs 
unsuitable advice, I think it should pay him £300 to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for NTM to put Mr J, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I've said above, I think Mr J 
would have remained in the DB scheme which would then have moved into the PPF. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
When making the calculation NTM (or providers acting for it) should use the FCAs BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr Js representative and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Js acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, NTM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Js 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
NTM should also pay Mr J £300 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience 
arising from its unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and will require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman