DRN-2289352
The complaint
Bank of Scotland plc is responsible for dealing with this complaint but it was trading as 
Halifax when it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. So to keep things simpler, Ill mostly refer to 
Halifax in my decision. 
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (when it was trading as Halifax) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a Halifax mortgage in 1984. This complaint concerns PPI they 
bought in 1995 when they arranged a further advance on their mortgage account. 
The policy protected their monthly mortgage repayments if Mr W couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with this view. 
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Mr and Mrs W have a number of concerns about the policy.
It looks to me like Mr and Mrs Ws main complaint about what happened when they were 
sold the PPI in 1995 is that Mr W was recommended to take out the PPI cover and told the 
policy would cover the life of the mortgage. But Mr and Mrs W told us this hasnt happened. 
Mr W told us that hes been unable to make a claim in all the circumstances he expected, 
despite having continued to pay for the policy. Ill say a bit more about this later. But, to be 
clear, in the main part of my decision Im just looking at what happened when Mr and Mrs W 
took out the PPI in 1995 for Mr W and thinking about whether Halifax mis-sold them the 
policy then.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Only Mr W had PPI but Mrs W was a joint party to the mortgage. So Ive looked at the 
information supplied about both their circumstances.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Heres why I say this.
If I could say that Halifax didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that having PPI was optional 
or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent then those would be 
reasons for me to uphold their complaint. But I havent seen enough to make me think that 
happened. Ill explain why. 
Halifax couldnt provide any documents signed by Mr and Mrs W showing how theyd taken 
out PPI for Mr W. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs W to have kept this. 
Halifax cant say how it sold the policy. Mr and Mrs W remembered taking out PPI during a 
meeting so I think thats probably what happened. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr and Mrs W to recall exactly what was said during a meeting that took place so long ago. 
This means that what Mr and Mrs W say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
this complaint. 
I have to be impartial. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely  and where theres only limited information available, this means making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. I've thought about all the likely ways the policy 
mightve been mis-sold  and Ill deal with these in my decision. Theres further information 
about how we make decisions on our website if Mr and Mrs W would like to read more about 
this generally.
I dont know precisely what was discussed when Mr and Mrs W arranged PPI. But, on 
balance, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs W not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it. 
I say this because theyd taken out their original mortgage without PPI  so I think they 
wouldve been aware at the time that PPI wasnt a condition of borrowing money.
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful - particularly when they were 
borrowing extra money which increased the amount of their mortgage. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W decided they wanted the benefits PPI 
could offer them and they chose to buy the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W say Halifax recommended the policy to Mr W. 
Halifax couldnt say from its records how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. So, in fairness to 
them, it looked at their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended 
PPI during the meeting Mr and Mrs W recalled having at a Halifax branch. 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, I think this 
is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. 
It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So 
thats how I've looked at this complaint as well. 
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr W took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which we know was in use just a few months 
later. So I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr W took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.It doesnt look to me as if the PPI was unsuitable for Mr W. Looking at the likely policy terms 
and conditions that applied, he was eligible for the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs W told us about their circumstances at the time. 
But, the policy wouldve covered their mortgage repayments for longer than Mr W wouldve 
received full sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work  and it wouldve been paid in 
addition to any work benefits he mightve got. This couldve been useful  especially if hed 
had extra costs as a result of being ill or disabled. 
Also, the policy couldve paid out if hed unexpectedly lost his job and became unemployed. 
I dont know if Mrs W wouldve been able to manage the mortgage monthly repayments on 
her own for very long if Mr W wasnt working. From what theyve told us I can see that Mr W 
was by far the main earner. So losing his income is likely to have had a significant adverse 
impact on their financial situation. Having PPI for Mr W was a way for Mr and Mrs W to 
protect his income so theyd be able to keep on paying the mortgage and protect their home 
even if Mr W couldnt work. The PPI provided Mr and Mrs W with significantly better cover 
than they had otherwise. So I think that at the time, when they signed up for this policy, it 
offered them a useful benefit. 
Ive taken into account that Mr W mentioned being able to live off his assets. I dont know 
what those assets were at the time. But having PPI meant Mr and Mrs W would be able to 
keep those assets secure and available to spend on other things or to provide financial 
security. 
I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W taking into account what theyve told us 
about their situation at the time in 1995. So, being sold an unsuitable policy isnt a reason for 
me to uphold their complaint.
It doesnt look to me as if Mr W was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, 
as he couldve potentially benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely that 
having better information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take it out.
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Mr and Mrs W chose to take out the policy, when they didnt have to, 
it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W  so thats not a reason for me to uphold their 
complaint. 
Looked at overall, I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided to buy the policy to cover 
Mr W even if theyd been better informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular 
situation in 1995. And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr and Mrs W some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
This means it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right. Ive taken carefully into account what Mr W has told us about what Halifax said to him in 
1997 when the policy was revised. But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold 
when he took it out in 1995 and it isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint.
Our adjudicator suggested that Mr W could take up his complaint about what happened in 
1997 directly with Halifax - and I can see hes had some initial contact about that. If Halifax is 
unable to resolve this issue to Mr Ws satisfaction then he can complain about it to this 
Service and well be able to look at this. But its a separate complaint from his complaint 
about the policy being mis-sold in 1995. So he first needs to give Halifax a chance to 
explain. 
And if he hasnt yet done so, Mr W may wish to approach the insurer. If Mr W wants to try 
and pursue a retrospective claim and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he 
should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy, and if unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this 
Service as a separate matter. 
I appreciate that my decision is disappointing for Mr and Mrs W. But I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps explain how I've reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman