DRN-3373488
The complaint
Mr U complains that he was unable to open a TSB Bank plc account online.
What happened
Mr U says he tried on two occasions to open a TSB account online. He says on both 
occasions the account couldnt be opened and was told he would need to attend a branch to 
open an account which is over 25 miles away. Mr U says it would be inconvenient to attend 
a branch and would like an account opened. He says he applied for an account with a 
different business which was refused and says that may be due to TSB carrying out a credit 
search on his credit file.
TSB has apologised for what took place and says it has investigated the issue. It accepts it 
has a systems problem and the only alternative it can offer Mr U is for him to attend a branch 
to open an account. TSB has paid £60 for the inconvenience and says it will consider any 
further costs.
Mr U brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought TSB had paid an appropriate 
compensation amount and fairly offered to cover any of Mr Us expenses. The investigator 
didnt think it likely a credit search would have resulted in Mr Us other application being 
rejected.
Mr U doesnt accept that view and says travelling to a branch would inappropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint.
There is no question here that TSBs systems meant that Mr U couldnt complete his account 
application online. I have no doubt Mr U was caused inconvenience and frustration in not 
being able to complete the process. I also appreciate that Mr U would like the account 
opened.
Im satisfied that TSB has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation award of 
£60. I dont think Mr U suffered any financial loss and the impact on him from TSBs mistake 
was relatively minimal and that the time Mr U spent trying to open the account was again 
relatively minimal.
I appreciate that Mr U doesnt wish to attend a branch to open an account. But I cant see 
what alternative there is here as TSB has made clear that is Mr Us only option if he wishes 
to open an account. I also appreciate Mr U says the account opening forms could be sent to 
him. But Im satisfied that its up to TSB when exercising its commercial judgement to decide 
upon such matters and not something I can fairly order it to do.
I have not seen any evidence that TSB carried out a search on Mr Us credit file and think it 
unlikely it would have as the account opening process was not completed. In any event I 
have also not seen evidence that if such a search was carried out that it was linked to Mr Us 
other account application being rejected. I am sure Mr U appreciates that a business looks at 
a number of issues before deciding to approve an account application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman