DRN-2569004
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 89,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be showing some signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if there is a fault with the car that is reported within the 
first 30 days the consumer can reject the vehicle without giving the business the opportunity 
to repair the car. I understand Mr A says he reported problems with the car within the first 30 
days, but Ive not seen any further evidence of that, and I dont think sufficient evidence has 
been provided to demonstrate that was the case. The calls that have been provided dont 
demonstrate a fault was reported in that time frame and neither do the email trails Ive 
reviewed.
If there are faults with a car that are identified after 30 days and within the first six months 
the relevant legislation explains that we should assume they were present on the car when it 
was supplied and therefore the business responsibility. The onus is then on the business to 
demonstrate the faults werent present from the beginning.
Here I can see that Mr A did report faults with the car within six months. 
The business arranged an independent inspection and, in July 2020 about four months after 
the car had been supplied to Mr A, the inspector noted that the cars air conditioning wasnt 
working properly and that there was a damaged lower suspension arm ball joint.
The business arranged repairs in September 2020, but Mr A has explained that the issues 
persist. 
In February 2021 our investigator noted Mr As continued concerns and explained that BMF 
had offered for you to either have the car looked at, at a garage local to yourself and for the 
garage to provide Blue Motor Finance with any issues they find for them to address. Ive not 
seen that Mr A took up that offer so it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest there is evidence 
there are still outstanding issues with this car that were present when the car was supplied. 
The repairing garage who drove the vehicle back from Birmingham to London to return it to 
Mr A said there were no knocking noises and the business have explained that Mr A didnt 
raise further concerns for nine days. I think its likely if the ball joint replacement hadnt been 
successful it would have been evident much earlier than that.
Im persuaded, on balance, that the business has done all it needs to here. There were faults 
with this car that were reported in the first six months and in those circumstances the 
business are allowed an opportunity to repair them. Theyve done that and I dont think they 
need to allow Mr A to reject the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman