DRN-3487676
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a whole-of-life policy by St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP). Specifically, shes unhappy that she wasnt told it was reviewable. 
What happened
In 2011, Mrs M sought advice from SJP. She says her husband had taken an Equity 
Release mortgage on their home before hed passed away. As such, the home has an 
increasing mortgage on it and she says she hadnt fully understood this until around the time 
she chose to get some advice. Mrs M was 77 years old and wanted to find out if there was a 
way to have that mortgage paid off in the event of her death so her daughters could continue 
to live in the house.
SJP recommended a whole-of-life policy which had a sum assured of around £132,000  
which broadly matched the mortgage balance at the time  and was set to increase in line 
with indexation. The initial premiums, also set to increase annually with indexation, were 
around £525 per month. The suitability letter says the policy contribution was affordable at 
the time and is maintainable for the future. 
In 2021, Mrs M received her first policy review which said the cover would need to drop to 
around £79,000 or the premiums would need to increase to around £1,600 per month. Mrs M 
complained as she couldnt afford the increase in premiums. She explained that she wasnt 
aware this could happen and believed she had a policy that would only increase in line with 
indexation. The policy is written into trust and we have the trustees, Ms HS and Ms Ms, 
consent to consider this complaint.
SJP said that the policy was suitable for Mrs Ms circumstances at the time. It said that it 
therefore hadnt mis-sold the policy. It did offer Mrs M £250 for the delays in answering her 
complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mrs M and the trustees referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She explained that it was clear from the 
correspondence that SJP hadnt realised the policy it sold Mrs M was reviewable. She said 
that Mrs M had business assets available for her daughters to sell if she passed away which 
couldve been used to reduce the debt on the house. She felt that had Mrs M been told the 
policy would only operate in the way she believed for ten years, she wouldnt have taken a 
policy out. She recommended SJP refunds Mrs Ms premiums plus interest. She also 
recommended it pays Mrs M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
SJP disagreed with our investigator. It said the advice was suitable and it was the only viable 
option at the time for Mrs M. It said it felt the redress suggestion was over generous as Mrs 
M cannot have the benefit of ten years of cover which would have paid out on her death in 
that period for free. It asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator for broadly the same reasons. Im upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
Was the policy mis-sold?
The first issue to be decided is whether SJP mis-sold Mrs M the policy, and I think that it did. 
I agree with SJP that a whole-of-life policy would provide an option to Mrs M to protect her 
children from having to repay the equity release mortgage on the home they live in. But Im 
conscious on this occasion that Mrs M wasnt told about they key risk with this type of policy. 
The evidence suggests she was led to believe this policy would be sustainable for the rest of 
her life, regardless of how long that would be and this wasnt the case.
Ive considered the suitability letter and the fact find completed in 2011 carefully and thought 
about what Mrs M has told us about her recollections. Its clear that the advice was sought 
after she discovered how the equity release mortgage worked. Mrs M has told us she didnt 
think shed manage to get a policy that did what she needed to at her age  which was 77 at 
the time. And Im persuaded she was looking at options and wasnt going to spend a 
significant amount of money on something unless it fully addressed her objective.
SJP, in its suitability letter to Mrs M, says:
There are a number of alternative actions and products I did not recommend for the 
following reasons  We were able to source a plan that was not only cheaper than the other 
providers but had a surrender value as well.
The suitability letter doesnt actually outline the alternative actions and products that werent 
recommended. SJP has told us that the non-reviewable policy available at the time was over 
£1,400 per month which wasnt affordable  but it gives no mention that this was discussed. 
The suitability letter indicates that this policy was recommended as it was cheaper and had a 
surrender value.
The suitability letter goes on to say that the contribution level is affordable now and is 
maintainable in the future. The suitability letter makes no mention that the policy is 
reviewable.
Looking at the comments from the adviser, it appears he wasnt aware the policy was 
reviewable and has acknowledged that he wouldnt have told Mrs M about the risks because 
he didnt know. He goes on to say that it was suitable however. So, Im persuaded that the 
risk the policy would only be affordable for ten years was not explained to Mrs M. She was 
under the impression that she had a policy which would increase annually in line with 
indexation but that no changes beyond that would be made. It was SJP who gave her that 
impression. Im not persuaded that shed have taken the policy out  given the monthly cost 
 if she was told that after ten years, the premiums would likely rise significantly. And, I think 
that wouldve been an obvious risk the adviser shouldve been aware of as the first review 
would take place when Mrs M was 87 years old.
Ive noted that SJP strongly believe that this policy was the only viable option, and believe 
that it is suitable for Mrs Ms circumstances. But with the obvious risk of unsustainable 
premiums, and given I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs M thought shed only need a 
ten year policy, Im persuaded she wouldnt have taken this policy out at all had SJP advised 
her correctly about the risks. As Mrs M took this policy out without being fully informed, I 
agree with our Investigator that is was mis-sold.I have noted that SJP said it sent out documents after Mrs M accepted the advice which had 
information about the policy on it. I can see that the application form hasnt selected an 
option for the basis of cover (maximum or standard) and SJP hasnt been able to provide us 
with a copy of the policy illustration it says it provided Mrs M at the time. They key features 
document has been given to SJP recently from the policy provider. Theres nothing to show 
what Mrs M was given in terms of how the policy worked. And in any event I think it was right 
for Mrs M to trust what SJP was telling her and its very clear it didnt explain how the policy 
worked correctly and it didnt explain the risks  because the adviser himself has said he 
wasnt aware of the reviewable nature of the policy. 
Trouble and Upset
SJP already offered Mrs M £250 compensation for its delay in dealing with her complaint. It 
said it wouldnt increase this as it hadnt mis-sold the policy. The investigator recommended 
it pay a total of £500.
Ive already concluded that I think SJP did mis-sell this policy to Mrs M. And Ill set out what I 
think SJP should do to put things right for that below. But I also need to consider the impact 
its error has had on Mrs M.
Mrs M was led to believe she was getting a policy that would pay out on death  and that it 
would do so as long as she paid her premiums that she expected to rise annually with 
indexation. So, I think it wouldve been a considerable shock to her when she found out that 
to maintain her sum assured shed have to pay and additional £1,000 per month  
essentially a 200% increase on her original premiums. Mrs M had been paying her 
premiums for ten years  these had steadily increased from £525 to over £600 per month. 
This was a significant monthly payment for Mrs M, who was retired, and represented a large 
amount of her disposable income. I think, therefore, that the shock that this policy didnt 
operate in the way she was led to believe wouldve caused a great level of upset.
Its clear Mrs M only spent the premiums and took the policy to ensure her children could 
stay in the house that they have lived in their whole lives. So, to realise that this policy would 
no longer be able to do that for them, despite having paid a significant sum of money and 
having not been told that this was a risk, wouldve been distressing for her. She is essentially 
back in the position she was when she originally sought the advice  in 2011  when there 
were potentially other things her and her children could think about at the time had they been 
aware this policy wasnt what they were looking for. So, I think SJPs error in not explaining 
the risks and therefore mis-selling this policy has caused Mrs M significant trouble and 
upset. SJP should pay her £500 to compensate her for this.
Putting things right
Had SJP explained the risks to Mrs M about this policy I dont think shed have taken it out. I 
understand SJP dont think Mrs M should be able to have the benefit of life cover over the 
last ten years for free, but I dont think shed have taken any policy out if she was told the 
policy was reviewable. I think she and her family wouldve explored other options or made 
alternative plans. So, Mrs M should be put back into the position shed have been in had she 
not taken out this life assurance cover.
To put things right St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc must do the following:
- Refund the premiums Mrs M has paid for the policy less the surrender value.
- Add interest* at 8% simple per annum from the date the premiums were paid to the 
date of settlement.- Pay Mrs M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
*If St Jamess Place Wealth management Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc must pay redress in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H, Ms M and 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman