DRN-2783981
The complaint
Mr C complains that an investment bond recommended to him and his late wife by 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wasnt suitable for them. The complaint is 
brought on his behalf, and on his behalf as executor of Mrs Cs estate, by a claims 
management company.
What happened
In November 2007, Mr and Mrs C sought investment advice from NatWest. They were both 
retired and wanted to invest some of their capital to provide them with a better return than a 
bank deposit account. They also wanted the investment to provide them with a monthly 
income to fund their planned lifestyle.
As a result of the advice they received, they invested £150,000 in an investment bond, which 
I will refer to as the A bond.
Mr Cs representative says that the A bond was not suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs risk profile 
and that they were recommended to invest too much of their capital in the bond.
NatWest said that it was satisfied the recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time and that it aligned to their attitude to risk and met their needs and 
objectives.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that:
Mr and Mrs C werent in a position to make up any losses they sustained and too much 
of their capital had been committed.
The investment was not sufficiently diversified  the entire £150,000 was invested in one 
fund.
Mr Cs need for additional funds to cover a downturn in his health wasnt considered.
Taking an immediate income from the bond was detrimental to the potential growth of 
the bond.
He thought NatWest should compensate Mr C by using the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index.
A second investigator considered the complaint and agreed with the first investigators 
conclusions. But he thought it was more appropriate to calculate compensation as follows: 
for half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other 
half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
NatWest didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. It said, in summary, that:
Mr and Mrs C had money invested in a property which meant the overall percentage of 
the funds the customers had available for investment was less than 55% of their capital.
The balanced managed fund was able to invest in any of the appropriate funds available 
to the fund managers at the time  and NatWest provided the list of funds.
Mr and Mrs C had experience of investing in both low and medium risk investments.
The first investigators recommendation to compensate using a medium risk benchmark, 
suggests that they had accepted Mr and Mrs C had a medium attitude to risk.
The investment left them with £89,000 on deposit for emergencies. And they had ample 
income to meet their needs. So they had enough means to offset any potential losses.
Future health issues were considered by the advisor, as evidence in the fact find.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest advised Mr and Mrs C to invest £143,400 in the bond. Mr and Mrs C said they 
wanted to invest £150,000. They felt this still left them with enough readily available money  
around £89,000 - to cover any unforeseen circumstances. They thought by investing a 
higher sum, they would increase their exposure to greater capital growth whilst enabling 
them to withdraw the monthly sum they wanted each month - £500  to supplement their 
income. 
I dont find the amount they invested unsuitable  it left them with a large emergency fund 
still on readily accessible bank deposit accounts and there was no indication that Mr and 
Mrs C would require more than this. Our investigator thought Mr Cs need for additional 
funds if his health took a turn for the worse hadnt been considered. I dont agree  I can see 
from the fact find that this was discussed, and that Mr and Mrs C were comfortable with the 
amount they decided to invest.
I dont find too much was invested, and I dont think the investment in the bond itself was 
necessarily unsuitable. But NatWest advised that all of the money should be invested in one 
fund. I dont think this was suitable in Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C had a large enough amount of money available for investment to allow for it to 
be split across a range of products or funds. And I think it was reasonable to expect to see 
some consideration of limiting concentration of risk in the recommendation. One of the key 
benefits of the bond recommended is stated as:
You can invest in up to 10 of the funds available in one bond
But NatWest recommended that all of Mr and Mrs Cs money was invested in one fund  the 
Balanced Managed Fund. Although this fund appears to have aligned with their investment 
objectives and risk profile, I would have expected the money to be split between a range of 
suitable products or funds. Products and funds with a similar risk rating can both operate and 
perform differently.
Although NatWest says the fund itself was diversified  it invested in a basket of assets  
spreading the investment across a range of funds or products would have built in an additional layer of diversification. And, overall, I think this would have better suited Mr and 
Mrs Cs agreed risk profile.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he and Mrs C had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what he and Mrs C would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs C's circumstances and objectives 
when they invested. 
What should NatWest do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, NatWest must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Bond A 
surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
NatWest totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mr and Mrs C wanted income with some growth and were willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs C's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
National Westminster Bank Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman