DRN-3723874
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected the claim they 
made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around April 2016, Mr and Mrs D were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs D decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs D made a claim to Shawbrook under the Act. They said that P had 
told them that the income and savings from the system would be enough to cover its cost, 
but this had turned out to be untrue, and it was this misrepresentation that had induced Mr 
and Mrs D to enter into the contract with P. Also, the system is underperforming.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs D or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs D, as the sales documentation had made it clear that it would take 
18 years for the system to pay for itself. But she agreed that the system was generating 
significantly less energy than had been estimated at the point of sale. So she upheld this 
complaint, and recommended that Shawbrook pay Mr and Mr D the difference between the 
estimated and actual income and savings, with interest, and another £200 for their trouble.
Shawbrook did not agree. It provided further evidence to show that P had offered to upgrade 
the solar panels free of charge, and that Mr and Mrs D had declined that offer. It added that 
this offer was still open.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded to uphold it. I will explain why.
Evidence
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs D say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost to them.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ds testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most 
likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs D, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ds version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs D have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ds recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs D could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments  and savings from the system. The combined 
income and savings in year one are shown as £499.04. This is shown in a table titled 
Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of £41.59. Im satisfied that the quote also set out 
that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £83.59. As a result, Im not able to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs D were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered 
by the FIT payments and savings. There would still be more to pay each month.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £83.59. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £84.97, but the difference  £1.38  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first twelve years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough 
money to cover the loan payments until year 13. Until then, they would have to make up the 
shortfall from their own pocket.
So I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs D could expect to receive from 
the system by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT 
income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would 
not be enough to cover the monthly loan repayments during the loan. Ive carefully thought 
about Mr and Mrs Ds version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a 
central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, which was also in the quote and which plainly 
showed that the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs D were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take 12 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs D could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the 12-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This timescale also appears 
in the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that during year 12 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs D could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £7,822. (To save space I have 
only shown here the rows for years 1, 7 and 8.)
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £15,294, 
would be reached by the end of year 18.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs D that the system would pay for its cash price in 12 
years, and for the loan within 18 years.
Under-performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 1,122 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ds FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 850 kWh a year. This is only about 76% of what was estimated by P 
at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is not performing as well as it should. 
That is a breach of contract by P.
However, that does not mean that Mr and Mrs D are entitled to return the system for a full 
refund. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 P is entitled to one attempt at repairing the 
system first. I think it is fair and reasonable that I should take that into account in deciding 
whether to hold Shawbrook liable under section 75 for Ps breach of contract.
I have seen evidence, in the form of Ps contact notes, that P offered to upgrade the panels 
for free in September 2021, and also to pay Mr and Mrs D the full loss of savings and 
income up to then. Mr and Mrs D declined. But I think that was a reasonable offer, since it 
might have fixed the problem, and they would not have been left out of pocket. So for that 
reason, I dont think it would be right for me to require Shawbrook to pay the compensation 
my colleague recommended instead.
That offer is still open. I recommend that Mr and Mrs D take it, and that they do not press for 
a final decision in this case until the upgrade has taken place and enough time has passed 
to see if the system is generating enough energy. That solution might be enough to fairly 
resolve this complaint. But if it fails, our service will then still be in a position to require 
Shawbrook to do something else instead. That will not be possible if a final decision has 
already been issued by then.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs D 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs D to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to their complaint.
Developments since my provisional decision
Following my provisional decision in October 2022, Mr and Mrs D agreed to have their 
panels upgraded. After a delay of about five months, this was finally done in March 2023. 
Their 250W panels were replaced with 400W panels.
Mr D has provided me with two meter readings from the upgraded panels: 6,212.38 kWh on 
1 June, and 6,344.27 kWh on 14 June; the difference is 131.89 kWh over 13 days. That 
works out at a daily rate of 10.145 kWh. If the panels generated that much all year round, 
that would come to 3,703 kWh a year, but of course they cant do that, because these 
readings were taken during a summer heatwave. In other seasons, the panels will obviously 
generate less than that. But even taking that into account, it still seems likely to me that the 
average generation over a year will still significantly exceed the 1,122 kWh a year that was 
promised in the quote. So I am satisfied that the upgrade has solved the problem.
It still remains for Shawbrook to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs D for the under-
performance of the original panels.
Compensation
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by making sure 
that Mr and Mrs D dont suffer a financial loss. In my view that would mean that the solar 
panel system should generate roughly what was promised in the quote.
So Shawbrook must:  
a) calculate the difference between what the original panels generated as income 
(through the FIT and savings) for Mr and Mrs D up to 23 March 2023 and what the 
sales paperwork set out as being the annual total income savings, and
b) add simple interest to that amount at the rate of 8% a year, and pay the total to Mr 
and Mrs D.
Shawbrook has already offered to pay £125.94 for the under-performance; this seems a little 
lower than what I would have expected, so I direct Shawbrook to show its working to Mr and 
Mrs D.
I also direct Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused (in addition 
to its earlier offer of £200).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman