DRN-2757397
The complaint
Mr C complains that OneSavings Bank Plc, trading as Kent Reliance, delayed sending him 
money which he wished to invest, causing him to miss out on an investment opportunity.
What happened
Mr C had a savings account with Kent Reliance. In March 2020, he applied in writing to 
withdraw £295,000, which he says he planned to invest with the assistance of a third party 
which I will call R. Kent Reliance told Mr C  wrongly  that it could transfer the money 
electronically to a bank account, but not to a building society account. Mr C did not have a 
bank account, and so he agreed to receive the money by cheque. He asked for the cheque 
to be made out to R. But five days after receiving his application, Kent Reliance told him the 
money could only be sent in the form of a cheque made out to him personally.
Another three days later, when Mr C had opened a bank account, he sent Kent Reliance a 
second withdrawal request. This time he wanted to close his account and collect the entire 
balance, which was more than £557,000. Kent Reliance received that request the next day, 
1 April, and the day after that it wrote to Mr C to tell him that a cheque would be sent to him 
in two to three working days (in his complaint to us, Mr C described this as in 2 to 3 days). 
The cheque arrived four calendar days later, 6 April, and Mr C says that in the meantime he 
was very anxious and suffered from insomnia. When the cheque arrived, he took it to a local 
branch, contrary to the governments advice about the Covid-19 pandemic, and he 
complains that this jeopardised his life and caused him further anxiety.
It transpired that, contrary to what Kent Reliance had told Mr C, it actually could have 
transferred the money electronically to his building society account all along. So he 
complained, first to Kent Reliance and then to our service, saying that this incorrect advice 
had resulted in unnecessary delay. The delay had caused him to miss out on the investment 
opportunity he had wanted, and he calculated his consequential loss to be £21,770.92.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. He accepted that Mr C had planned to invest 
the money on the stock market, but after making enquiries with R,1 he did not think there 
was evidence to confirm that Mr C had had any contact with R earlier than 28 May 2020. He 
therefore did not agree that Kent Reliance should have to reimburse Mr C for the amount he 
had asked for, because Mr C had not had a definite investment plan arranged with R at the 
material time. Instead, the investigator recommended that Kent Reliance pay Mr C £500 for 
his loss of opportunity and general inconvenience, and also refund him the interest he would 
have been paid if his account closing balance had been paid into his building society 
account on 30 March. He chose that date because he thought it was the date on which the 
money would have begun earning interest if Kent Reliance had neither misinformed Mr C nor 
wasted five days before telling him the cheque had to be made out to him.
Kent Reliance accepted that recommendation. It calculated the interest which Mr C should 
1 When Mr C agreed to us looking into his complaint, he completed our complaint form and provided 
us with consent to contact any third party that may have been involved in his complaint.
have received to be £73.26.
Mr C initially accepted it, but then changed his mind. He named the individual he had been in 
contact with at R, and provided two emails which he had sent to that person in March 2020 
as evidence that he had been discussing investments with R at the time. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wrote to R to ask it to carry out further checks to see if it could verify what Mr C had told us, 
and I provided the name of the person he had been in contact with. R replied and confirmed 
that Mr C would have been communicating with the individual he had named, but was 
unable to confirm when. R said that it had received a cheque from Mr C on 28 May 2020, for 
£295,000, which it had returned to him on 1 June. No trades had been placed through 
Mr Cs account with R since 16 October 2018.
The two emails Mr C showed us do not specify any particular plans for how he intended to 
invest his money, only a general intention to invest. So while I accept that Mr C did contact R 
in March, with a view to investing, I do not accept that his plans were sufficiently far 
advanced (in terms of his instructions to R) that I could safely conclude that, but for Kent 
Reliances errors, he would probably have received the income he says he would. Nor can 
I be satisfied that he would have invested his whole closing balance, instead of the £295,000 
he initially asked for, or that he would not have changed his mind. I therefore agree with our 
investigators opinion, and for broadly the same reasons, that I should not award Mr C the 
consequential loss he has asked for.
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about the cheque taking four days to arrive. I have read 
Kent Reliances letter to him, and it clearly said the cheque would be sent within three 
working days. The next four calendar days included a weekend, so the cheque was 
delivered in two working days, as promised. There was no error here.
For the other matters Mr C has complained about, I think that £500, plus the interest he 
missed out on with his building society, is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order OneSavings Bank Plc, trading as Kent 
Reliance, to pay Mr C £573.26.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman