DRN-4329843
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) handled a 
claim he made to it.
What happened
Mr H bought two flight tickets from an airline using his AESEL credit card. He says the 
following day he called who he thought was the airline to confirm all the details.
Mr H says the operator led him to believe it was a representative of the airline and that in 
order to confirm his ticket details it had to re-book and cancel the old tickets.
Mr H says he later discovered that he wasnt talking to a representative of the airline but an 
independent travel agent. The agent had billed him for two additional tickets and not 
cancelled the original booking he made with the airline. 
Mr H says he has been misled and scammed  he doesnt think the agent actually booked 
him any tickets  it simply charged him again for nothing. He raised a dispute with AESEL.
AESEL says it raised a chargeback. It says it followed the dispute process correctly but the 
documents from the agent do not confirm a refund is due to him and state the ticket he 
booked with it is non-refundable. 
Mr H referred the matter to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  he 
confirmed that the agent had made a non-refundable booking and could not see where in the 
documents it had agreed to cancel his other booking.
The matter has come to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to resolve dispute informally  so I wont be commenting on all the evidence 
raised by the parties. I will be focusing on the matters I consider central to this complaint.
When looking at whether AESEL has acted fairly I consider the relevant card protections 
which were available to it. In that sense, I think chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) are relevant here.
Essentially, I believe this dispute centres around what Mr H says he was told by the agent on 
the phone and whether he received the service it promised. While chargeback can be 
relevant to situations like this I can see that AESEL discontinued the dispute here. 
I understand the chargeback scheme is limited by the particular rules available and that in 
some cases these might not place weight on certain types of evidence such as oral 
testimony. So I can see how chargeback might not have been suited to this particular case 
which centres on a phone call. Although I think (and as will become evident from my analysis 
below) there was possibly a case for a dispute being raised for a service not having been 
provided. However, because of my findings below in respect of Section 75 I dont consider it 
necessary to go into this in any further detail at this point in time.
I dont see where AESEL had considered Section 75. And I think it should have done so here 
as Mr H used a credit card to pay for the service from the agent and his claim centres 
around misrepresentation. 
Section 75 enables Mr H in certain circumstances to make a like claim against AESEL for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of an agreement he has for goods or 
services financed by the credit card. 
There are certain technical criteria in order for Section 75 to apply relating to the cost of the 
goods or service or the overall nature of the agreement. I note here Mr H contracted directly 
with the agent for services within the financial limits for a Section 75 claim. So I have gone 
on to consider if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the agent in respect of 
the service it provided.
Where matters are unclear I make my decision on what I consider is most likely to have 
occurred. It is important to note this here, particularly where some matters hinge on a phone 
call which the agent has been unable to supply a recording of.
My starting point is that when Mr H spoke to the agent he had already booked airline tickets 
for him and his partner directly with the airline. Mr H says he did this on the airlines website 
on 16/8/22. I have seen the booking confirmation which the airline later sent him which is 
headed Thank you for using [airline] on-line with a particular 6-digit booking reference 
number which for the purposes of this decision I will refer to as R1. Furthermore, I can see 
on Mr Hs statement that a transaction total amount of £1786.12 was charged to him by the 
airline on the 16/8/22.
Mr H says that the following day (17/8) he was yet to receive the information from the airline 
confirming all of his flight details. He wanted to confirm these and make sure everything was 
as agreed so he called a number he found online which appeared to be for the airlines 
customer service. He says the operator led him to believe that he worked on behalf of the 
airline. Mr H says that in order to confirm all the details of his ticket the operator told him that 
he needed to put the booking through again and cancel the old booking. So Mr H says he 
agreed to pay for this new booking on that basis.
I dont have a copy of the call recording. But I find Mr Hs testimony credible and find it 
implausible that he  knowing he had already booked once with the airline would have:
spoken to an agent to confirm details and re-book if it had been clear that it was not 
in fact working on behalf of the airline and was in fact an independent travel agent;
failed to have mentioned on the phone that he already booked with the airline the day 
before;
agreed to book a duplicate ticket for the exact same flight for the same people (he 
and his partner) without some kind of assurance that his old booking would be 
cancelled.So I think it is more likely than not here that the agent told Mr H something or several things 
which turned out not to be true in order for him to agree to make a second payment for the 
exact same amount for the exact same booking. Such as:
it was working on behalf of the airline and able to deal with queries related to his 
existing booking;
that in order to confirm the details of his booking it had to (and would) cancel the old 
booking and create a new one.
So it appears here that Mr H was likely given false information by the agent about its role 
and also what was needed in order to confirm his booking. Had it not misled Mr H regarding 
this I dont consider it likely Mr H would have continued the conversation with it, let alone 
part with more money. I consider this means (for the purposes of Section 75) there has likely 
been a misrepresentation here by the agent in respect of its role and what was needed in 
order to confirm the details of his booking with the airline. 
I also note that Mr Hs emails to the agent soon after he discovers he has been charged 
twice back up his story that he was misled over the phone by it. Mr H seems surprised and 
shocked that he has ended up being charged twice for the same booking. He says that he 
never expected to pay for two trips and that he came to it simply to confirm the details for the 
booking he had made already.
I have also looked at whether the agent did actually provide a service to Mr H in any event. 
And I am not persuaded it has done. Mr H has maintained that the agent did not book any 
further tickets and simply reconfirmed the details of his existing booking (after he gave it the 
reference number). The evidence I have supports this. I note that the agent has forwarded 
on the information relating to the booking it says it confirmed for him however, the e-ticket it 
has attached has the exact same R1 reference as the one that was emailed to Mr H directly 
by the airline (which was also noted as an online rather than phone booking). There is 
another reference number on the agents cover invoice  but this appears to be its own 
reference number and doesnt show a new booking has been made. I also note that the 
ticket the agent indicates it reserved for Mr H has a section (when you scroll down) called 
Payment Information which confirms the payment date as 16/8/22  a day before Mr H says 
he spoke to the agent and a day before the Booking Date the agent has listed on its cover 
invoice (and a day before it charged him a separate amount). 
So it appears the agent had not actually made any new booking for Mr H and it simply 
forwarded on details of the booking he had already made the day before, charging him the 
exact same amount of money for that booking in the process. I know that it later says it 
cancelled the booking it made  but it has not provided any persuasive proof of this  such 
as confirmation from the airline directly. Mr H says he spoke to the airline and it told him only 
one booking (the one on the 16/8) was ever made  the original booking he ended up using. 
And in light of the evidence I have I find this more likely than not.
I dont see where the agent made it clear that it would be charging Mr H for simply confirming 
details of his booking or that it is contractually entitled to charge him what it has done here.  
Overall, it appears that it didnt really provide any services and appears to be in breach of 
contract. 
This service looks at cases on the individual circumstances  and based on what I have 
discussed to this point I am persuaded that the agent has likely misrepresented the contract 
with Mr H and/or breached it in any event. However, I also note that wider evidence about the agent points to Mr Hs story not being an isolated case  in fact there appear to be 
notable amount of cases documented online with the same or similar allegations of the agent 
under its current and former name presenting itself as a particular airline customer service 
and giving misleading information on the phone and not doing what it says it will. This would 
not have been difficult for AESEL to have found out either if it had looked into the Section 75 
claim. I think that while not fundamental to my decision  it is fair and reasonable for me to 
note these wider considerations when looking at what is most likely to have occurred in the 
individual circumstances here. I will ask the investigator to provide some of this information 
to AESEL.
Overall, I think that AESEL should have fairly considered Section 75 here, and looking at the 
evidence I consider it supports a likely misrepresentation and/or breach of contract by the 
agent. So I think it fairly should have upheld the claim.
I understand Mr H has received some money back from the agent to date. I understand this 
is £512 of the £1786.12 he paid it. With Section 75 in mind AESEL should fairly rework his 
credit card as if it had upheld a Section 75 claim for the remainder. If this results in a credit 
balance it should pay him 8% simple yearly interest on this from the date the credit balance 
arises to the date of settlement.
From what I can see AESEL closed and re-opened the claim several times and the dispute 
was considered from August 2022 for several months. In the circumstances (and for the 
purposes of my redress) the re-working should fairly be from 1 October 2022  which 
appears to be when AESEL had sufficient information to investigate and give its answer on 
the Section 75 claim.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to 
rework Mr Hs credit card as if it had refunded him £1274.12 on 1 October 2022. If this 
results in a credit balance it should pay him 8% yearly simple interest from the date of said 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
I asked the parties for their responses.
Mr H agreed with my decision but AESEL did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given me reason to depart from my provisional decision. Therefore my final 
decision is the same, and for the reasons already given (as copied above).
In the interest of completeness, I note in making my decision that the investigator did not 
send AESEL links to what I had seen online about the supplier. However, AESEL has not 
raised this and as I have previously noted in my provisional findings  this background 
information is not fundamental to my overall findings in any event.
Putting things right
AESEL should now put things right in accordance with my direction below.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to 
rework Mr Hs credit card as if it had refunded him £1274.12 on 1 October 2022. If this 
results in a credit balance it should pay him 8% yearly simple interest from the date of said 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
If AESEL considers it is required to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Mr H 
a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from HMRC, if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman