DRN-2022808
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. handled his travel insurance claim.
Ive referred to Mapfre and any agents acting on its behalf as Mapfre in this decision.
 
What happened
Whilst on holiday, Mr L was involved in a road traffic accident and experienced several 
injuries. He was admitted to hospital and Mapfre were notified of this. 
Mr L later complained to Mapfre about its handling of the claim. He thought it had delayed 
his repatriation to the UK. He was also unhappy about the customer service it had provided. 
Mapfre didnt agree that it had delayed Mr Ls repatriation, but it did accept that it had 
provided poor customer service. It offered Mr L £400 compensation for this. Unhappy with 
this, Mr L brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Mapfre had 
delayed the claim. However, he agreed that Mapfre hadnt handled the claim well, but he 
thought the complaint it had offered was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L thinks that Mapfre delayed his repatriation. He had been advised by his treating doctor 
that he was fit to fly, but Mapfre didnt arrange his repatriation for some time after this. He 
also says that, although Mapfre had tried calling the hospital several times a day, it had been 
advised to call before the attending doctor went on his rounds, which it didnt do. He thinks 
this contributed to the delays. 
Ive looked at the medical reports and I see that Mapfre attempted to contact the hospital 
nearly every day, and made several attempts throughout the day to speak to the treating 
doctor. It had been advised by Mr Ls family that it should call before midday, and it did make 
a note of this. I dont know the timing of all the calls, but I think Mapfre has shown that it 
made sufficient attempts to obtain the medical information it required. 
I can understand Mr Ls frustration that hed been told by his treating doctor that he could 
return to the UK, but then Mapfre didnt arrange his repatriation for some time. I see that 
Mr Ls daughter advised Mapfre on 16 May 2019 that her father had been told he could fly, 
yet the repatriation didnt take place until 30 May 2019. 
Mapfre says the reason for the delay was because Mr L had a pneumothorax (collapsed 
lung). It has explained the problems that flying can cause when someone has a 
pneumothorax, and so I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to want to be sure that this had 
resolved before it arranged Mr Ls repatriation. 
On 25 May 2019, Mapfre was told by the hospital that Mr Ls pneumothorax had been 
resolved. However, Mapfre wanted some more information about Mr Ls other injuries. It also 
had some concerns about whether sufficient investigations had taken place to confirm that 
Mr Ls pneumothorax had resolved. Then on 29 May 2019, the hospital advised Mapfre that 
Mr L had undergone a chest CT scan on 27 May 2019, and this confirmed there had been a 
complete resolution of the pneumothorax. Based on this information, Mapfre arranged the 
repatriation for the following day.
It wasnt until 29 May 2019 that Mapfres medical team was satisfied that enough 
investigations had taken place to show that Mr Ls pneumothorax had resolved and that he 
was fit to fly. Although the hospital had said on 25 May 2019 that Mr Ls pneumothorax had 
resolved, it did then arrange a further chest CT scan to confirm this. I understand this further 
scan was in line with what Mapfres medical team expected. This didnt take place until 27 
May 2019, and Mapfre werent advised of it until 29 May 2019. Consequently, I dont find 
that Mapfre caused unnecessary delays. 
Mapfre accepts that it didnt provide good customer service. Id agree. Although its medical 
team were regularly contacting the hospital for information, it didnt advise Mr Ls family of 
that. I think it shouldve made far more effort to update them about what was happening. 
Also, Mr Ls family asked if Mapfre could arrange a hotel nearer the hospital for Mrs L, which 
it agreed to look into it. This had to be requested two more times before Mapfre arranged 
this. Once the hotel was booked, Mapfre only booked it for 48 hours at a time, even though it 
thought Mr L would remain in hospital for much longer than that. That meant that Mr Ls wife 
and daughter had to keep asking Mapfre to extend the hotel stay, which caused them 
unnecessary inconvenience at an already worrying time.  
Mapfre has apologised to Mr L for its handling of the claim, and offered £400 compensation. 
Based on all the circumstances, I think that was reasonable. 
Mr L has said that Mapfre turned down his wifes claim for curtailment. This matter hasnt yet 
been considered or addressed by Mapfre. Mr L says that he and his wife have made a 
complaint to Mapfre about it, but havent yet had a response. If theyre unhappy with 
Mapfres response on the matter when they receive it, they may be able to bring a new 
complaint to this service. 
Mr L also says that the third party who caused his injuries has made a payment via their 
insurer to Mapfre, and he wants to check that Mapfre hasnt received more than it has paid 
out through the claim. Mr L should contact Mapfre directly to discuss this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Mapfre has paid 
reasonable compensation for its errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman