DRN-3034263
The complaint
Mr N would like to make a complaint on behalf of his father, the late Mr N, about a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy that he says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold to his late 
father.
What happened
The late Mr N bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Ns son disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding the late Mr Ns case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing, 
so Ill explain why. 
Mr N, says that his father, the late Mr N would not have taken out PPI, as he had adequate 
cover through his employment. However, Barclays has provided a copy of the late Mr Ns 
credit card application  and I can see on this that the PPI is presented as an optional 
product, with a choice to either take, or decline the PPI policy. The policy has been selected, 
and the late Mr N has signed the application. So, I think Barclays made the late Mr N aware 
that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to the late Mr N, which ,means that it needed to take extra 
steps to make sure that the policy was suitable, rather than just provide information, and it 
seems to have been right for the late Mr N based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time. 
The late Mr Ns son has said that Mr N had adequate cover through his work  but the 
amount of cover Mr N says that his late father had is different to what was provided to 
Barclays when it looked at the complaint, and theres no evidence to support this available. 
That said, even if the later Mr N did have the cover described, the policy couldve paid out on 
top of this, and the existing cover be used for other purposes.
Its possible the information Barclays gave the late Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he didnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account everything the late Mr Ns son has said, but these points dont 
change my conclusion, and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive
seen, the late Mr Ns credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates - so Barclays Bank UK 
PLC doesnt have to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and the 
estate of Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman