DRN-2843220
The complaint
Mr A says Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market lent to him irresponsibly. Mr A says 
he already had other short-term loans. He says that if Quid Market had made better checks it 
wouldve seen these and not lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about five loans Quid Market provided to Mr A between November 2017 
and September 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
LoanDate 
TakenAmount InstalmentsDate 
Repaid
1 02/11/2017 £300 3 09/02/2018
2 02/06/2018 £200 1 10/07/2018
3 12/07/2018 £700 6 10/01/2019
4 30/03/2019 £450 6 09/08/2019
5 10/09/2019 £1,000 6 20/03/2020
Before bringing the complaint here, Quid Market had made an offer to pay compensation in 
respect of loan 3. It thought that the information it gathered showed that Mr A didnt have 
enough disposable income to make the repayments to this loan. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Quid Market had lent 
irresponsibly when it approved loans 1, 2 and 4. He agreed that Quid Market should pay 
compensation for loan 3. And he thought it should have made better checks before 
approving loan 5. If it had done it wouldnt have lent to Mr A. 
Mr A didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion. Quid Market didnt respond to what the 
adjudicator said. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr A didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1, 2 and 4. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont comment in 
detail about this lending. I agree that these loans werent lent irresponsibly for the same 
reasons as the adjudicator. They were part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with Quid 
Market. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he 
took.
And Quid Market has made an offer to pay compensation for loan 3. Having looked at this I 
agree it is an appropriate way to resolve Mr As complaint about this loan. Ive included 
Quid Markets offer in my putting things right section below. 
Ive looked at loan 5 in more detail below. 
Whilst there were some shorter periods where Mr A wasnt making repayments to 
Quid Market the lending relationship was just under two years old by the time he applied for 
loan 5. And it was Mr As largest loan by a significant amount. 
So I think Quid Market couldve realised at that time that Mr A may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Quid Market shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough 
about Mr As true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr As financial situation And I think 
that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make sure Mr A 
was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Quid Market did this. So, I need to think about what Quid Market wouldve seen 
if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr A has provided some information about his financial circumstances, such as his bank 
statements and a recent credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly what Quid Market 
wouldve seen at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.This shows that Mr A was borrowing and repaying a significant amount from other lenders. 
And the repayments he would need to make, at the same time he was repaying the 
Quid Market loans, were significant. 
I think that Quid Market wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Quid Market wouldve seen Mr A wouldnt have been able repay loan 5 in 
a sustainable way. So, I think that Quid Market shouldnt have given loan 5 to Mr A and I 
think hes lost out as a result of this. Im upholding Mr As complaint about loan 5.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had not approved loans 3 and 5, as Im satisfied it shouldnt.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quid Market shouldnt have given Mr A loans 3 and 5.
A) Quid Market should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Quid Market should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Quid Market should pay Mr A the total of A plus B.
D) Quid Market should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr As credit file 
in relation to loans 3 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to deduct tax from this interest. Quid Market 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
Stagemount Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman