DRN-3384347
The complaint
Mr L has complained that, when he transferred money from the United Kingdom to the 
United Arab Emirates using HiFX Europe Limited, trading as XE (XE), deductions were 
made from the amount that he sent. 
What happened
Towards the end of 2021, Mr L decided to transfer £8,000 from the UK to his account in the 
UAE.  He arranged the transfer through XE.  But, when the money arrived, he found that 
AED30 (just over £6) had been deducted from what was sent.
Mr L contacted XE for information about the transfer to find out why, and by whom, hed 
been charged.  XE provided a document which showed theyd transferred the full amount  
which didnt answer Mr Ls question.  So he raised a complaint.
XE investigated Mr Ls complaint and wrote to him with their findings.  They confirmed theyd 
not made any deduction from what hed sent.  But they explained that fees may be deducted 
during the transfer process, either by the receiving bank or by intermediaries.  XE said this 
may have happened in Mr Ls case but that wasnt something they could control.
To resolve the complaint, XE said they would reimburse Mr L for the fees that had been 
incurred.  Two days later, they sent Mr L £6.04.  And in subsequent emails, XE said theyd 
set Mr Ls account to absorb any transfer costs going forward.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with XEs response and brought his complaint to us.  He told us he 
thought XE should be able to show him exactly how his money was transferred and at what 
point charges had been deducted.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and concluded XE didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  He was satisfied from the evidence he saw that XE hadnt deducted any fees 
from the amount Mr L transferred.  And he said the terms and conditions made available to 
Mr L made it clear that other banks in a transaction may deduct fees - which XE had no 
advance notice of and over which they had no control.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view, as he was still unhappy about what he 
describes as a lack of transparency about fees.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from everything Ive read that Mr L feels there may be wider consequences of the 
lack of transparency he thinks exists in XEs processes.  While I understand what hes said, 
my role is to make a decision about whether XE made any mistakes in how they dealt with 
his transaction  and, if they did, what they should do to put that right.  I cant make a 
decision about XEs general business practices.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied XE treated Mr L fairly.  They accepted his instructions to 
transfer money to the UAE.  And they didnt deduct any fees from the money Mr L sent.
As our investigator explained, we cant usually hold XE responsible for any deductions made 
by another party.  But I have thought about whether XE made Mr L aware other banks may 
make a charge for their part in the transfer.
Ive read the information made available to Mr L about the transfer.  I think that makes it 
clear that, while XE doesnt deduct any fees, the recipient bank, or an intermediary, may do.  
XEs terms refer to this.  And in XEs help section, theres a question Why did less money 
arrive than I sent  was a fee taken?  The relevant part of the answer says:
Sometimes the recipients bank or an intermediary can add a fee or charge which is 
then deducted from the amount received by your recipient. They dont inform us if they do 
this so we cant let you know in advance.
If youd like more information about any charges imposed, we suggest asking the receiving 
bank for an incoming MT103, which is a payment document that contains details of the route 
the money has taken.
Ive seen that XE tried to assist Mr L in finding out what had happened.  They provided him 
with their own MT103, which showed the money had left them without any deductions being 
made.  They reminded him that, for full details, hed need to contact the receiving bank.  And 
theyve refunded him the deductions on this transaction and have said theyll absorb any 
future costs - both as gestures of goodwill.  
Im satisfied the charges Mr L incurred werent the result of any mistake by XE.  So I dont 
think they need to do any more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about HiFX Europe 
Limited, trading as XE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman