DRN-3138106
The complaint and background
Mr D has complained about TSB Bank Plcs decision to withdraw his overdraft. He says he 
wasnt told that TSB would be removing the facility. He also says that when he got in touch 
with TSB after the overdraft facility had been removed TSB refused to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with him and instead defaulted the account and passed it to a debt collection 
agency.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint. He said that TSB had written to Mr D to 
advise him of what was happening with his overdraft, and so felt that TSB was entitled to 
withdraw the overdraft when it did and therefore it hadnt treated Mr D unfairly. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
Looking at Mr Ds account statements I can see that in January 2020 he made a payment 
which used up his entire arranged overdraft limit of £1,000. Over the following months 
overdraft interest was applied each month, taking him over his overdraft limit, and he would 
usually make a payment shortly afterwards to bring his account back within his overdraft 
limit. 
In May 2020 Mr Ds account went over its overdraft limit, but he didnt make any payment to 
bring it back into the arranged overdraft. Ive seen copies of the letters that TSB sent to him 
on 3 May and 12 May 2020 to advise him that his account had gone over its limit and that he 
needed to take steps to rectify this, or get in touch with TSB if he couldnt repay the overlimit 
balance. Mr D says he didnt receive these letters. 
Because TSB didnt hear from Mr D it wrote to him again on 7 July 2020 to say that as the 
overlimit balance of the account hadnt been rectified, it would be removing Mr Ds overdraft 
limit. Mr D got in touch with TSB on 15 July 2020, he said he hadnt been aware that his 
overdraft limit was going to be removed. TSB explained that it may be able to put a 
temporary overdraft limit in place if Mr D agreed a repayment plan. Mr D has said that the 
only repayment plan offered was for £100 per month, and that he couldnt afford this, so no 
repayment plan was agreed.
Because no agreement could be reached to reduce the overdrawn balance, TSB took steps 
to default the account and pass it to a collections agency. 
Looking at everything that happened here, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly. I 
appreciate that Mr D says he didnt receive the letters that TSB sent to him, but those letters 
were sent to the correct address that TSB held on file for him. On this basis, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for TSB to remove Mr Ds overdraft limit when it did, it had taken 
appropriate steps to contact him and had no reason to believe that its letters hadnt been 
received by Mr D.
And when TSB did speak to Mr D I think it offered appropriate assistance. TSB offered a 
repayment plan to Mr D, but Mr D said he couldnt afford this plan. I understand that the 
repayment plan may have been higher than Mr D could afford, but we wouldnt expect a 
lender to keep an account open with an overdrawn balance (which would continue to incur 
overdraft interest) when there is no prospect of that overdrawn balance being repaid in a 
reasonable period of time. As Mr D couldnt afford to repay the balance within a reasonable 
amount of time, a reasonable course of action on TSBs part was to take steps to default the 
account  hence stopping any further interest from being applied  and to move the account 
to its recoveries department or a collection agency where a more affordable plan could be 
agreed. This is the kind of action we would expect a bank to take in these circumstances.
I do sympathise with what Mr D has told us. I fully appreciate hes gone through a difficult 
time and understand why hes unhappy with adverse information being recorded on his 
credit file and worried about the impact this will have on him. But while I appreciate that 
withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information might be viewed 
negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in relation to the 
overdraft debt. And asking TSB to reinstate the overdraft here when it seems unlikely Mr D 
will be able to repay this debt in a reasonable amount of time would arguably be 
counterproductive and not in Mr Ds interests or that of any future lender. A credit file is 
intended to show a true and accurate reflection of a borrowers ability to service their debts, 
and Mr D has said himself that he is only able to make minimal payments to reduce the 
overdrawn balance of this account. 
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that TSB was entitled to withdraw Mr Ds overdraft 
and that it was then entitled to take action to default his account when Mr D confirmed he 
couldnt repay the overdrawn balance. So I dont think that TSB treated Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably. And this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman