DRN-3348049
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has placed an unfair valuation on his 
vehicle following it being stolen.
What happened
Mr F had a motor insurance policy with Covea. When his car was stolen, he made a claim 
for this under his motor insurance policy.
Covea initially valued Mr Fs car at £42,595 but he was unhappy with this figure and disputed 
it. Covea completed an evaluation and increased its offer to £43,312.66. Mr F didn't think 
this was enough and provided adverts to Covea showing similar vehicles at higher prices. Mr 
F felt as his car had added extras, it should attract a value of around £69,000.
Covea didn't increase its offer, and so Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought Covea's valuation was fair and in line with our approach and so didn't 
recommend Mr F's complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed, he feels his car is worth at 
least £50,000 and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr F that Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. I'll explain.
Mr F's policy says that it will settle a total loss claim for the market value. The policy defines 
market value as:
the cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, 
specification, age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the 
loss or damage you are claiming for. Where we are unable to estimate the market 
value of your vehicle we will use the nearest market equivalent for comparison.
Mr F has told us he would have expected the car to have attracted a value of at least 
£50,000 based on the condition of the car and upgrades it had.
My role is not to value Mr F's car, but to make sure Covea has settled his claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with his policy terms.
Our approach to assessing the fair market value takes into account what the motor trade 
guides say the market value is. The guides are based on extensive research of what's 
happening in the market at the time and are a good reflection of the true market value of the 
vehicle.
Covea engineers took into account trade guides and originally offered Mr F £42,595. It then 
revised the offer to £43,312.66 after reviewing it again. I know Mr F feels strongly about the 
value of his car, it's condition and the added extras it had. But I have to tell him although, at 
new, added extras can be expensive the amount paid for these doesn't mean a comparable 
increase in the market value.
I can see from the checks carried out on the trade guides, they returned values of: Parkers 
£40,870; CAP £41,580; Glass's £42,990 and Cazana (now known as Cazoo) £45,702. 
Covea has provided evidence to show the added extras did not increase the market value of 
the vehicle.
So, the range of values is £40,870  £45,702. As Covea's offer is within this range I'm 
satisfied it placed a fair valuation on Mr F's car and has settled the claim in line with the 
policy terms.
My final decision
for the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman