DRN-2372166
The complaint
Mr S in unhappy how Now4cover Limited has handled the administration and cancellation of 
his home insurance policy when the insurer went into liquidation. 
What happened
Now4cover arranged a residential home insurance policy on 7 April 2019. However, on the 
24 May 2019 Now4cover wrote to Mr S and informed him that the insurer it had placed the 
policy with had gone into liquidation.
Now4cover has said it found out the insurer had gone into liquidation on 20 May 2019 and it 
was unaware of the insurers financial situation at the time it arranged the policy. 
Mr S is unhappy he couldnt cancel his policy immediately when he was notified of the 
situation and get a full refund and feels this is the fault of Now4cover for placing his policy 
with the insurer it chose.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Now4cover hadnt shown us that it had 
followed the due diligence checks expected by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
therefore she recommended Now4cover to refund the difference between the full premium 
and the amount already refunded to Mr S by the FSCS and add interest at 8% simple per 
annum from the date the premium was paid to the date of settlement.
The business hasnt responded further so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Now4covers regulator, the FCA expects it to carry out due diligence on the insurers it 
chooses to place its business with, this is to see if an insurer is in financial trouble.
Our investigator asked Now4cover to provide evidence of these checks being completed and 
although it responded it didnt respond to all the points. 
The FCA says a broker needs to:
Disclose the name and address of the insurer in their customer literature
Ive seen that the name of the insurer is disclosed in the policy document and the terms of 
business confirms the insurers address.
Evidence now4cover looked at the insurers Solvency and Financial Condition 
Report, which they are required to publish under Solvency II. 
Now4 cover has given some information in relation to this however, it hasnt provided
documentation/system information to show when it carried out the last review in 2018 and it 
hasnt disclosed the solvency coverage percentage discovered during the last review.
Check the FCA Register to see whether an insurer has passported in on a branch 
or a services basis. This will give brokers an indication of where the home state 
regulator is and therefore who is responsible for their supervision and oversight. If the 
insurer is overseas, this should be flagged with the customer.
No response or evidence received on this point.
Evidence it asked to see the audited accounts of insurer and the date the last check
happened.
No response or evidence received on this point.
UK firms and firms passporting in on a branch basis are automatically covered by us. 
Firms that passport in on a services basis can elect to come under our services 
Voluntary Jurisdiction.
I can see the insurer was a Voluntary Jurisdiction participant. So, this check has been met.
Finally, our investigator asked if now4cover had used the British Insurance Brokers 
Association (BIBA) facility that helps brokers with its due diligence when placing insurance 
with an unrated insurer. No response was received on this point.
Based on the information provided, Im not persuaded that Now4cover has demonstrated 
that the checks they did were adequate and in line with the FCA guidance. I therefore uphold 
this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Now4cover should refund the difference between the full premium and 
the amount already refunded to Mr S by the FSCS. To this amount, interest must be added 
at 8% simple per annum from the date the premium was paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Now4cover Limited to refund the difference between the 
full premium and the amount already refunded to Mr S by the FSCS. To this amount, interest 
must be added at 8% simple per annum from the date the premium was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman