DRN-2196597
The complaint
Miss B complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Provident) lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld in part with 
an additional four loans being upheld. A copy of the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss B took 7 loans with Provident between August 2009 and November 2017. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below (loan 1 and
loans 6 to 11).
Loans 2  5 were provided by a different entity within the Provident group.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £150 15/08/2009 Written off
2 £200 24/05/2012 26/09/2012
3 £300 24/09/2012 19/12/2012
4 £400 26/11/2012 Written off
5 £500 14/12/2012 Written off
6 £200 22/09/2016 21/12/2016
7 £400 15/12/2016 07/06/2017
8 £100 07/06/2017 11/08/2017
9 £1,500 07/08/2017 outstanding
10 £500 01/09/2017 outstanding
11 £2,000 15/11/2017 outstanding
Miss B also took out four loans with Provident Personal Credit (trading as Greenwood
Personal Credit Limited) - loans 2 to 5 in the above table. Because Provident was part of the
same group as Greenwood, we think that Provident shouldve been aware of any
Greenwood loans that Miss B had taken. These loans will be only referenced in this decision
when speaking about the lending history. I want to be clear that I make no finding, in this
decision, as to whether Greenwood was right or wrong to have provided these loans.
When Miss B complained to this Service there was still an outstanding balance that needed
to be repaid for loans 9, 10 and 11. It appears the outstanding debt for these loans has been
sold to a third party to collect.
Provident has also confirmed to this Service that the principal and interest for loan 1 has
been written off - so I understand this loan is not outstanding.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint. He didnt think there were any
concerns about the Provident lending until 15 November 2017 - when loan 11 was lent. The
adjudicator didnt think Provident shouldve lent this loan as he considered the weekly
repayments were a significant proportion of Miss Bs income and likely to be unsustainable.
Provident agreed with the assessment. In line with the adjudicators recommendation, I
understand it has already removed all interest, fees and charges from the loans balance
and treated the repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of
principal. From what Provident has told us, there is still an outstanding capital balance to
repay after the refund was applied. In addition, Provident has agreed to remove any adverse
information about this loan from Miss Bs credit file.
However, Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. She made a number of
points including:
further loans were provided after loan 1, even though the loan was still outstanding;
Provident has agreed that loan 1 shouldnt have been lent and has taken it back from 
the third party;
Miss B didnt have enough disposable income to be able to afford any of the loans.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website. Having thought about all of this, Im intending to uphold
more loans than the adjudicator recommended.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks in order to figure out
whether Miss B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts and Miss Bs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Provident should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.So Provident was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss B
could sustainably make her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the
case.
When loans 6 to 11 were lent, The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory)
had set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if
they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or
ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments
without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.
loan 1
Miss B didnt make any payments of principal or interest for this loan. And these amounts
have now been written off by Provident. So, there no longer an outstanding debt to repay.
This was quite a modest loan (£150) and with no previous lending history I wouldnt expect
Provident to have checked more than Miss Bs income and expenditure. Its unclear what
information Provident did obtain for this loan or what proportionate checks wouldve
revealed. But Provident has now written off all the debt and as Ive indicated above, this is
more than wed expect a lender to do if wed decided an error had been made. So, there is 
nothing further I can ask Provident to do for this loan.
loans 6 to 11
Being part of the same group, Provident ought reasonably to have been aware of the four
loans sold by Greenwood Personal Credit Limited between May and December 2012. What 
this means is that it shouldve known that Miss B had experienced significant repayment 
problems with the last two Greenwood loans. Indeed, from what Ive seen Miss B had repaid 
less than half the principal for each loan and therefore over £1,200 was sold to a third party 
in July 2013.
Provident would also have been aware that no repayments at all had been made towards
loan 1.
So despite the break in lending between loans 5 and 6, I think the history of significant
repayment issues meant that it wasnt reasonable of Provident to have relied on what Miss B
told it. After all, shed been unable to repay a modest loan over a number of years and also
had two other (higher value) loans that shed been unable to repay. It seems that Miss Bs
circumstances hadnt improved since loan 1. So instead, I think Provident needed to gain a
full understanding of Miss Bs actual financial position to ensure loan 6 was affordable and
she would be able to sustainably repay it.
Provident couldve gone about this several ways, such as asking for evidence of outgoings,
asking Miss B about short-term loans she had outstanding, or looking at Miss Bs bank
statements. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there
was any other information that Provident mightve needed to consider about her general
financial position.From what I can see when loan 6 was lent Miss B had at least one other short-term loan
outstanding, indicating that she still appeared to be relying on high cost credit. Taken
together with the significant problems Miss B had in repaying previous loans (indeed, many
of those loans still had outstanding principal due), in my view Miss B was unlikely to be able
to repay loan 6  or any of the subsequent loans - in an affordable and sustainable way.
Indeed, Miss B then had further repayment problems towards the end of this chain of
borrowing, which supports what Ive said above about these loans.
Im therefore intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 6 to 11. And Ive set out
what Provident should do to put things right as detailed below.
I understand that following the adjudicators assessment Provident has already reduced Miss
Bs outstanding principal balance by the payments that she has made towards loan 11. But
itd be helpful in response to this provisional decision if it could confirm whether or not this
has been done.
It may help if I explain our approach to putting things right for a consumer. If a business has
made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we decide something has
gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer should be put back into
the position they wouldve been in had the error not been made. However, that is not always
possible especially in cases that involve lending money.
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. So normally, wed
expect the consumer to have to repay at least this sum. This is why, in such cases, we ask
the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, for example interest and
charges. We also direct an additional interest payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of
use of the funds. The consequences of what we do is that it effectively provides the
consumer with an interest free loan. And in this case, I havent seen anything to make me
think we need to depart from our normal approach.
It appears that Miss B has paid significantly less than the principal for loans 9 to 11 so its
likely she will still have an outstanding balance to pay after Provident has carried out my
proposed redress. But as Ive explained above, because Miss B has had the benefit of the
sums lent, its fair that at least this is repaid for loans 9 to 11. But I would remind Provident to
treat Miss B fairly when discussing a way forward where an outstanding balance remains.
I think it would also be fair for any adverse information about loans 6 to 10 to be removed
from Miss Bs credit file.
For loan 11, I think Provident should remove the entire loan entry from Miss Bs credit file -
this is because the period of time Miss B owed money means that any information still
recorded about this loan is adverse. Loans 6 to 10 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss
Bs debt indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended period of
time. And the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on her
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Provident though doesnt have to remove the entry until the loan is repaid, although any
adverse information should be removed.
So, Im intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 6 to 11. And Ive set out what
Provident should do to put things right as detailed below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both Provident and Miss B didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional 
decision. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional 
decision. I therefore still think Provident was wrong to have provided loans 6 to 11 and Ive 
outlined below what it needs to do to put things right.
 
Putting things right
If Provident has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If it isnt able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise with
the new debt owner to achieve the same results:
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 6 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges for loans 6 to
8 from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
for loans 9 to 11, the payments made by Miss B for these loans should be treated
towards the principal balance (for loan 11 where this may have already taken place);
If the repayments Miss B has already paid (to both Provident and the third party)
exceed the principal for these loans, then any overpayment should be refunded to
Miss B. To this overpayment 8% simple interest a year should be added from the
date of the overpayment to the date of settlement*
If there is an outstanding balance still due for loans 9  11 then the refund for loans 6
to 8 can be used to offset the balance. If an outstanding balance still remains then I
would remind Provident that it should treat Miss B fairly and try and come to a
mutually agreeable repayment plan;
remove any negative information from Miss Bs credit file about loans 6 to 10;
any information recorded about loan 11 is adverse because of the period over which
Miss B owed money. So, all the entry about loan 11 should be removed. But
Provident doesnt have to do this until loan 11 is repaid. Any adverse information
though should be removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident must
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Miss Bs 
complaint.
Provident Personal Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman