DRN-3672281
The complaint
Mr B complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a legal expenses insurance 
claim.
References to Amtrust include actions of its agent who handled the claim.
What happened
Mr B held legal expenses cover through a home insurance policy from around 
February 2017.
He made a claim in 2021 to pursue his employer and provided details to Amtrust.
It was apparent from the information that Mr B was claiming unfair treatment since 
2016 and he evidenced these as diary entries hed been keeping since that time. 
Shortly after, Amtrust indicated that the dispute pre-dated the policy start date and so 
wouldnt be covered.
Notwithstanding, Amtrust asked for further information which Mr B provided and 
again Amtrust advised Mr B that as the series of events started before the policy it 
wasnt covered and advised him of his option to use the legal helpline and to check 
whether he previously held legal expenses cover for the period before his Amtrust 
policy.
Mr B asked Amtrust to reconsider its decision saying that his claim was only for 
events that started in 2019.
Ultimately, Amtrust maintained its decision but during its review asked for information 
from Mr B that hed already provided.
Amtrust offered Mr B £100 compensation for the delay in reviewing its decision given 
it asked for information it already had.
Our investigator considered the three months it took Amtrust to deal with the matter 
and thought £200 compensation was more appropriate. But she didnt think Amtrust 
had affected the prospects of Mr Bs claim.
Amtrust accepted what the investigator said but Mr B feels £3,000 compensation is 
fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy is clear that cover is for insured events that take place in the period of insurance, 
which in Mr Bs case is from February 2017 when his cover started. And insured event is 
defined as the incident of first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under [the 
policy]. Only one insured event shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, 
incidents or events that related by cause or time.
Im satisfied the unfair treatment Mr B complains about, and so the subject of his proposed 
claim against his employer, pre-dated the start of the policy. I say this because Mr B set out 
the details of his proposed claim as treatment for a number of years which I hold all 
records in my diary from 2016 to date. He provided a list of events hed recorded in a diary 
from before the policy start date to substantiate his proposed claim.  And in addition, a letter 
from the employer to Mr B explaining the outcome of a grievance appeal included reference 
that Mr B had raised concerns about managers and colleagues from 2014. As such, Im 
satisfied Amtrust fairly declined cover on the basis that Mr B provided evidence the first 
series of incidents began before his policy.
I understand Mr B says the events had nothing to do with his later complaint, but Im not 
persuaded. Hes been clear throughout that the unfair treatment he experienced began in at 
least 2016 when he started recording incidents.
Amtrusts handling wasnt efficient, and I accept what Mr B says about how frustrating he 
found it in having to supply information that hed already sent. This delayed the finality of 
Amtrusts claim handling process although it was apparent from early on that Amtrust had 
made its position on the outcome clear. Because Amtrust had been consistent from early on 
with reasons as to why Mr Bs claim wasnt covered, the impact of the poor handling was 
limited. Im satisfied £200 fairly reflects the inconvenience and frustration caused.
Putting things right
Amtrust must pay Mr B a total compensation award of £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr B £200 compensation 
(less any amount it has already paid).
Amtrust must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman