DRN-4359183
The complaint
Mr F complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his claim 
under his mechanical breakdown motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F wanted Red Sands to repair his cars gearbox under his policy. But Red Sands  said 
the gearbox problem wasnt covered by the policy as the gearbox hadnt suffered sudden 
mechanical breakdown. Red Sands thought the gearbox problem was more likely due to 
wear and tear. Mr F complained to Red Sands , and then to us. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Fs complaint be upheld. She thought Red Sands  
had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms. Mr F didnt agree and so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess how damage to a car has been caused as this is a matter for the experts in 
these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision not to pay under a warranty for repairs. We look at all the available 
evidence - including anything provided by the consumer, the insurer, and the repairer. 
Ive looked at Mr Fs policy. It covers mechanical breakdown which is defined as the failure 
of a mechanical or electrical component, causing a sudden stoppage of its function, for a 
reason other than deterioration or negligence. 
The components ( or parts) covered by the policy include, amongst others, the clutch and 
gearbox. The policy says on page five, under the heading 'What is not covered' that the 
warranty does not cover "Wear and tear or the gradual reduction in performance due to the 
age and mileage of the vehicle". Wear and tear is defined as the expected or gradual 
reduction or deterioration in performance or function of a component due to the vehicles age 
and/ or mileage and/or usage. 
These terms are commonplace in warranty policies, and I think the terms were clear, and not 
unreasonable. By taking out the policy Mr F had agreed to them.  
Mr Fs cars clutch had failed and Red Sands paid for its repair then under the policy. Mr F 
said that after he got his car back from the garage it had a problem with its gearbox which 
hadnt been there before. Mr F thought that the gearbox problem must have been due to the 
clutch failure and so Red Sands should repair the gearbox too. 
Mr Fs garages technician thought that the gearbox problem could have been caused by the 
clutch issue, but couldnt confirm that, and noted that the gearbox parts were worn. Red 
Sands said this meant that the gearbox problem was more likely due to wear and tear and 
that there wasnt enough evidence to say that the clutch failure and the gearbox problem 
were linked. There was no conclusive expert evidence either way.  Mr F felt he shouldnt be 
disadvantaged because of that. He felt that the two problems must have been linked, as the 
gearbox problem hadnt been there before.  
But Red Sands said that the gearbox problem still wasnt covered by the policy, even if there 
were a connection between the clutch issue and the gearbox problem, and even if the 
gearbox problem hadnt been caused by wear and tear. This was because the gearbox 
hadnt failed causing its sudden stoppage of its function. Mr F had got it back from the 
garage after the clutch repair and noticed the gearbox problem a short time later. During this 
time, despite the gearbox problem, his car had still been driveable and had done about 600 
miles. Thats not to suggest that Mr F did anything wrong by driving the car. It just shows that 
the gearbox hadnt suddenly failed causing its sudden stoppage, and it was still working, 
although not working properly, after the clutch was repaired. There was no sudden stoppage 
of the gearbox. 
I realise it must be distressing for Mr F to have these problems with his car, and I think that 
Red Sands could have been better at explaining to him earlier why they were declining his 
claim. But I cant say that it was unfair of Red Sands to decline it. As it hasnt been shown 
that the gearbox failed causing it to suddenly stop to function, the gearbox problem wasnt 
covered by the policy. For that reason, I wont be asking Red Sands to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
