DRN-3304051
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited rejected his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr S purchased a suite from a retailer and used his Amex card to pay a 
deposit of £366.40. 
When the item was delivered Mr S discovered that after sitting on it, an imprint was left 
which was of a different colour to the original fabric. This left patches on the fabric, making it 
look worn.
Mr S reported the issue to the retailer, who arranged for someone to inspect the suite. Mr S 
says the inspector verbally confirmed that there was an issue with the fabric but said it would 
be difficult to get the supplier to put things right. As a gesture of goodwill, the supplier offered 
to steam the suite, but Mr S didnt think this would resolve the issue and declined.
Mr S wasnt able to resolve things with the supplier and it later went into administration, so 
Mr S raised a section 75 claim with Amex.
Amex asked Mr S to obtain an independent inspection report. Mr S did so and provided the 
report to Amex. The report stated that there was an inherent fault with the fabric which 
caused marking and discolouration.
Amex reviewed the report but rejected the section 75 claim. It said there was no evidence 
that the supplier had accepted responsibility for the issues with the fabric or that it intended 
to issue a refund to Mr S. Amex also said that the suppliers terms and conditions said that it 
wasnt responsible for characteristics or variations of natural materials. Amex said that 
because Mr S had been provided with a swatch of the fabric before he purchased the suite, 
he had the opportunity to make an informed decision as to the fabrics suitability for his 
furniture. Amex also said that even if the fabric did have a defect, Mr S had refused the 
remedial action offered by the supplier.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was persuaded that the fabric had been 
misrepresented, because its characteristics hadnt been brought to Mr Ss attention. She 
also thought that the fabric might not have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The 
investigator said that Amex should refund Mr S the cost of the sofas and arrange for the sofa 
to be collected at no cost to Mr S.
Amex didnt agree. It said that based on Mr Ss comments about the first inspection arranged 
by the retailer, no inherent faults had been found. It said the offer to steam the sofa was not 
made in relation to a finding that there was a fault with the fabric. It said that although the 
second inspection stated that there was an inherent fault, no explanation had been provided 
as to the cause of the fault, and there was no evidence that the fabric was from a faulty 
batch. Amex said that because the second inspection report was more than two years after 
the point of supply, it was unable to say whether the issues were due to an inherent fault or 
wear and tear. It also said that the wording provided with the fabric swatch contained a 
warning that there could be variations in colour and slubbing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Amexs response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into 
an agreement.
There have been two inspections of the suite. The report from the first inspection isnt 
available, so Im unable to comment on it. Its not in dispute that, following the first 
inspection, the retailer offered to steam the fabric. Im unable to say whether the first 
inspection identified a fault. Mr S has said that the inspector told him that there was an issue 
with the fabric. Amex has said that theres no proof of that, and no evidence that the retailer 
accepted responsibility for the issues. The absence of the report means that I cant attach 
very much weight to either partys account of the first inspection.
The second inspection found that the fabric had an inherent fault. It stated that a textured 
fabric has a correct direction of pile which, if brushed in the incorrect direction, should brush 
back. The inspector stated that the fabric on Mr Ss sofa didnt return to its natural pile 
direction, and that the act of siting on it or touching the fabric left a permanent impression 
and mark. The report includes photos showing the marking on the fabric.
Based on the findings of the second inspection report, Im persuaded that there was an 
inherent fault with the fabric. I think its more likely than not that the issue was present at the 
point of supply because Mr S reported it to the retailer straightaway. I havent seen anything 
to suggest that the issue was caused by wear and tear.
Ive taken account of all of the points made by Amex. I wont comment on every one but only 
those which are most relevant to my decision.
Amex has said that theres no evidence to show that the retailer accepted responsibility for 
the issues with the fabric. I dont think this is a relevant point, because it isnt a requirement 
of section 75 that a supplier accepts responsibility.
Amex has referred to the retailers terms and conditions which say that every effort is taken 
to ensure that the products supplied correspond as closely as possible to samples, but that 
they may vary due to unique characteristics or variations of natural materials. Amex has said 
that the absence of any documents describing the fabric means it cannot be determined 
whether Mr S was advised of any characteristics of the material.
Theres no evidence that the issues with the fabric are a characteristic. The second 
inspection report is very clear that theres an inherent fault with the fabric, because it doesnt return to its natural pile direction as it should. Im persuaded that this goes to the satisfactory 
quality and fitness for purpose of the material, as opposed to characteristics of the fabric. 
And based on the findings of the report, I dont think the suite was of satisfactory quality 
because of the inherent fault with the fabric.
Amex has said that Because Mr s had a sample of the fabric, he had the opportunity to make 
an informed decision as to its suitability for his suite. Ive looked at the swatch and Ive also 
looked at the wording which accompanied it. It says that the fabric might exhibit minor 
shading variations and slubbing.
Ive thought about this but having regard to the inspection report and the photos, I dont think 
the fault with the material can be described as minor. The information provided with the 
swatch doesnt suggest a level of marking to the extent that Mr S has experienced. I dont 
think a reasonable person, when provided with the swatch and the wording, would expect to 
experience issues as significant as those highlighted in the photos of Mr Ss suite. And I 
dont think its fair to say that Mr S should have known that the fabric was going to change in 
colour and texture simply from looking at the swatch. The size of the swatch wasnt big 
enough for a person to sit on, so there was no way Mr S couldve been aware of any 
potential changes in the fabric caused by its use as a covering for a sofa.
Amex has said that because Mr S didnt accept the retailers offer to steam the sofa, it isnt 
possible to say whether this wouldve remedied the issue. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that steaming the fabric would resolve the issue  and in the fact of the inspection 
report which states that the fabric has an inherent fault, I think its unlikely that steaming the 
fabric wouldve made any difference.
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that there was an inherent fault with the 
fabric. This means that the suite wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, which is 
a breach of contract.
Putting things right
To put things right, Amex should refund Mr S the total cost of the suite and arrange to collect 
the suite at no cost to him. Alternatively, if Mr S wants to dispose of the suite himself, Amex 
must refund Mr S any costs of disposal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
must take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman