DRN-3406989
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays when transferring a shareholding out of his Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) with Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing to a new 
product provider.
What happened
Shares for a company I will call CNEL were to be delisted from the Alternative Investment 
Market (AIM) and relisted on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKSE). Mr R held some of 
these shares in his ISA and as IWeb didnt trade on the HKSE he asked for them to be 
transferred to a new product provider.  
The transfer of shares was taking a long time and so Mr R complained to IWeb who 
apologised and paid £100 for the service received. The matter remained unresolved so Mr R 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Whilst the complaint was with us the transfer of shares took place. IWeb issued their final 
response to the complaint offering another £100 for the service they had provided. Mr R 
remained unhappy with what happened so one of our Investigators looked into things.
Our Investigator thought that IWeb had completed the transfer without any delays and that 
any issues with the time taken were because of the new share registrar. Overall they didnt 
think that IWeb had done anything wrong.
Mr R disagreed with this providing more information about his complaint and why he was 
unhappy with what happened and with what IWeb had said and done. Our Investigator 
considered this and also sought further clarification from IWeb. Having looked at the extra 
information from both sides our investigator came to the same outcome. Because Mr R and 
our Investigator couldnt come to an agreement the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr R that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mr R as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint which is about delays in transferring the 
shares.
In their final response IWeb provided Mr R with a timeline of events that explained why the 
transfer wasnt possible until 17 November 2022. Our Investigator has also provided a lot of 
information around the detail of what happened. As Mr R as seen all of this I wont go into 
detail about each event myself.
Having looked at what happened, including all the information provided by both parties, Im 
persuaded that IWeb were following their procedures for the transfer and they didnt cause 
any unnecessary delays during this time. Theres no doubt that the CNEL relisted quickly on 
the HKSE but IWeb needed to follow their processes using their international custodian in 
order for the shares to be transferred, and this is what caused the delay.
I agree this was a very long process and took longer than might be expected. However its 
not my role to tell a business what processes and procedures they should implement. So 
whilst the time it took was understandably frustrating for Mr R I havent seen that IWeb made 
any mistakes which led to the delays. And once the transfer was possible, I think it was done 
in a reasonable time frame. 
IWeb sent Mr R some correspondence in September 2022 which caused some confusion, 
and I can see why. 
Mr R says he had an online webchat with IWeb in the months before the transfer took place 
where he was told that it would be a simple matter. IWeb dont have a record of this webchat 
and understandably Mr R doesnt either. This is because Mr R wouldnt have had reason at 
the time to doubt anything he was told, and its seemingly not possible for a customer to 
save the contents of a webchat. 
Its unfortunate that IWeb dont have a record of this so I cant see what was said. I can see 
Mr Rs frustration with this however I have no reason think that IWeb would be deliberately 
withholding this information if it was available. But this means I cant see what was said, 
though I dont doubt Mr Rs recollections.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the extra £100 is a fair 
compensation for what happened. I know Mr R will be disappointed with this however I think 
IWeb acted fairly and reasonably during the process of the transfer and that the total of £200 
is a fair way of resolving the complaint.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr R £100 for the 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman