DRN-2401792
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with what Qmetric Group Limited (trading as Policy Expert) did when he 
took out legal expenses insurance cover with it and what it did after he contacted it about a 
potential claim on that policy. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr N took out home insurance through Qmetric. The cover included free legal 
expenses insurance. The following year he called Qmetric as he was unhappy with the 
renewal price for the insurance. The adviser was able to offer cover at a price Mr N was 
happy with and the policy renewed. During the call the adviser outlined what the legal 
expenses insurance covered. 
Mr N called to discuss the cost of his insurance at subsequent renewals and was again able 
to agree a price he was happy with. Legal expenses insurance continued to be included with 
his policy as a free add on. 
In 2020 Mr N contacted Qmetric as he had a potential employment dispute and was 
unhappy to learn his policy wouldnt cover this. He says he was told at renewal his policy 
would cover all types of problems and he didnt agree employment claims werent covered. If 
that was the case he said there should be a specific exclusion for this and he should have 
been told about that. He thought he should have been offered cover that would cover 
employment disputes. He also raised concerns about the service that had been provided by 
the legal helpline the policy offered.  
Our investigator didnt think Qmetric had done anything wrong in advising Mr N his policy 
didnt cover employment disputes. And she didnt think Qmetric told him that would be the 
case. Although it did offer a policy that provided more cover (for a higher cost) she thought 
Qmetric was right to say that wouldnt cover a pre-existing dispute. And she didnt think we 
could consider Mr Ns concerns about the legal helpline. Mr N didnt agree. So I need to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about whether Qmetric was wrong to tell Mr N his policy wouldnt cover 
employment disputes. Ive looked at the policy terms and I can see that on page 4 this sets 
out what the policy covers. It says We will pay for the following insured events
The policy goes on to set out what those are:
Personal injury
Consumer disputes
Home rights
Identity theft
Employment disputes dont fall within any of those headings and arent listed separately as 
an insured event. I appreciate within each section the policy does then go on to set out what 
is not covered. But that narrows the cover provided by the policy as it relates to an insured 
event. In order to be covered at all one of those insured events needs to have taken place. 
And it hasnt in this case because employment disputes arent listed. So I dont think Qmetric 
did anything wrong in telling Mr N that.  
Mr N recalls being told by Qmetric his policy would cover all types of problems. But I dont 
think thats right. Ive listened to the call between Mr N and Qmetric when they discussed his 
first renewal in 2017. During that call the adviser outlined the cover the legal expenses 
insurance provided which included the insured events set out above. Ive also seen copies of 
the policy summary relating to the legal expenses insurance which Qmetric provided to Mr N 
when renewing his policy. Again that explains what insured events are covered by the policy.
Ive also listened to the other calls Mr N had with Qmetric. Its clear his focus during these 
calls was on the price he was paying for his home insurance and whether he could retain 
home emergency cover. The legal expenses policy was a free add on to Mr Ns home 
insurance and Qmetric didnt suggest it would cover everything (or that it would cover 
employment disputes). 
Under the relevant rules Qmetrics responsibility was to provide Mr N with clear, fair and not 
misleading information about what his legal expenses insurance covered. I think its done 
that. If, having reviewed that information, Mr N was unhappy with the cover offered by his 
policy then it would have been open to him to seek an alternative; Qmetric do offer a policy 
that would cover employment disputes (for an increased cost). But as he didnt do that prior 
to a problem arising at work, I think Qmetric were right to tell him that the alternative policy 
was unlikely to be off assistance to him. Thats because it doesnt cover disputes someone 
was aware of at the point they take the policy out.
I appreciate Mr N is also unhappy with the advice he was given by the legal helpline. I can 
see hes raised those concerns with the solicitors who operate the helpline. But that helpline 
isnt something that Qmetric is ultimately responsible for. Mr Ns insurer (which is a different 
business to Qmetric) is responsible for the legal helpline provided as part of his contract of 
insurance with it. 
In any case I note at least some of Mr Ns concerns seem to be that the helpline would only 
provide general administrative advice and wouldnt, for example, write letters for him. 
However, providing that level of support for an individual claim goes beyond what, in my 
experience, a legal helpline like this could reasonably be expected to provide. 
But if Mr N does nevertheless have outstanding concerns about the service provided by the 
helpline that would be something his insurer would need to consider. Im not clear if he has 
raised those concerns with his insurer but it isnt in any event something I can consider as 
part of a complaint against QmetricMy final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman