DRN-1622386
The complaint
Ms G complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) undervalued her car when she 
claimed on her insurance policy after her vehicle was stolen.
What happened
Ms G had motor insurance with CIS. Unfortunately, in September 2019, Ms Gs car was 
stolen, so she put in a claim.
CIS accepted the claim and assessed the pre accident valuation of her car to be £28,000. 
But Ms G didnt think this was fair and she complained.
CIS didnt uphold her complaint. It advised that it had used three different motoring 
databases to value her vehicle. 
Ms G remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. In particular, she 
noted the following:
Shed had work done to her vehicle prior to the theft, adding a roof rack and 
upgrading the lights and grill. 
Vehicles of a similar age and mileage cost between £30,000 and £35,000 - so its not 
possible to replace her vehicle for the settlement price.
Her policy defines market value as The cost of replacing the car with another of the 
same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately 
before the loss or damage happened.
After checking the value of Ms Gs vehicle using the motor-trade guides, our investigator felt 
the settlement CIS had offered was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed so 
the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms G has been a victim of theft. I want to reassure Ms G that Ive carefully 
considered the points shes raised when reviewing the case. But having done so, I think 
CISs valuation is fair  Ill explain why. 
Motor valuation is not an exact science. When I consider this type of case I look at the 
motor-trade guides, along with any other supporting evidence to see whether I think the 
insurers valuation is reasonable.
I can see in this case CIS used different motor-trade guides when deciding the value of 
Ms Gs car. And this is something Id expect them to do. The motor-trade guides use 
nationwide research of likely selling prices based on the age, mileage, specification, model 
and condition of the car on any specified date. The price we use from these guides is a retail 
figure (how much the car would usually sell to a customer for), rather than a trade price 
(the price a dealer would pay before adding mark-up). And this more fairly reflects the price 
an average customer would likely pay. Taking this into account, Im satisfied these tools offer 
valuations in line with the policy definition of market value here. 
Having independently checked three of the main guides, the highest value given was 
£24,416  which is lower than the price CIS offered. So based on the guides, the settlement 
it offered seems fair.
Ive considered the evidence Ms G has sent us in the form of advertisements for similar 
vehicles. And I agree these are more expensive. But Ive noted all of the adverts are for 
vehicles from 2014 or later, while Ms Gs vehicle was from 2013. So, I dont think these can 
be fairly compared. Its also not uncommon for the advertised price to be higher than the 
seller might expect to receive, to allow room for negotiation.
Ive also thought about the fact Ms G had recently had some work done to her car. But the 
motor-trade guides Ive reviewed also indicate these upgrades wouldnt have impacted 
valuation. Its my understanding that unless the car has significant alterations, its unlikely to 
make any substantial difference to the vehicles value. 
Ms G told our service shes unable to replace her vehicle for a similar one with the 
settlement offered. And shes stressed that the relevant policy term states she should be 
paid the amount it would cost to replace her vehicle. So, she doesnt think its fair to rely on 
the motor-trade guides. But the guides give a good indication of how much it would have 
cost Ms G to buy a similar car at the time at which hers was stolen  which is in line with her 
policy term. And Ive seen nothing which indicates the guides are inaccurate such that it 
would have been unreasonable for CIS to rely on them.  
Overall, I think CIS provided a fair valuation in accordance with the motor trade guides and I 
dont think it did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman