DRN-2234530
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited didnt send him the correct notices of 
assignment, when his account was transferred to them.
What happened
Mr H had an account with a credit card company. In the summer of 2017, the credit card 
company sold that account to Hoist, who took up the responsibility to collect repayments 
from Mr H. When the account was sold, the credit card company sent Mr H a notice to tell 
him what was happening. Shortly afterwards, Hoist also sent a notice to Mr H, to introduce 
themselves and to ask him to contact them about making payments.
Hoists records show that Mr H made monthly payments to the account until late 2018 and 
that they havent received any repayments since then. Around the time the repayments 
stopped, Hoist sent Mr H a letter to say that as part of a restructure, they had assigned 
Mr Hs account to a different company, but still within their group. That letter was sent from 
the new company in Hoists group.
Over the next five months Mr H and Hoist exchanged various letters. Mr H said that he 
wasnt given notice, from the company who had bought his account in 2017, to say they had 
sold his account on. So, he says that he shouldnt have to make payments to the new 
company. Hoist continued to ask Mr H for repayment of the account. Mr H didnt accept this 
and complained to Hoist.
In their final response, Hoist said they correctly notified Mr H, that they had assigned his 
account to a new company within their group. They said they are entitled to ask Mr H, to 
repay the outstanding amount owed on the account and gave him a month to talk to them, 
about his repayment proposals.
Dissatisfied with Hoists response to his complaint, Mr H brought his case to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and explained that we cannot make a finding on 
the enforceability of the debt, as that would be for a court to do. Instead, he found that the 
account Mr H was being asked to repay, belonged to him and that Hoist had kept him 
informed about how he should continue with repayments. The investigator concluded that 
Hoist had treated Mr H fairly.
After considering the investigators findings, Mr H said that he didnt accept them. He said 
that Hoist needed to have sent the correct notices of assignment to him, to be able to collect 
the outstanding balance of the account. The investigator didnt change his conclusions and 
Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Mr Hs case has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve complaints made by 
customers about financial businesses, by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Although we do take account of applicable law and 
regulations, we also consider the overall situation. 
So, it is possible that a court would reach a different outcome to the decision that we make 
on a complaint. It would be for a court to determine whether or not Mr Hs agreement with 
Hoist is enforceable, so I havent considered that in any detail. But I am able to consider 
whether or not Hoist has acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with Mr H.
the account holder
Within the documents Hoist have sent to us, they have provided notes from Mr Hs original 
application to the credit card company. These notes show information such as Mr Hs full 
name, date of birth, address, employer, salary and his current account details. 
Hoist sent Mr H a letter in August 2017, to say that the credit card company had sold the 
debt to them. Some of the relevant information in this letter, matches the details used in 
Mr Hs original credit card application. So, I think Hoists letter refers to the same account 
held by Mr H, with the credit card company.
Mr H had also responded to Hoists letter of August 2017, by making arrangements to make 
monthly repayments to the account, via a debt recovery agent. These repayments were 
made until December 2018, when Mr H questioned another letter sent to him by Hoist. So, I 
think by repaying the debt, Mr H was aware of the account and understood he was repaying 
a balance from that account.
In October 2018, Hoist sent Mr H a further letter to tell him that they had transferred his 
account to another company within their group. This letter has the same account information 
as the credit card application and that of Hoists letter of 2017. So, I think the account 
referred to by Hoist in 2018, is the same as the account Mr H took out with the credit card 
company.
In this further letter, Hoist explained that any repayment plans will remain in place. The 
account statements show that Mr H continued to make payments under his agreement, for a 
further two months, from the date of Hoists letter. So, I think Mr H understood that the 
balance of his account was still outstanding and that he had been asked to maintain his 
monthly repayments.
I think Mr H acknowledged the transfer of the account from the credit card company to Hoist 
in August 2017. And I think he was satisfied to make payments to Hoist. The further letter 
from Hoist in October 2018, carries the same account information. Having considered all the 
evidence and what each side has told us, I think the account belongs to Mr H and he was 
aware of the account and the balance he was being asked repay.
the notices sent to Mr H
Mr H has told us that he acknowledged the transfer of the account from the credit card 
company to Hoist in 2017. So, I dont think theres a dispute over the notice Hoist sent to him 
at that time.
Hoists notice of assignment letter to Mr H in October 2018, wasnt from the company named 
on the assignment letter a year earlier. Because of this, Mr H says he wasnt notified by the former owner of his account. Mr H also says that this means theres no onus on him to 
maintain payments to the account.
Ive concluded that we cannot decide if the agreement Mr H has with Hoist is enforceable. 
But, Ive also concluded that the account at the crux of this complaint, belongs to Mr H. I 
think Hoists letter of October 2018 told Mr H how to service the account which was 
previously held with the credit card company. So, regardless of which part of Hoist the letter 
came from, I think Mr H was told what to do, to continue to repay the balance he owed on 
the account. And, since he understood the account to be his, I think it follows that he was 
treated fairly, in that Hoist made it clear what was happening with his account.
In all the circumstances, I think Hoist have treated Mr H fairly, so I dont think they have to do 
anything to put things right. I think Mr H was given the correct information about where his 
account was placed and that the account belonged to him. So, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Hoist to talk to Mr H about the repayment of the account.
But, I remind Hoist that they should treat Mr H positively and sympathetically, when looking 
to reach an affordable repayment plan with him, for the balance owed on the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman