DRN-2757190
The complaint
Miss G complains that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance, 
(PPI), policy. Although it didnt actually sell the insurance to Miss G, its been agreed 
that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for the sale. For simplicity 
Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Miss G took out a store card in May 1997. Some two months later her PPI policy 
commenced. The cost of this was not more than one pound a month for each £100 
outstanding on Miss Gs store card account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss G 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive followed this in making my decision in Miss Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Miss Gs recollection is that the store assistant persuaded her to take out the PPI. I dont 
doubt that this is what Miss G remembers about the sale. But, because of the time that has 
passed, I dont think that I can fairly rely just on what she recalls. AXA has told us that the 
policy was sold over the phone. And, as it commenced several weeks after the store account 
was opened, I think that that is likely that the sales were made at different times.
This being the case, I think that Miss G knew that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because Miss G already had the store account when she took out the 
insurance. And, in the absence of any evidence of AXA having said something during the 
phone call to the contrary, I find that it would have been clear that taking it was not a 
condition of getting the credit.
Because the sale was so long ago, Im not sure that I have a copy of the actual policy 
terms that applied to Miss Gs card. But Ive considered the policy terms of the same 
insurers that were used for the same store cards nearest the time of this sale. I think that it 
is reasonable to assume that similar terms would have been likely to have applied to 
Miss Gs policy.
Miss G says that AXA advised her to take the policy; it says that it didnt. If AXA had 
recommended the policy to Miss G, it would have had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it was suitable for her. Knowing what I do about Miss Gs circumstances at the time of 
the sale, and by reference to the policy terms to which Ive referred earlier, I find that it 
was suitable. I say this because:
Miss G was likely to have been eligible for the PPI;
Miss G wasnt likely to have been affected by any of the policys main limitations 
and restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
Miss G has told us that she was entitled to three months or less sick pay from her 
employer. And that she had less than three months savings. Following a successful 
claim, however, the PPI would likely to have paid out 15% of Miss Gs store card 
balance a month had Miss G not been working because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. And the payments would likely to have been made until 
Miss G returned to work, or until her balance had been settled, whichever occurred 
first. They would also have been paid out in addition to any to any other monies 
Miss G had or was entitled to. So I think the PPI could have been of use to Miss G;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss G couldnt afford the premiums. In any 
event, had she later felt that she no longer wanted the PPI or that it was 
unaffordable for her, Miss G could have cancelled it at any time without further cost, 
as it was paid for monthly;
Whether AXA advised Miss G to take the policy or not, it still had to give her clear, fair 
and not-misleading information about the PPI so she could make an informed decision as 
to whether it was suitable for her needs. I dont know what other information AXA gave 
Miss G during the sale. But as Ive found that the policy could have been of use to Miss G 
I dont think clearer information would have changed her mind and stopped her taking it.
So I find that Miss G hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done 
wrong during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
As Ive said, I thought about everything Miss G has told us about her complaint, 
including that she was unsuccessful when she tried to make a claim on the policy. As 
this complaint is about whether the policy was mis-sold, I am not required to look into 
why the claim failed. And Im satisfied that one failed claim of itself doesnt mean that 
AXA didnt sell the policy correctly to Miss G. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman