DRN-1257984
 
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs T are unhappy about the delays while Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Halifax) dealt with their buildings insurance claim. Mr D and Mrs T had buildings insurance 
with Halifax. For ease, I will refer only to Mr D throughout my decision.
What happened
A lorry hit and damaged the boundary wall to Mr Ds home. The driver admitted fault and Mr 
D reported the incident to both Halifax and the police. Halifaxs contractor inspected the 
damage and its report recommended the repairs needed. Halifax repaired the boundary wall 
within two months but it didnt finalise the claim to recover costs from the third partys 
insurer. Mr D felt its delay in dealing with his claim and returning his policy excess was 
unacceptable so he complained to Halifax. 
Halifax said it wasnt at fault for the delays in finalising the claim. It explained that it was 
dealing with the third partys insurer and its request for the return of Mr Ds excess was a 
matter of goodwill. However, Halifax paid Mr D £50 in compensation for its delay in dealing 
with his complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy with the length of time it was taking to finalise the claim.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. She looked at how Halifax had 
tried to recover the excess from the third party insurer and whether it couldve done more. 
She noted that Halifax had contacted the third party insurer on three occasions, showing that 
it was actively trying to recover the excess. Our investigator accepted what Halifax said 
about the policy being there to protect Mr D against an insured event and that recovery of 
the policy excess isnt an insured event. As Halifax had repaired the damage she felt it had 
fulfilled its obligations.
Our investigator was pleased to note that Halifax had acknowledged it couldve dealt with Mr 
Ds complaint in a timelier manner. She thought that its payment of £50 was appropriate to 
address that shortfall.
Mr D didnt agree. He explained that his complaint isnt about settlement for the damage. His 
complaint is that Halifax hasnt finalised a simple claim or paid back his excess.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D said but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.Mr Ds complaint isnt about the settlement of his claim for the damaged boundary wall. He 
remains unhappy about the time it is taking for Halifax to finalise his claim. I understand that 
by this he means the time it is taking for Halifax to recover his policy excess from the third 
party insurer. As he feels all other aspects of the matter are irrelevant, I will refer to the claim 
itself only for context.
Mr Ds buildings insurance with Halifax covers him for insurable events. The damage to his 
boundary wall was the insurable event and his policy covered his claim. Halifax repaired the 
wall and Mr D was responsible for paying his policy excess regardless of who was at fault. In 
this instance, the third party accepted liability so Halifax was able to pursue the third partys 
insurer for recovery of its own costs in repairing the wall. 
This process means that insured events involving a third party are handled without further 
inconvenience to the policyholder  their property is repaired and the issue of cost recovery 
is dealt with afterwards. In this case, Mr Ds wall was repaired at no cost to him after 
payment of the policy excess. Halifax had settled his claim. 
As part of its own cost recovery process, Halifax also asked the third party insurer to return 
Mr Ds policy excess. From this point, Halifax cant control the situation. It has made three 
requests to the third party insurer for reimbursement of costs, including Mr Ds excess. After 
each request it must allow an agreed length of time for the other insurer to respond. This 
means it cant chase more often than it is and it wont necessarily have any updates for Mr D 
when he calls. I can see that in its communication with Mr D, Halifax confirmed that recovery 
can take a year. So while I can understand that its frustrating for Mr D to have to wait, Im 
satisfied that Halifax cant do any more than it already has to recover his excess. For that 
reason, I dont think Halifax has caused delays in finalising the claim and returning the policy 
excess.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman