DRN-2543691
The complaint
Mr T complains that he didnt receive his Nottingham Building Society Annual General 
Meeting voting papers in time to vote.
What happened
Mr T says he didnt receive the Nottingham Building Society Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
papers in time to allow him to vote at the 2020 AGM. He says that he would like Nottingham 
Building Society to pay a gesture of goodwill of £100 and values his ability to be able to 
exercise his voting rights. Mr T says he did eventually receive the voting pack but some time 
after the ability to vote had passed.
Nottingham Building Society says its records say the voting pack was sent to Mr T on 25 
March 2020 and says it uses a third-party company to send the packs. It says it doesnt have 
a record of a returned item and in those circumstances doesnt accept making a mistake and 
will not make a gesture of goodwill payment.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was evidence the voting pack was sent and didnt think that Nottingham 
Building Society was responsible for any mail delays. The investigator also thought it up to 
Nottingham Building Society to decide which third party company to use to send the voting 
packs to its members.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and maintains that he was prevented from exercising his right 
to vote and maintains he should receive a gesture of goodwill payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nottingham Building Society has dealt 
fairly with this complaint. And I cant fairly order it to pay a gesture of goodwill to Mr T when I 
dont think there is any evidence it has made a mistake.
I have looked at Nottingham Building Society records and Im satisfied Mr Ts voting pack 
was sent to him. I cant fairly hold Nottingham Building Society responsible for what then 
took place as it is not involved in the delivery of the mail. I can see the pack was eventually 
received by Mr T, but I cant fairly conclude that delay was due to anything Nottingham 
Building Society did or didnt do.
I cant fairly conclude that Nottingham Building Society has made a mistake or acted unfairly 
and so I cant order it to pay the £100 compensation Mr T would like. Nottingham Building 
Society has made clear it will not make a gesture of goodwill payment which I think is up to it 
to decide.
Overall, I appreciate that Mr T lost his ability to vote and that is something he values being 
able to do. But I cant see that was due to a mistake made by Nottingham Building Society. 
And I also think its up to it to decide, when exercising its commercial judgement, which 
company it uses to process the sending of the voting packs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman