DRN-3652658
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited trading as Autonet Car Insurance
(Atlanta) unfairly applied an additional premium to her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A bought her motor insurance policy through a comparison website. When asked if 
she had made any claims in the past five years, she confirmed that she hadnt. Atlanta 
subsequently reviewed the information on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database and identified two non-fault claims recorded in 2017. This information was added 
to the policy, which increased the premium and an administration charge was applied.
Mrs A says these entries relate to notifications only. There was no claim and no payment 
made by her previous insurer in relation to these incidents. She says before taking the 
additional premium, Atlanta told her if she provided information to support this, the additional 
premium wouldnt apply. However, Atlanta took the additional premium despite her sending 
proof from her previous insurer.
Atlanta says the CUE database shows two non-fault claims recorded in 2017. This wasnt 
declared when the policy was taken out, which is why an additional premium was added 
when this was identified, along with the administration fee. Atlanta says that notification 
only claims are recorded as non-fault  and insurers take this information into account 
when assessing risk and setting premiums.
Mrs A didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He thought Mrs A had shown the CUE database only held records 
relating to notifications in 2017. He asked for a copy of the CUE information Atlanta had 
referred to, but it didnt provide this. Our investigator thought it likely that Atlanta had made a 
mistake and should refund the additional premiums and administration charge plus interest.
Our investigator says Atlanta should also pay Mrs A £100 compensation for the poor service
that resulted in upset and inconvenience.
We didnt receive a response from Atlanta, so the matter has been passed to me to provide
a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs 
As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Atlanta has provided a screen shot of some of the questions Mrs A was presented with 
when she applied for her policy. This includes the following:
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years, no matter who 
was at fault or if a claim was made?
An information box is positioned next to this question and provides some more detail. It 
says:
Insurers need to know about all claims and incidents in the last 5 years even if it wasnt 
your fault or you were driving a different vehicle.
In her complaint Mrs A says that the additional premium Atlanta added, relates to two 
claims from 2017. But she says they werent claims they were just notifications that she 
was expected to disclose under her policy terms.
I dont dispute Mrs As understanding that she didnt think these incidents were claims. 
But I do think the question she was asked was clear that all incidents should be disclosed.
Mrs A has provided emails from her previous insurer that relate to these two incidents. The 
insurer confirms, in both cases, that the incidents are notification only, no claim was made 
by either party and no costs were incurred.
In its complaint response Atlanta says the two non-fault claims that werent disclosed 
meant an additional premium of £89.02 was added to Mrs As policy, along with an 
administration fee for £14.95.
In an email to Atlanta in March 2020 Mrs A says that she appreciates that a person who 
has more accidents will be considered a higher risk. But she says that having a door hit in 
a parking lot cant reasonably mean she presents a higher risk to her insurer.
I understand Mrs As view that the incidents she notified her insurer of were relatively 
minor and she feels aggrieved that her insurance premium increased because of this. 
However, insurers do increase premiums for notification only incidents that are recorded 
on CUE. This is because it indicates to an underwriter that a claim is more likely to occur 
in future. Atlanta says this is what happened here.
Were not the industry regulator and its not for our service to determine what is 
considered a risk or how insurance premiums should be calculated. We expect customers 
to be treated fairly, but its accepted that all information including incidents those Mrs A 
reported, will be disclosed to an insurer so it can assess the risk involved in providing 
insurance.
I understand Mrs A wasnt expecting her premium to increase once her policy had gone 
live. But I do think the question she was asked during the application process meant she 
should have disclosed these incidents. When this omission was identified the premium 
was adjusted to represent the additional risk posed.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A. She clearly has strong views that Atlanta treated her unfairly. 
But having considered all of this I dont think it behaved unreasonably by applying an
additional premium and administration charge. This is because Mrs A was asked to 
disclose all incidents from the past five years when taking out the policy. So, I dont think 
the additional premium was added incorrectly or that the administration charge shouldnt 
apply in these circumstances.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Atlanta didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider.
Mrs A responded to say she is disappointed with my findings. She says she ticked the box 
indicating no incidents or claims when making her application because she was told by her 
previous insurer that notification only incidents will not impact on her premium.
Mrs A says she has searched for insurance quotes on a number of comparison websites. 
She found that there is a difference in the premium quoted when declaring incidents/claims. 
But she says having been assured that notifications only will not increase her premium she 
didnt think this was something she need declare.
Mrs A says Atlanta should honour the advice she was given by its agent over the phone in 
February 2020. This is when she was told to provide proof of the notification only incidents, 
and the additional premium wouldnt then apply. 
Mrs A says she cant be expected to know what will impact on her insurance premium. Or 
how information is recorded on the CUE database and other systems. She says she was 
assured by her previous insurer she was doing the right thing. And asks how she was 
supposed to know that her next insurer wouldnt follow the same rules. 
Mrs A says Atlanta shouldve allowed her the option to cancel the policy with a full refund 
minus the time on cover. She says the fact she was asked to provide the records relating to 
notification only incidents shows Atlanta has the flexibility to have acted differently in this 
instance. She says it just decided she wasnt worth it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs As comments regarding her previous insurer and her understanding that 
the notification only incidents she had reported shouldnt impact on her premium. 
In my provisional decision I explained that all incidents, whether they are notification only or 
classified as claims, will be considered by an insurer when assessing the risk of providing 
insurance cover. 
I dont dispute what Mrs A says about the information provided by her previous insurer. But I 
do think the questions Mrs A was asked when applying for her policy were clear. This gave 
her instructions to declare any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past five years even if 
it wasnt her fault or she was driving a different vehicle. 
The information box supporting this question also confirmed Mrs As response must include 
all incidents from the past five years. I think it was clear from this that the incidents that 
occurred in 2017 shouldve been disclosed during Mrs As insurance application. This is 
irrespective of what her previous insurer told her. 
Following a phone call with Atlantas agent Mrs A provided information to confirm the 
incidents from 2017 were classed as notification only. But the additional premium wasnt 
removed when she provided this information. I can see that Atlanta apologised to Mrs A in 
an email in March 2020 that its agent had mismanaged her expectations. But it explained the 
additional premium was applied correctly.I understand that Mrs A found this to be frustrating. But for the reasons already stated, it was 
her responsibility to provide accurate information in her application. I think it was reasonable 
for Atlanta to have offered an apology for mismanaging her expectations. But this doesnt 
alter my decision that the additional premium was applied fairly.
I have thought about Mrs As comments that Atlanta couldve decided to refund the 
additional premium and/or allow the option to cancel. However, I dont agree that Atlanta 
shouldve done so in these circumstances. The issue arose as a result of Mrs A not 
providing the information asked of her during her insurance application. Because of this I 
dont think its been shown that Atlanta behaved unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman