DRN-2669358
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc wont accept she has been the victim of identity 
theft.
What happened
Mrs D says she didnt take out a loan in 2001 in her previous name. She says that she thinks 
her former daughter in law did this. And she is unhappy that she was contacted by collection 
agents after she moved back to this country having been abroad from 2005 to 2019. She 
thinks that this has affected her credit record.
Santander said that it does hold Mrs D responsible for the loan. It had an application form 
from 2001 and although it couldnt now say who received the money when the loan was 
drawn had received no evidence that this was other than Mrs D. Repayments had been 
maintained for a period, but then the loan defaulted, and it had passed this to collection 
agents and then sold it to a third party.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs D said she had been 
living at the address on the loan application form. But that her former daughter in law would 
have had all the details needed to make the application. And she suspected her because the 
address on the loan was changed in 2011 to one that had been connected to her daughter in 
law. That was the time when Santander had registered the default. Mrs D had no evidence 
to support what shed said including her claim that her grandson had been subject to a 
similar identity theft by her daughter in law. So, our investigator didnt think Santander had 
made a mistake. And she said that a default wouldnt be shown on her credit record after six 
years.
Mrs D didnt agree and said she was appalled by what wed said and was going to take legal 
advice. She maintained that she had never taken the loan out and she wanted to see proof 
of where the money had gone as she didnt receive it. She hadnt been known by her 
previous name when at the address given on the application form  and had never lived at 
the address used from 2011 and said that this could be checked on the electoral roll. She 
wanted this escalated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording of a call Mrs D had with our investigator. She has seen a copy of 
the application form for the loan from Santander. And she accepted that it had a good 
likeness to her signature and that she had lived at the address listed. This application form 
was dated from 2001 and there is now no further information about the checks made.       
Mrs Ds position is in any event that someone close to her could have had all her personal 
information and been able to pass these checks anyway.
Given the time that has passed since the loan was taken out there is limited further 
information about it. So, I dont know where payments from the loan were made  or who 
made repayments. But I do have a list of all the transactions. This was a flexible loan and 
drawn down in several stages. Repayments to the loan were made as required from 2001 to 
2011 when the loan passed to collections. And based on Santanders case notes any 
correspondence went to the original address until mail was first returned in May 2011. It was 
only after the loan had passed to collections that the other address was added in August 
2011. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely 
based on what Mrs D and Santander have said and provided. It seems unlikely to me that a 
fraudster applying for the loan without Mrs Ds knowledge wouldnt draw the loan down as 
fast as possible. And then having done so why repayments would be maintained for over 
nine years. While I can understand why the address connected to Mrs Ds daughter in law 
seems highly material to her  that was only applied after payments had stopped. I cant see 
why a fraudster would have done this. And its possible that only have happened through a 
tracing agent.
Mrs D hasnt provided any more evidence to support her thinking that there was fraud 
including about her own address and movements over this period. I know shes reported the 
matter to the authorities. Ive no reason to think she wasnt out of the country for a period 
and thats entirely consistent with an agent tracking her down when she returned. I 
understand her distress at then being contacted in this way. But Im thinking about whether I 
have grounds to find Santander made a mistake and that Mrs D is the victim here of identity 
theft. I know she is going to be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a basis to think 
that she most likely was. As a result, I consider Santander was entitled to hold her 
responsible for this borrowing and to register a default when payments werent maintained. I 
know how disappointed Mrs D will be by my finding.
This debt is now held by a third party and Mrs D would need to contact it about repayment. 
Santander has confirmed that the default it registered will no longer be visible on Mrs Ds 
credit record. Mrs D has said she is thinking about legal action and if she doesnt accept my 
decision she is free to pursue this but subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman