DRN-2278033
The complaint
Miss C complained about two personal loans that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 
118 Money provided to her in 2016 and 2017. She says the loans were unaffordable and 
that 118 118 Money lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss C was given two loans by 118 118 Money. The first loan in July 2016 was for £3,000. 
This was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £233. The total amount 
payable, including interest was just over £5,600. The loan was settled with a balancing 
payment in November 2016.
The second loan in December 2017 was for £1,500. Loan 2 was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just over £149. The total repayable, including interest was around 
£3,581.
One of our adjudicators had looked into Miss Cs complaint. She thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided either of the loans to Miss C. 118 118 Money accepted what the 
adjudicator had said about loan 2. But it didnt agree with her assessment of the first loan. 
So the complaint passed to me to resolve the matter.
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint. The 
rules and regulations required the lender to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Miss C could afford to repay her loans in a sustainable manner.  I 
explained that 118 118 Money needed to undertake borrower focussed checks. The lender 
had to think about whether repaying the loans would cause any difficulties for Miss C and it 
had to consider the impact of any repayments on her.
I explained that the lenders checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of 
the loan application and that these checks could take into account a number of different 
things. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship. Ive kept all of this in mind when 
thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed to before lending to Miss C.
118 118 Money carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Miss C. This included 
asking for details of her income and expenditure and acquiring a credit report. 118 118 
Money says that, based on the information Miss C provided and what it found in its checks, 
there was nothing to suggest that she wouldnt be able to afford the first loan.
But in the circumstances, I didnt think the checks 118 118 Money carried out for loan 1 were 
reasonable or proportionate. 
118 118 Money was aware from its credit report that Miss C had a number of outstanding 
loans from other lenders when she applied for her loan. The lender says there was nothing 
concerning about Miss Cs credit report and even when her existing credit commitments 
were taken into account, the loan was still affordable. But this was an expensive loan, 
repayable over two years and the rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not 
being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit - relative to the customers financial situation.
Taking things in the round, I thought 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have seen that 
Miss C had regularly been taking unsecured personal loans in the months leading up to her 
first loan application even though it appears there was no clear allowance for any 
expenditure on these credit commitments on Miss Cs loan application data. I thought the 
lender should have looked into this further. Given the amount being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the length of the loan term, I thought 118 118 Money should reasonably have 
taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Miss Cs financial position - in order to 
satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan, over an extended 24-months period.
Overall, I was not persuaded that the checks that 118 118 Money carried out before 
agreeing to the first loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Miss C provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied for 
the first loan. Different checks might show different things but Miss Cs bank statements 
shows she was regularly borrowing from at least two other short-term lenders. I thought if 
118 118 Money had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I thought its 
likely it would have discovered that Miss C was having difficulties managing her finances.
118 118 Money says that as Miss C paid off some of her outstanding loans the day after 
taking her loan from 118 118 Money, this would have given her more disposable income with 
which to meet her loan repayments. However, I thought that 118 118 Money was focussing 
on its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Miss C on a pounds and pence 
basis. I explained that the lender was required to establish whether she could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I said that loan payments being affordable on this 
basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their 
repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Miss Cs loan application record suggests she took the first loan for car purchase or repairs 
but she says she took the loan to repay other short-term lenders as she was in a debt spiral. 
And as 118 118 Money had noted, Miss C did indeed pay off a number of other loans the 
day after taking her loan from 118 118 Money . So it seemed most likely that she was 
borrowing to keep up with her ongoing financial commitments.
I thought 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have realised that Miss C was having some 
difficulty managing her financial problems. And that it was likely she would need to borrow 
elsewhere to repay her loan from 118 118 Money. I thought the lender ought reasonably 
have realised that it was unlikely that Miss C would have been able to sustainably repay loan 
1. So I thought 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to her.
As 118 118 Money had already accepted the adjudicators assessment that it was not 
appropriate to have provided the second loan to Miss C, I said I did not need to consider the 
second loan any further, except for what needs to happen nextDid 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss C told us that having taken the second loan, she had difficulties meeting her financial 
commitments and she entered a debt management plan. 118 118 Moneys statement of 
account suggests the debt was written off. Miss C says her debt was eventually sold to a 
debt recovery company. I hadnt been provided with further details about what happened. 
But I hadnt seen anything which made me think that 118 118 Money failed to treat Miss C 
positively and sympathetically at the time. So I didnt think that 118 118 Money acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. The deadline for any 
further comments has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both Miss C and 118 118 Money for all the information they have 
provided in this matter, all of which I have taken into account when coming to my final 
decision.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I dont think 118 118 Money was right to provide Miss C with loan 1 and 118 118 Money has 
already agreed it shouldnt have provided loan 2. So it should now put things right.
Putting things right
If 118 118 Money sold any outstanding debt payable in respect of Miss Cs second loan, it 
should buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so, and then take the following steps. 
If 118 118 Money isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
118 118 Money should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything that has already been refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C for loan 1, from 
the date the payments were originally made, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss C as though they had been repayments of the principal on this 
loan. If this results in Miss C having made overpayments then 118 118 Money should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 118 118 Money 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 2. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss C. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 118 
118 Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with her bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions.E) 118 118 Money should remove any adverse information about loans 1 and 2 from Miss 
Cs credit file. If 118 118 Money has sold the outstanding loan it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. 118 118 Money does not have to remove the outstanding loan 
from Miss Cs credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest and provide Miss C with a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she requests one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman