DRN-2944085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1995.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy in 1995. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The 
business has told us that a successful claim would have paid out 60% of their income or 
£1,000 per month, which ever was less, for up to 12 months at a time if Mr or Mrs F were 
unable to work through accident, sickness or if they were made redundant. The benefit 
would have been split equally between Mr and Mrs F. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken them into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I explain why below.
Its maybe not surprising that neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs F have any documentation from 
the sale, considering that it happened in 1995, over 26 years ago. Businesses are not 
obliged to keep their documentation indefinitely. I have seen a welcome letter dated 12 June 
1995 that includes the schedule of cover that Mr and Mrs F had agreed to. But I have no 
documentary evidence from the point of sale to consider. But where there is limited 
information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely happened, taking into 
account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about 
these types of sale. I must also give some thought to the way the passage of time can affect 
the accuracy of recall from events that happened over 26 years ago. So, having considered 
all the submissions I have received in this case, considering how long ago the sale was, and 
in the absence of any detailed testimony from Mr and Mrs F to the contrary, I think its more 
likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and that they 
chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many years later. 
 
Lloyds recommended that Mr and Mrs F take the PPI, so it had to check if it was right for 
them. From what I have seen of the policy and what Mr and Mrs F have told us about their 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think it was. I explain below why I say this.
Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the policy 
wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr and Mrs F at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions or non-standard 
employment terms. 
And I think Mr and Mrs F could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mr and 
Mrs F told us they had good sick pay benefits, the policy could have paid in addition to their 
company sick pay and for longer than their employer would have paid them at their full rate 
of pay. In saying that I think that NHS sick pay for Mrs F would have been six months full pay 
and then six months half pay. And whilst Mr and Mrs F told us they had some savings at the 
time of the sale, I note that they chose to protect those savings, by not choosing to use them 
to have a smaller mortgage. The cover would have further protected those savings, in the 
event either Mr or Mrs F had long term ill health, or if they lost their job. So, considering all of 
this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on a home, I 
think Mr and Mrs F couldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
F.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs F, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them from buying it. 
So, I do not think that Lloyds has to do anything to put things right.
So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs F lost out as a result of anything Lloyds might have done 
wrong. This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
The submissions made in this case suggest that the credit agreement itself was with a third-
party and not Lloyds. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman