DRN-4093536
The complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) gave him bad 
service on several issues.
What happened
Mr K had an Amex Platinum Business card and a personal Gold Card. Both accounts were
closed in February 2021.
Platinum Business Card: Mr K responded to an offer from Amex  to spend £150 with a
computer retailer (A) and get a credit for £150. He spent £10.74 on 2 June 2020. He
ordered goods from A costing £132.83 on 9 July 2020 - £106.26 was debited to his card
account on 7 September 2020.
Personal Gold Card: on 27 February 2020, the direct debit for £25 was returned unpaid.
Amex marked Mr Ks credit file with a late payment marker; and charged a fee of £12. The
balance was paid off on 25 March 2020.
Mr K complained. He said that on the business card, he had fulfilled the terms of Amexs
offer and should therefore receive the incentive of £150. He said that Amexs policy was for
unlimited spending on a business card and Amex had imposed a limit of £10,000. He said
this was due to the late payment on his personal card  which had nothing to do with his
personal card. His business had been affected as the card had been declined and he
couldnt easily use it in connection with purchases for his business.
On the personal card, Mr K said the reason the February 2020 payment was missed was
that his bank had frozen his account due to a fraud on it. And therefore, the direct debit
hadnt been paid. He said hed called Amex at the time and was told that if he paid in the
amount a few days late, then a late payment marker wouldnt be added to his credit file.
Amex said that on the business card, the issue lay with the third-party supplier having items
ready for delivery when the order was placed, and that wasnt their responsibility. Amex said 
they hadnt placed a spending limit on the business card.
On the personal gold card, Amex referred to a late payment in September 2021  which was
due to an error made by Mr K in setting up a direct debit  thats not part of Mr Ks complaint
that hes brought to us.
Mr K didnt agree with Amexs responses and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator
said:
Business card: she said Mr K didnt fulfil the conditions of the promotional offer involving A.
But she assessed a promotional offer in February 2021  which is not the subject of the
complaint Mr K has brought to us. She said Amex had the right to place a spending limit on
the business card  this was in their terms and conditions.
Personal card: she said the late payment fee had been reasonably applied as Mr K had
missed a payment. But after Mr K provided evidence that his bank had frozen his current
account due to a fraud, she issued another view which proposed that the late payment
marker was removed from Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K said in response (1) his complaint regarding the promotional offer related to a different
date  July 2020 to August 2020 and (2) he agreed that the late payment marker should be
removed
Amex didnt agree that the late payment marker should be deleted from Mr Ks credit file 
they said it had been correctly applied. They couldnt find any evidence that hed contacted
them about it.
Amex asked that an ombudsman look at Mr Ks complaint. And Mr K asked that his
complaint about the promotional offer is properly looked at  having regard to the dates of
July 2020 to August 2020. Therefore, this complaint has come to me to look at.
I issued a provisional decision which said Amex acted reasonably  this said:
Mr K has raised several complaints regarding how Amex dealt with his Business Platinum
business card and Personal gold card.
Platinum Business Card:
Promotional offer: I can see that Mr K made a purchase for £10.74 on 2 June 2020. And
there is a debit to the business card of £106.26 on 7 September 2020. Mr K has shown us
evidence that he placed an order with A for £132.83 on 9 July 2020. He therefore argues
that he should get the promotional credit of £150 from Amex  he says he met the terms and
conditions of the offer. We asked Amex more about this and they showed us the offer
operating at the time. The offer started on 28 May 2020 and ended on 27 August 2020. The
terms were that spend must be billed to your card by 27 August 2020 to be eligible for this
offer. If A does not charge your card during this period, e.g. because of a delay in
despatching your goods, you may not be eligible for the offer.
While I accept that Mr K placed an order with A on 9 July 2020; his card account wasnt
debited until 7 September  quite possibly this was due to stock availability. And Amexs
terms say they dont have to pay the incentive if that caused a delay. And a spend of £150
was needed to qualify  and Mr K only spent £117. Therefore, Amex were correct to decline
to pay £150 to Mr K  as he didnt meet the terms of the offer.
Limit on card: Amex told us they didnt place a spending limit on the card. We also looked at
the terms and conditions on the card. These say : from time to time, we may set a spending
limit which may be permanent or temporary. So  Amex could add a spending limit if they
wished to  even though Amex have said they didnt do so. So here, I think Amex acted
reasonably.
Personal Gold Card:
Credit file  late payment marker: I asked Amex more about this after our investigators view.
Mr K argues he called Amex when it happened. He showed us evidence that his bank had
stopped his current account and that was the cause of the returned direct debit. But  Amex
showed us all their call and chat records from January 2020 to April 2020 (on both cards)
and  there isnt any record of Mr K contacting Amex. If there was such a record, it wouldvebeen reasonable to say that the marker should be removed - as our investigator has said.
But - I can only go on the evidence we can see  and so on that basis, I must conclude that
Amex were correct in reporting the late payment to Mr Ks credit file. All banks, including
Amex, have a responsibility to report accurate information to credit reference agencies  and
thats what they did here. And so, on this aspect of Mr Ks complaint, I disagree with our
investigator.
And so, this provisional decision proposes that Mr Ks complaint arent upheld. I know this
will be disappointing for him, but I am inviting comments from both Mr K and Amex before I
issue a final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr K made substantial comments. He said (in summary):
Platinum Business Card:
Mr K accepted he didnt qualify for the incentive payment in connection with
purchases from A.
He accepted that Amex could restrict spending on the card, and that was included in
the terms & conditions.
But he said that the terms also said he shouldve been advised of this, and he hadnt
been so advised. He showed us evidence of correspondence from Amex which said
the card limit had been cancelled (after the event). This was an email dated 29
February 2020 which said We are writing to let you know your American Express
Card ending in XXX has been temporarily suspended in Amex Pay in the Amex App.
You can no longer make purchases using this card in the Amex App.
He also showed us a further declined payment advice dated 8 March 2020.
Mr K also argued that the spending limit on the business card was reduced because
of what happened on the personal card. And because the business card was held by
a separate legal entity (a limited company), that wasnt fair.
Personal Gold Card:
Mr K showed us evidence that he had contacted Amex on 28 February 2020. This
was in the form of an email dated on that day from Amex which referred to a
telephone conversation and gave details of how to make a faster payment to the card
account. The email was from Amexs Credit Management Services dated 28
February 2020 which said, As per our telephone conversation, here are the details
needed to make payments to us: (card details/sort code/account number).
We put his evidence to Amex and they maintained that Mr K hadnt contacted them about
the personal gold card - and showed us their records which also showed no contact at that
time. Amex also maintained they hadnt changed the spending limit on the business card.
I now need to consider these points.
I then issued a second provisional decision in the light of the additional evidence which said:Clearly we have contradictory evidence here. And where the information Ive got is
incomplete, unclear, or contradictory (as some of it is here) I must base my decision on the
balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not to have happened in all of the
circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
Platinum Business card:
It is accepted that Mr K didnt qualify for the incentive payment.
Mr K has shown us evidence that the card spending limit was reduced. Amex have
said it wasnt. And the Terms & Conditions also say Amex can take that action. But
they also say that customers should be advised  and theres no evidence to show
Mr K was so advised. And so here  Im persuaded that Amex did reduce the
spending limit of the card, and didnt advise Mr K. So - I propose to uphold this part of
the complaint.
Mr K also argues that the spending limit on the business card was reduced because
of what happened on the personal card. I have no firm evidence one way or the other
on this part of Mr Ks complaint. But - I think it would be normal business practice for
Amex to take an overall view of the relationship and take the action they did here. So
I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Ks complaint.
Personal gold card:
Contrary to what Amex have told us  and what is shown in their call logs  Mr K has
shown he did speak to Amex on 28 February 2020.
We dont have evidence of what was said in that conversation. But I can see that
payment to the card was due by 4 March 2020. And the direct debit was returned
unpaid on 26 February 2020. Im therefore persuaded that Mr K  consistent with his
arguments  did contact Amex and Amex did advise him that a late payment would
be OK and that it wouldnt affect his credit file. Therefore, I intend to uphold this part
of Mr Ks complaint.
I proposed that Amex remove the adverse data recorded on Mr Ks credit file; and pay 
compensation of £200. (continued)
Responses to the second provisional decision:
Amex accepted the findings, and so did Mr K. In doing so, he said again that he didnt think 
Amex could change the limit on the business card because of what happened on his 
personal card.
I now need to make a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Amex and Mr K accepted the findings, my final decision is in line with the second 
provisional decision. I noted Mr Ks comments about the business card, but Im content that I 
dealt with that aspect in the provisional decision, and my views havent changed.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited must:
Remove the adverse data recorded on Mr Ks credit file  the late payment markers 
in February 2020  March 2020.
Amex to pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman