DRN-3518540
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) didnt represent him fairly 
when accepting liability for an accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr B was involved in a collision when driving his car. He says he was 
performing a three-point turn and stopped to check the position of a post. At this point he felt 
an impact and found that a third party had collided with his rear bumper causing damage to 
his car. He says the right-hand side of the third-partys car was also damaged. 
Mr B says Admirals systems made it difficult for him to provide supporting information, and it 
took too long to handle his claim. He also thought its letter asking for CCTV footage was 
worded in a threatening manner.
Admiral wrote to Mr B in July 2021 to say it had settled the third partys claim in full. It says 
proceedings had been issued and it didnt think it had a strong case to defend. Mr B 
disagrees that he was at fault for the accident. He doesnt think Admiral did enough to 
represent him fairly. So, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She thought it was fair that Admiral 
acknowledged issues with its systems and how it communicated with Mr B when handling 
his claim. She thought the £50 compensation payment it provided to acknowledge this was 
reasonable. Our investigator felt Admiral took reasonable steps to obtain CCTV footage. 
When this wasnt available it had reasonably based its decision on the evidence provided by 
Mr B. 
Based on the evidence our investigator thought Admiral had handled the claim fairly and its 
decision was reasonable that the collision was likely caused by Mr Bs car reversing into the 
third-partys car.    
Mr B didnt agree. He thought there was a strong case that the other driver was at fault. So, 
he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My role here is to consider whether Admiral handled Mr Bs claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. A decision about who is 
responsible for an accident is best made by a court of law.
Mr B doesnt think Admiral acted in his best interests by accepting liability for the accident he 
was involved in. I have read his policy terms to understand what is expected here. The 
terms, under the section entitled General conditions say:
Defending or settling a claim
We are entitled to: 
- conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf.
This means that its for Admiral to decide how to it wants to deal with Mr Bs claim and 
whether to accept liability or not. Most motor insurance policies contain this term. But we still 
expect any decision on liability to be based on the facts and evidence. 
I can see that Admiral was provided with Mr Bs testimony describing what happened. He 
also sent a number of photos and videos showing the damage to both cars, the road layout, 
and where CCTV cameras were positioned near to where the accident occurred. 
I can see from Admirals records that it contacted two businesses to ask if CCTV footage 
could be provided. Several requests were made by email and phone, but no footage was 
provided. 
Admiral identified that the photos showed clear damage to the middle of the right side of the 
third-partys car. It says this indicates the car was passing behind Mr Bs car and he 
reversed into it. It says if Mr Bs car had been stationary the damage wouldve been to the 
front of the third-partys vehicle. 
Admiral says it attempted to settle on a 50/50 basis. The notes say that if this was rejected 
by the third-party, it wouldnt argue but would settle the claim as Mr Bs fault. In its July 2021 
letter it confirms the third-party had issued proceedings. Because it didnt think it had a 
strong case it had decided to settle the third-partys claim in full. 
I understand Mr B feels strongly that the third-party was to blame. But the third-party didnt 
agree. There are no witnesses to the accident and no CCTV footage to show what 
happened. 
I can see that Admirals decision was based largely on an assessment of the damage 
caused by the collision. I have looked at the photos and videos of the damage. The damage 
to Mr Bs car is to the rear bumper, and the damage to the third-partys car is down the right-
hand side on the driver and rear passenger doors. There is no damage to the front of the 
third-partys car. In the circumstances described I dont think Admirals view is unreasonable 
that the collision looks to have been caused by Mr Bs car reversing into the side of the third-
partys car. 
Based on this evidence I cant reasonably say that Admiral treated Mr B unfairly when 
deciding to the settle the claim in favour of the third-party. 
I can see from the records provided that Mr B uploaded a number of photos and videos via 
Admirals portal. But he was told it couldnt access information using this portal. I can 
understand why Mr B found this frustrating and I think its fair this point was acknowledged 
by Admiral. It says feedback has been provided internally. Admiral also acknowledged the 
wording of its letter asking for CCTV footage was inappropriate, which again I think is fair. I 
think its payment of £50 compensation is reasonable to acknowledge the frustration and 
upset this caused. I have thought about Mr Bs view that Admiral took too long to handle his claim. 
He first registered his claim at the end of February 2021. Admiral sent its settlement letter in 
mid-July. It says when there is a dispute regarding liability it can take around six months to 
reach a resolution. I can understand that Mr B wanted his claim to be resolved more quickly. 
But from the records I cant see that Admirals actions delayed matters, given the claim was 
initially disputed.   
Im sorry Mr B is unhappy with Admirals decision to accept that he was at fault for the 
accident. But having considered all the evidence I dont think it treated him unreasonably 
when relying on its policy terms to make the decision it did. I dont think it was fair in how it 
worded its letter requesting CCTV footage and when it couldnt access evidence sent via its 
portal. But I think its apology and compensation payment is reasonable in acknowledging 
these issues. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman