DRN-2418195
The complaint
Mrs G says Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) hasnt acted in her best 
interests by settling a claim in respect of damage to a third-party vehicle which she wasnt 
responsible for and she is disappointed with the service she has received.
What happened
Mrs G says that her son was using her car to deliver food for his employer in September 
2019 and accidentally reversed into another unattended vehicle, causing damage to the 
nearside front wheel arch and wheel cover. Her son left his number on the other vehicle and 
discussions took place between Mrs G and the owner of the other vehicle (the third party) 
with a view to dealing with the matter without insurers.
Mrs G says the third party tried to suggest that her son had caused damage to other parts of 
the vehicle but that this was not possible as he had only collided with the wheel arch area. 
She says that the third party eventually agreed that this had been the only area damaged 
and requested the sum of £346. Mrs G asked for a copy of the estimate and said that she 
would pay the garage but the third party refused to supply it and insisted that Mrs G pay her 
directly and she would pay the garage. As a result of this the matter was passed to the 
insurers.
Mrs G says that she had asked for her son to be covered for business use. However, 
Admiral said that Mrs Gs son wasnt covered under the policy for delivering food as the 
terms dont cover use for delivery. Mrs G feels that the policy wording regarding business 
use is misleading.
Admiral advised Mrs G that they would deal with the claim but that she would have to pay 
the full sum. Mrs G made Admiral aware of the extent of damage and that her son had only 
caused damage to the nearside front wheel trim. She told them about the estimate of £346 
the third party claimed to have received and advised Admiral that they had tried to add other 
damage; she was assured that Admiral would act in her best interests. 
Mrs G received a letter from Admiral in June 2020 advising her that they had settled the 
claim and requesting the sum of £2,264.70. She says she was surprised by this as it was 
considerably more than the amount of the previous estimate, and she had previously been 
advised that any proposed settlement figure would be discussed with her in advance. 
Mrs G complained to Admiral, who said that the policy terms and conditions clearly state that 
the insurance cannot be used for delivering. In relation to the cost of the third-party claim, 
Admiral says that the estimate has been reviewed and it has confirmed that it is accurate. It 
says that the third partys previous estimate may have been using second hand parts. 
However, most insurers use brand new manufacturer parts so when this is used on an older 
vehicle it deems the vehicle a total loss. Admiral said that it has listened to the calls it had 
with Mrs G and, although it appreciated that Mrs G thought that it would contact her to go 
through the claim costs before paying them, she was not advised that this would happen. It 
says that if it thinks the costs are reasonable it will pay them and advise of the amount 
payable.   
Admiral told Mrs G that it had examined the estimate and found it to be fully justified in terms 
of documentation by the third-party insurer. It provided Mrs G with a copy of the repair 
estimate and email exchanges between the third-party insurer and the repairer. Mrs G feels 
that additional damage over and above that caused by her son had been included in the 
repair estimate resulting in the vehicle being classed as a total loss. She said that had the 
estimate been limited to only the damage caused in this incident then the car wouldnt have 
been regarded as a total loss and the settlement figure would have been considerably lower.
Mrs G says she feels that she has been treated unfairly if she is required to pay £2,264.70 
when the damage caused by her son only amounted to a few hundred pounds. She also 
says the whole process has caused her a lot of stress and anxiety.
Our investigator looked at the case and found that the exclusion regarding delivery was 
made clear in Mrs Gs policy documents. The investigator set out that Admiral had a 
responsibility to not pay for costs that didnt appear to be genuine but that she didnt think 
that there was anything being claimed that wasnt claim related. The policy allowed Admiral 
to settle the claim on the best terms it felt was fit and its possible and reasonable that the 
work to the mirror and rear door could also form part of the job to repair the front wing. Even 
if those were excluded, the claim would still have been a total loss given the value of the car. 
Overall, the investigator found that Admiral hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs G 
unfairly.
Mrs G disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. She says that 
only the damage to the nearside front wing and wheel cover was caused by her son and that 
he didnt reverse past the wing mirror or cause any damage to any part of the doors or 
windows. Mrs G says none of the damage to the front bumper, mirror and rear door could 
possibly form part of the job to repair the front wheel arch. Likewise, she says that the 
damage to the offside rear taillamp and bumper were not caused by her son and that a large 
amount of damage to the car related to previous accidents. 
Mrs G says that the correspondence between the third-party insurer and the repairer 
confirms that additional damage has been incorporated within the claim. She says that the 
figure attributable to labour and parts for the damage her son caused only amounts to 
approximately £400 and that the car shouldnt have been deemed a total loss. Mrs G says 
she advised Admiral throughout that the only damage was to the nearside front wheel arch 
and that the third party had tried to claim additional damage was caused. She feels that 
Admiral hasnt acted in her best interests by settling a claim in respect of damage to other 
parts of the car not caused by her son and is disappointed with the service she has received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Should Mrs Gs policy have covered her for the damage to the third-party vehicle?
Ive first considered what Mrs G has said about the policy wording regarding business use 
being misleading.
Ive looked at Mrs Gs Certificate of Motor Insurance. I can see that under the field Permitted 
Use, it states that the cover is business use for all persons insured, including Mrs Gs son. 
However, immediately underneath this it sets out The Policy does not cover: Use for merchandise delivery.
Ive also looked at the Policy Terms under General Exceptions to your cover which states: 
You will not be covered for any liabilities you may have for any of the following: 
1. Any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens while your car is: 
 used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of 
Motor Insurance
 used for merchandise delivery
In light of the above, it is my view that the documentation made it clear that the policy did not 
cover any accident or damage which was caused whilst the vehicle was being used to 
deliver merchandise. Merchandise is a word of common usage and is defined in the Oxford 
English Dictionary as goods to be bought and sold. As Mrs Gs son was using the vehicle to 
deliver food whilst he was working at a restaurant, I think Admiral acted reasonably in 
declining to pay the claim under the policy.
Did Admiral act reasonably in settling the claim as it did on Mrs Gs behalf?
My role isnt to decide what should have been included in the quote and how much the 
settlement figure should have been, but to consider whether Admiral handled the third-party 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner and in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs 
policy when it settled the claim. 
I have seen a copy of a Consent and Indemnity Agreement signed by Mrs G in March 2020 
in which she agrees to Admiral taking over and conducting in her name the defence of any 
claim in relation to the accident, gives full authority to affect a settlement of any such claim 
and agreeing to repay all sums paid in respect of any settlement. As Mrs G signed this 
document, she has agreed for Admiral to act on her behalf and I think it is fair for Admiral to 
recover the costs of settling the claim. However, Admiral would still be expected to act fairly 
and reasonably to investigate liability and defend claims where appropriate. 
I can see that in the initial call in October 2019 Mrs G said that the third party was planning 
to get her to fix the back of her car as well so she was worried that she would try and get her 
whole car repaired as it was quite old and full of scratches and dents so she was worried she 
would want to claim it through her insurance. 
Ive seen a copy of correspondence between the third-party insurer and Admiral which sets 
out that the pre-accident value of the third partys vehicle was £1,275, the storage/towing 
fees were £84 and the cost of car hire was £905.70, which made up the total of £2,264.70 it 
was claiming for settlement from Admiral. 
The accident report provided by the third-party insurer shows that the cost of repair was 
estimated at £1,370.65. As a result of this the vehicle was treated as a total loss in 
November 2019. The correspondence between the third-party insurer and their repairer 
suggests that, prior to this decision, the third party had said to the repairer that the offside 
rear tail lamp and bumper were part of the claim and that the nearside rear door was 
damaged along with the moulding, which the repairer said could be claim related. The 
insurer asked the repairer to add the left hand side damage to the assessment and resend it 
and I can see that the cost of repairs relating to the left rear door are included in the estimate 
but that nothing related to the offside rear tail lamp and bumper has been included.As set out above, it is not my role to decide which items should have been included on the 
quote but to determine if Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in settling the claim as it did. 
Admiral says that the accident report shows that the third-party insurer had clearly reviewed 
the claim by the third party that the offside rear tail lamp and bumper was caused in the 
incident and had removed this as it believed this to be unrelated to the incident. As this 
showed that the third-party insurer had reviewed the estimate and made a decision on what 
was, and what was not related, Admiral says it had no reason to doubt that the nearside rear 
door damage was part of the incident repairs. Admiral also says the third party had a like for 
like hire vehicle and it was satisfied with the duration of hire and the rates. It says that this 
was its rationale for its decision to settle the claim on the basis of the estimate provided.
Had Admiral disputed the settlement figure, it would have had to prove that some of the 
damage wasnt caused by Mrs Gs son and so would have had to evaluate the likelihood of 
success and the potential costs involved in doing so. The third-party insurer provided 
Admiral with evidence to support the claim, which indicated that it had carried out some 
assessment on what was to be included in the repair estimate and that not everything 
claimed by the third-party had been included. I think Admiral was entitled to rely on this as 
being an accurate reflection of the cost to repair the damage caused by the incident, and it 
was based on this that Admiral made the decision to settle the claim. 
Having looked at the information available, its my view that Admiral considered all the facts 
and evidence before making a decision to settle the claim. This was in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and the settlement figure doesnt appear to me to be contrary to 
the evidence. So I think the decision to settle the claim was fair and reasonable.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, but I can't fairly say that Admiral 
has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman