DRN-3160752
The complaint
Ms A complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and the service she received 
when she requested paper statements for both her current and savings account.
What happened
Ms A held both a current and savings account with RBS. In April 2020, Ms A called RBS 
because she was struggling to access her online banking and was unable to attend branch 
due to COVID-19. After RBS were able to confirm Ms As identity, they agreed to arrange for 
paper statements of both accounts to be sent. But Ms A only received one statement, so she 
attempted to raise a complaint.
But when she called RBS to do this, the handler terminated the call without passing Ms A to 
the complaints team as they were unable to confirm her identity. Ms A was unhappy with this 
as well so raised a complaint and this and the first issue.
Ms A was unhappy with the questions she was asked in order to confirm her identity on the 
first call, where she ordered paper statements. She thought these questions were intrusive 
and unnecessary. And she was unhappy she hadnt been provided paper statements for 
both accounts. Ms A was also unhappy with the conduct of the handler in the second call as 
she thought they were rude and unhelpful and this prevented her from complaining. So, she 
wanted to be compensated to recognise the upset this caused.
RBS responded and upheld the complaint in part. They agreed they had failed to order 
paper statements for both accounts and arranged for this to be done as part of their 
response. They also agreed that the second call handler was unhelpful and the service 
provided fell below the standards theyd expect. So, they offered Ms A £100 to recognise the 
upset this caused and credited Ms As account to this amount. But they thought the first 
handler acted fairly as the questions were intended to ensure it was Ms A making the call to 
protect Ms As account. Ms A remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
While Ms As complaint was with our service, Ms A made us aware of other complaints she 
wanted to be considered. Ms A was unhappy that a member of staff had attempted to 
download an app onto her phone without her consent. And she raised issues about being 
pressured into setting up accounts with RBS.
Our investigator asked RBS whether they consented for us to consider these issues under 
this complaint reference. And they didnt. RBS explained they hadnt received a complaint 
about the app being downloaded so this would need to be raised separately. And they 
provided a final response letter dated 15 October 2019 which addressed Ms As complaint 
about being pressured into setting up accounts. So, they thought this complaint fell outside 
of our time limits
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained Ms A would 
need to raise a complaint with RBS about the app downloading. And she thought Ms As 
complaint about being pressured into setting up accounts fell outside of our time limits as Ms 
A had six months from the date of RBS response to bring this complaint to us. And Ms A 
didnt contact us until July 2020, around nine months after the response. So, she explained 
shed only considered the complaints answered in RBS final response letter sent on 28 April 
2020. 
And having done so, she didnt think RBS needed to do anything more. She recognised RBS 
had accepted theyd made mistakes. But she thought the £100 RBS offered was reasonable 
and fairly compensated Ms A for the upset and inconvenience shed been caused.
Ms A didnt agree. She was unhappy all of her complaints hadnt been addressed and 
thought RBS were purposefully hiding evidence to show shed complained about other 
issues. Ms A also referred to recent issues she was unhappy with. As Ms A didnt agree, her 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to explain exactly what Ive been able 
to consider. Im aware much of Ms As dispute centres around her belief not all of her 
complaints have been addressed. But for our service to consider a complaint, RBS must first 
be given the chance to respond to it within their own complaints process. Theyve confirmed 
they havent received a complaint from Ms A about the downloading of an app. And although 
Ms A says she has done this, Ive seen no evidence to show she has despite Ms A having 
the opportunity to provide this. So, I havent considered this, or any other issue Ms A says 
she raised since her complaint was brought to us, as part of my decision.
And Ive seen RBS issued Ms A with a final response to her complaint about being 
pressured into setting up an account in October 2019. The response letter clearly explained 
Ms A needed to refer her complaint to us within six months if she remained unhappy. The 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, state our service is unable to consider a 
complaint that is brought to us after those six months, unless there are exceptional 
circumstances that prevented a customer from doing so.
In this situation, Ms A didnt contact us until July 2020. So, Im satisfied she contacted our 
service more than six months after this response was provided. Ive considered whether 
there were any exceptional circumstances that prevented Ms A from doing so, and Im aware 
Ms A says she had an injury around this time but Ive seen no evidence to show what this 
injury was and how this impacted her ability to contact us. But I am aware Ms A was able to 
speak to RBS about requesting paper statements in April 2020 so Im satisfied she was able 
to speak to other businesses within the six-month time period she had. Because of the 
above, I think this complaint falls outside of our jurisdiction and I havent considered it 
further. 
So, my decision has focused solely on the complaints addressed in RBS final response sent 
to Ms A on 28 April 2020. Within this decision, RBS accepted theyd failed to send Ms A 
paper statements for both accounts. And they agreed their handler on the second call didnt 
provide the level of service theyd expect. As theyve already admitted their errors here, I 
dont intend to discuss them any further. But RBS didnt think the first call handler had done anything wrong by asking Ms A questions 
to confirm her identity and Ms A doesnt agree with this. Ive listened to the call recording of 
this conversation and I think the questions RBS asked were fair and intended to ensure Ms 
As account was protected from any fraudulent activity. I appreciate Ms A may have been in 
a public space at the time and felt uncomfortable with the questions but I dont think this was 
RBS fault or that they shouldve changed the questions they needed to ask to account for 
this. Im satisfied the handler asked these questions in good faith to ensure they confirmed 
Ms As identity before discussing her account and this is what Id expect them to do and 
because of this I dont think theyve done anything wrong for this aspect of the complaint.
So, Ive then thought about the offer RBS made to recognise the mistakes they accepted. 
And having done so, I think the £100 RBS credited to Ms As account was a fair one and in 
line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it adequately 
recognises the frustration Ms A wouldve felt when she only received paper statements for 
one of her accounts which didnt align with her request. And I think it also addresses the 
upset Ms A wouldve been caused by the conduct of the second handler she spoke to. But it 
also factors in the fact Ms A was still able to raise a complaint and that she wasnt financially 
impacted by either of the mistakes RBS made. So, I dont think RBS need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms A was hoping for. And I recognise the decision may 
not be a complete investigation into every issue Ms A currently has with the service shes 
received from RBS. But I hope this explains clear why Ive only been able to consider the 
complaint points covered in RBS response letter sent in April 2020 and the process Ms A will 
need to follow moving forwards is she remains unhappy with other issues.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman