DRN-4315403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined their claim 
for a replacement boiler and also settled a burst pipe claim for less than expected under their 
home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Aviva includes its agents, loss adjusters, contractors, 
and representatives for the purposes of this decision letter.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W experienced two distressing incidents at their home in December 2022. 
Firstly, the boiler burst. All water was turned off and Mr and Mrs W were left with no hot 
water or central heating for two weeks until they replaced the boiler. Following this, three 
pipes in the loft also burst and caused significant damage to their home. Mr and Mrs W 
instructed their own contractors to carry out building, electrical and plumbing repairs as well 
as decoration, at a total cost of £15,000. Aviva declined to pay for a replacement boiler. It 
settled the claim for works following the burst pipes incident, however it settled it for roughly 
half the claimed amount. It also settled the related contents claim for just under £5,400.
Mr and Mrs W made complaints to Aviva regarding these two matters. However, Aviva 
maintained its position. In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this 
service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaints. She considered 
that the boiler damage wasnt covered by the policy. She also concluded that, having 
considered the policy terms and conditions alongside the claim information, that Aviva hadnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in limiting their liability to the amount it would have cost them 
to complete the repairs.
Mr and Mrs W remain unhappy about the outcome of their complaints to Aviva. In the 
circumstances, the matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made complaints in relation to two issues here. The first relates to 
Avivas decision to decline their claim for boiler replacement. The second relates to Avivas 
cash settlement of Mr and Mrs Ws claim for damage to their home following three pipes 
bursting in the loft at their home. Whilst I appreciate that this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, Im unable to uphold these complaints on the available 
evidence, and Ill explain the reasons for my decision. In reaching this decision, Ive also 
taken into account the parties submissions as summarised below.
Firstly, I turn to Mr and Mrs Ws submissions in relation to the boiler. When the boiler 
incident occurred, all water was turned off, so there was no hot water or central heating for at 
least two weeks, and it was extremely cold. They had an elderly relative staying with them at 
the time who was extremely cold. Mr and Mrs W were boiling water and using an electric 
heater and hot water bottles for two weeks. It was then that the pipes above the bedroom 
burst, and all water was again turned off again. Mr and Mrs W said that the boiler had been 
serviced only a month before it broke down completely. Theyd had repairs to it costing over 
£500 which they didnt claim for. The new boiler cost nearly £5,500 and Mr and Mrs W were 
looking to Aviva to reimburse the cost of this. Theyd had to borrow money from friends and 
used the last of their savings to pay for this. 
Mr and Mrs W wanted to know how old a boiler needed to be for it to be excluded from cover 
due to gradual deterioration or lack of maintenance, as the boiler had only just been 
serviced. They also felt that the exclusion wasnt clearly highlighted in the policy documents. 
They said they were never told that they needed separate cover for the boiler. In conclusion, 
Mr and Mrs W thought that their policy made it clear that the boiler was insured for such 
eventualities. They also said that if the boiler issue had been dealt with immediately under 
the policy, they may not have had to deal with burst pipes and the consequent damage.
Secondly, I turn to Mr and Mrs Ws submissions regarding the damage to their property 
caused by burst pipes. They said that the incident involved three burst pipes and described 
the extent of the damage to both the building and its contents. Mr and Mrs W said that whilst 
Aviva had paid out for certain damage to the bedroom and contents, it had refused to pay 
out for all building, electrical and plumbing work and decoration. They said that Aviva had 
paid only half of the total bill of £15,000 which theyd had to pay their contractors.
Mr and Mrs W said that black mould had developed. Eventually, after nine weeks, Aviva had 
agreed that they could go ahead and use their own contractors. They felt that work became 
more extensive due to the long wait for Aviva to deal with the claim. They said the ceiling 
and stud wall had been removed by their contractors at the outset to make it safe. Mr and 
Mrs W also said that Aviva never asked to see quotes in advance and only asked for quotes 
after the work had been completed. They felt that the extent of the costs had been out of 
their hands, as the work had been done and had to be paid for. They also felt that theyd 
sent photographs and quotes for all relevant work and their contractor had produced an 
adequate breakdown of the relevant works on headed paper as requested by Aviva. Mr and 
Mrs W were also led to believe that they would receive assistance, as they were told that 
£7,500 was an interim amount so they though that there was more money to come.
Mr and Mrs W accepted that theyd been advised not to start work to begin with. They 
complied with this but were also told by Aviva that they could use their own contractors and 
Aviva had admitted that Mr and Mrs W could be a waiting a long time for Avivas contractors, 
as they were so busy. Finally, Mr and Mrs W said that they were now struggling financially 
as they hadnt been reimbursed for all of the remedial work which theyd paid for. Theyd 
borrowed money from friends and family and now felt emotionally drained and let down by 
Aviva. As for the service provided by Aviva, they said that communication with Aviva had 
been a nightmare. Theyd been left on hold during phone calls and no-one ever gets back. 
They also didnt understand what work Avivas first loss adjuster had carried out and felt that 
the second loss adjusters inspection had been cursory.
I now turn to Avivas submissions regarding the boiler damage. It said that it located a call to 
its claims department in mid-December 2022 which referenced failure of the jacket or heat 
exchanger. The representative had consulted the policy cover and advised that unfortunately 
the damage wouldnt be covered as it would be attributed to mechanical failure or 
breakdown. Aviva then referenced the relevant page of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. Aviva also 
accepted that Mr and Mrs W had provided photographs of the damaged boiler and an 
invoice for the replacement boiler. It reiterated however that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt be 
covered for boiler replacement under the policy. Aviva said that Mr and Mrs W had mentioned that the burner had been water damaged and it confirmed that it could potentially 
consider this aspect for further claim consideration under the escape of water peril.
As to the burst pipes, Aviva accepted that this was an insured event and that significant 
damage had been caused to Mr and Mrs Ws property including saturated and collapsed 
ceilings and flooring. It also accepted that contents, including clothing and bedding had been 
ruined. It noted that Mr and Mrs W had been keen to progress the claim and wanted their 
own contractor to carry out the works. Aviva said that it had advised Mr and Mrs W that until 
the drying process at the property had taken place, no reinstatement should be undertaken. 
Aviva considered that Mr and Mrs W had proceeded to have repair works completed despite 
being strongly advised to contact Aviva before progressing them, to ensure that claim liability 
could be accepted and about any settlement they would receive. 
It said that following a loss adjusters visit in February 2023, Aviva settled some aspects of 
the claim. It advised it would reimburse plumbers and electrical invoices once received. It 
said that Mr and Mrs W had also said that they would post their builders quote for review 
and confirmed a preference for a cash settlement. It said that Mr and Mrs W had called for 
an update in March 2023 and were informed that a further loss adjuster visit would be 
essential to validate the costs included in the claim. The loss adjuster scoped the works and 
said they would cost just over £7,500, as opposed to the contractors invoice of £15,000. 
Aviva said that the loss adjuster had based the schedule of repairs on damage viewed on 
site and photographs taken at the previous visit. Aviva said that it ultimately made payments 
totalling £13,500 under the buildings and contents sections of the policy.
As Mr and Mrs W disputed the settlement, Aviva said that it would require a full breakdown 
of their contractors quotation, with a breakdown for materials and labour and that this was 
the standard claims procedure. It quoted the policy requirements in this respect. When it did 
receive information from the contractor, Aviva said it wasnt a line-by-line invoice from the 
contractor on official headed paper. This meant that it couldnt compare its own breakdown 
with that of the contractor to see if there was anything else it could do to assist. It considered 
that some invoiced items hadnt been included in the original claim.
Aviva said that it had also advised Mr and Mrs W that if it was their preference to have their 
claim cash settled, then it would request quotations for review prior to any works being 
completed. It said it confirmed that if Mr and Mrs W wished to continue to dispute the offer, it 
would require a second quotation for comparative purposes. Aviva accepted that it had 
advised that the amount paid was an interim payment whilst their dissatisfaction was being 
investigated. In summary, Aviva considered that the settlement offered was the limit of 
liability under the relevant policy for the evidenced damage following the claim incident. 
Aviva accepted and acknowledged that an initial loss adjuster appointment had to be 
cancelled at short notice. It also accepted that on occasions, the standard of its 
communication hadnt been as it should be. It therefore awarded compensation of £250 by 
way of further apology for these aspects. 
Having carefully considered the submissions and all available evidence, I now provide the 
reasons for my decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaints. The starting point for the 
decision is the policy itself. It clearly covers damage caused by an escape of water from 
apparatus and pipes. It excludes any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, or any 
damage that happens gradually over time. It also excludes costs that arise from normal use, 
maintenance and upkeep of buildings and contents. 
Under the heading of Claim Conditions the policy documents state that it may pay the cash 
value of repairs as follows: - if we offer to repair or replace any item and you ask us to pay 
you the cash value, we will not pay you more than the amount it would cost us to repair or replace the item through our preferred supplier. It also states that it may appoint a contractor 
to validate a claim and who will be authorised to arrange a quotation.
Unfortunately, home insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and all damage caused 
within the home. The cover is determined by the relevant insurance cover and the specific 
terms and conditions of each policy. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs W in 
relation to the two incidents which faced them in December 2022. Clearly the ordeal of 
dealing with a boiler replacement and then burst pipes, which caused such extensive 
damage, would have been very distressing indeed. I also appreciate that the insurance 
validation process itself also inevitably causes additional stress and inconvenience. 
However, the issue for decision is whether Aviva acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
accordance with industry practice and procedure in handling Mr and Mrs Ws claims.
Firstly, as to the burst boiler and the need for replacement, unfortunately for Mr and Mrs W, I 
have to agree with Aviva that the catastrophic boiler failure is not something which is 
covered under their home insurance policy. I cant uphold this aspect of their complaint. 
Appliances and boilers are often covered under specific insurance policies which provide 
breakdown, replacement and servicing cover. In this instance the terms and conditions show 
that the policy doesnt cover breakdown through normal usage over time. Whereas damage 
caused by escape of oil from a boiler is specifically covered, unfortunately boiler breakdown 
is not. I agree with Mr and Mrs W that if the boiler had been damaged by an escape of 
water event, it could potentially have been covered as it was a fixture or fitting and therefore 
part of the building. Also, if the water from the boiler, being an apparatus, had damaged the 
building, then this too may have been covered. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs W in this instance, the catastrophic failure of the boiler is 
unlikely to have been caused by an escape of water. The failure was likely to have been 
due to wear and tear, age, and normal use of the boiler despite the recent service. Im 
satisfied that Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the interpretation of its policy in the 
circumstances and that the boiler failure wasnt covered. Aviva said that if the burner had 
been water damaged, it could potentially have considered this aspect for further claim 
consideration under the escape of water peril. I consider that this was a fair interpretation.
Secondly, as to the extensive damage caused by the burst pipes, Aviva accepted that a valid 
escape of water event had occurred. It confirmed that We are satisfied that an insured peril 
has occurred and that there are no exclusions applicable. The issue for determination here 
however is whether Aviva fairly and reasonably applied its claims conditions in paying 
significantly less than Mr and Mrs W had paid their contractors for their work. Mr and Mrs W 
were clear throughout that they wanted to use the relevant contractors, as theyd used them 
previously and considered them to be reliable and that the work was of admirable quality. 
Whilst its entirely understandable that Mr and Mrs W would wish to use a contractor they 
trusted, by proceeding in this manner they hadnt tested other cheaper options or tested the 
service which was available through their insurers. Whilst I appreciate their reasoning, this 
meant that they hadnt obtained quotes from other contractors to show that their chosen 
contractor was competitive and reasonable as regards price. I also appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs W may not have been familiar with the insurance claims process. They may not have 
appreciated that Aviva wasnt required to pay out more than the amount it would have cost it 
to carry out works through its preferred supplier, as per the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I also note that Aviva only expressly informed them of the need for further quotes 
after the event. The claim notes show however that it was explained to Mr and Mrs W that it 
would be advisable to speak with Aviva before progressing works, to ensure there was cover 
and that payment would be authorised. Again, I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations 
about the length of time the claims process took, and why they wished to urgently proceed 
with work. In the circumstances however, I consider that Mr and Mrs W were placed on notice that contractors costs wouldnt automatically be paid in full, and that the settlement 
amount would be dependent on the usual validation process.
Ive also carefully considered all the available documentary evidence. This includes a 
detailed, itemised, and priced schedule of works provided by Avivas loss adjuster. This 
makes it clear that the professional opinion was that the itemised work as authorised under 
the claim could have been carried out by Avivas contractors for just over £7,500. I have no 
doubt that Mr and Mrs Ws contractors carried out work promptly and that the work was of a 
good quality. I also appreciate that the need for further quotes hadnt been spelt out by Aviva 
prior to Mr and Mrs Ws contractor proceeding with work. However, Mr and Mrs W have 
been unable to evidence that theyd sourced the authorised works at the most cost-effective 
price, to counter the more persuasive priced schedule of works provided by Aviva.
I note that opportunities were provided for Mr and Mrs Ws contractors to provide a detailed, 
itemised, and priced schedule of works, similar to that produced by Aviva. Ive noted that the 
contractors did provide a list of the works they carried out and that this was produced on 
official headed paper. Unfortunately, each item wasnt separated out and individually costed 
as to labour and materials. In the circumstances, its not been possible to compare the 
detailed, priced schedule produced by Aviva with the more limited information provided by 
Mr and Mrs Ws contractors. I therefore find the Aviva schedule of works to be persuasive in 
relation to what would be fair and reasonable costings for works authorised under this claim.
Finally, in relation to the service aspects, I note that Aviva accepted that an initial loss 
adjuster appointment was cancelled at short notice. It also accepted that the standard of its 
communication was not as it should be. It therefore awarded compensation of £250 by way 
of further apology for these aspects. I agree that this was a fair level of compensation 
which accords with the services guidance. In conclusion, I appreciate that this will come 
as a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs W. I also appreciate that theyve clearly had to 
endure a very difficult ordeal. However, Im satisfied that Aviva considered Mr and Mrs Ws 
claims fairly, reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant 
policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaints and I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything else in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman