DRN-3440200
The complaint
L complains World First UK Limited failed to return funds held in its accounts with them. It 
wants the funds returned and compensation for the losses its been caused.
What happened
Mr M is the director of L, a limited company, and he brings this complaint on its behalf. 
Our investigator revealed the background facts which lead to Ls complaint in their view. I 
find no need to repeat everything they said here. But in summary, L held accounts with 
World First to receive payments for services it provided to clients, but which could not be 
used for escrow services.
World First decided to end its relationship with L in early September 2020. They gave L 
notice that its accounts would close. L continued to receive payments during the notice 
period, but when its accounts closed World First didnt release the account balances back to 
L and they refused to provide their reasons.
Mr M says L has suffered financial and reputational losses as a result of not having access 
to the funds. He says World First halted progress on an important project for a client, 
jeopardising that project and Ls relationship with its client. He says L has been unable to 
agree even small contracts because of the damage that has been caused to its reputation.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Ls complaint. They found:
World First could end their relationship with L, and they didnt need to tell L why. Mr 
M had acknowledged that World First could close Ls accounts.
World First were entitled not to send the remaining account balances back to L. Their 
decision complied with their legal and regulatory responsibilities
World First were not obliged to tell L their reason(s) for not returning the funds to L or 
closing the account. The information which they sent to our service which showed 
their reason(s) is being treated in confidence, which the rules our service follows 
allow us to do.
Mr M says he needs to know if there is any impropriety regarding the funds L received, so 
that both he and L arent negatively impacted. He asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so Ls complaint was given to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M acknowledges World First could end its relationship with L and I agree. Being able to 
close accounts is an important part of the commercial freedom firms are afforded. And, 
decisions to close accounts are often commercially sensitive, so its common for firms not to 
reveal why they closed an account. On balance, I find World Firsts decision not to reveal 
why they ended their relationship with L was reasonable.
Firms have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They must monitor accounts for activity which appears unusual or 
out of place, and they can carry out reviews and ask for information about the origin of funds 
and their intended purpose. And, sometimes, depending on the results of a review, it may be 
reasonable for a firm to not return funds to a customer.
I have considered very carefully World Firsts decision not to return the funds that were in Ls 
accounts. I have found their decision complied with their legal and regulatory responsibilities, 
so they have not acted unfairly even though L was and still is being adversely affected.
Mr M wants to know World Firsts reason(s) for not returning the funds. I understand why he 
wants to know if there was any impropriety in order to protect L and himself. But I find World 
First have not acted unlawfully by not revealing the basis for their decision to Mr M. I am not 
going to direct them to reveal their reason(s) and neither am I going to reveal their reasons 
in this decision.
I understand Mr M has waited some time to receive an answer on Ls complaint with our 
service. But this is not a legitimate reason to override World Firsts decision not to tell him 
why they havent returned the funds to L. Again, I find World First were entitled to take the 
actions they did.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman