DRN-3657170
The complaint
Mr H complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) automatically renewed his 
motor insurance policy and took payment from his bank account without giving him any 
notification.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr H had a multi-car motor insurance policy with Admiral. The policy was due for renewal on 
2 November 2021. 
Mr H said he did not receive any notification about the renewal from Admiral, He said he had 
attempted to contact Admiral a few days before the renewal date and could not get through. 
He said if Admiral had notified him of the renewal, he would have cancelled the policy.
Mr H said Admiral had taken the cost of the policy premium from his bank account without 
his consent. And this had left him short of money.
Admiral said it had sent Mr H renewal documents before the renewal date. Admiral accepted 
that after Mr H made contact, it had agreed to call him back within 72 hours and it failed to 
do so. It offered £25 compensation for this mistake. 
As Mr H was not happy with Admiral, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and did not think 
Admiral had made an error when taking the funds from Mr Hs bank account.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said as he had not heard anything from Admiral about his renewal, he tried to contact it 
by phone a few days before the renewal date but was unable to get through. He said the 
phone lines were busy and his calls were dropped due to high volume. 
Mr H provided evidence of an exchange of emails between himself and Admiral, the first 
being on 3 November 2021. He said he had not had a quote or any communication from 
Admiral about his renewal. He also said he wanted to update his home address.
Admiral sent Mr H a link to his online account so that he could view the documentation, but 
Mr H said he had issues viewing anything.  On 4 November 2021 Admiral sent an email to 
say it required further information before it could provide a quote for the update to his 
address. It gave a link to add the details or said he could chat to its webchat team. 
Mr H responded again to say there was no option to view his documents and that the 
webchat team had been unable to assist. Admiral emailed Mr H and said it would call him 
back within 72 hours, however it failed to do so.
I saw that Admiral issued a £25 compensation payment for the inconvenience caused by it 
not calling him back as agreed. 
Admiral provided evidence that it sent a renewal pack to Mr H on 13 October 2021. This was 
sent to Mr H by email to the address held on his account. This was in advance of the 
renewal date of the policy of 2 November 2021.
The heading of the email says; Your Multicar Insurance policy is due to automatically renew 
on 02/11/2021!
It also says; If you decide not to renew your policy this year, please call us on xxxx xxx xxxx  
before 02/11/2021 to stop the automatic renewal.
Mr H said he never received this email. However I saw evidence it was sent to the email 
address that is held on his account and there is no evidence that this email was not 
delivered. It was not returned to Admiral. 
When Mr H contacted Admiral, I saw that he used the email address to which the policy 
renewal details had been sent. 
As the evidence provided shows all the renewal information was sent in advance of the 
renewal date, I do not agree that Admiral took the policy premium without Mr Hs permission.
Within the renewal information email, Admiral explained it would debit the renewal premium 
using his existing payment details if it did not hear from him. And as it did not hear from him 
it renewed his policy on 2 November 2021.
Mr H said he had difficulty getting through to Admiral when he called. I can understand 
waiting on the phone would have been frustrating for Mr H. Admiral acknowledge that 
sometimes its lines are busy and there is a queuing system and it was apologetic for the 
inconvenience caused to him. Mr H also said he was unable to access his online account. 
However no evidence has been provided to show the error messages he was getting when 
trying to log in.
Mr H said he was not expecting the policy premium to be taken automatically and that it left 
him short of money. However, under the terms and conditions of his policy I have seen he 
was entitled to cancel the policy within 14 days and obtain a full refund. I have seen no 
evidence that cancellation was requested. Or that he contacted Admiral to make the change 
of address he had previously referred to.
Considering all the evidence I do not think Admiral made an error when renewing the policy 
and taking the funds from Mr Hs bank account. 
Therefore I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything more 
in this case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman