DRN-1549098
 
The complaint
Mr N has questioned whether Canada Life Limited (Canada Life) took full account of his 
personal circumstances when he took out an annuity. He wants the setting up of the plan to 
be investigated to ensure Canada Life acted correctly.
 What happened
In March 2010 Mr N signed a completed application form to take out an annuity using the 
benefit of the occupational pension scheme he held. Based on the information provided 
within the form, Canada Life was able to offer Mr N an enhanced annuity. Mr N was provided 
with an illustration of what he could expect to receive. 
More recently Mr N said he became aware of the mis-selling of pension products including 
annuities and contacted Canada Life. He wanted to know if it had fully considered all his 
personal circumstances when it offered him an annuity.
Canada Life said it did because it based its offer on the information he had provided. This 
led him to qualify for an enhanced annuity. So it didn't believe it had done anything wrong. 
But Mr N wasn't satisfied with that outcome. He brought his complaint here as he wanted us 
to confirm that Canada Life had complied with the rules in place at the time.  
One of our investigator's looked into the matter. She thought Mr N had taken out the annuity 
through an adviser and that Canada Life had provided Mr N with a quotation based on the 
information that was submitted. As Canada Life didn't provide Mr N with any advice she 
didn't think it had done anything wrong and didn't think the complaint should be upheld.
But Mr N said he hadn't taken any advice in the course of drawing his pension benefits and 
wanted to make sure there hadn't been any errors made. He said he wanted the matter 
referred to an ombudsman - so it's been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know this isn't the outcome Mr N wanted - 
so I'll explain my reasons.
Mr N has asked if Canada Life took all of his circumstances into account when he took out 
his annuity. But, from the evidence I've seen, I don't think Canada Life was involved in the 
advice process here at all, it simply provided an annuity that was based on Mr N's situation 
at that time. 
There has been a suggestion that Mr N was given advice to take out the annuity, but from 
what I've seen the information within the application form was more likely to have 
been provided by the trustees or scheme administrator of his previous scheme pension. But 
in any case, and regardless of who provided the information, Canada Life was able to use that information and it offered Mr N an enhanced annuity - primarily because of some 
health conditions. 
I've seen a copy of the illustration provided to Mr N based on the annuity that was offered. It 
also confirmed that Canada Life will pay "commission to your adviser of £1,045.06 for 
arranging the policy". So I can't say Canada Life didn't take all of Mr N's personal 
circumstances into consideration because it simply wasn't responsible for gathering 
information and giving Mr N advice.
Canada Life's role was to look at the information it was provided with and offer annuity terms 
based on its underwriting process. I think it's done that here. Mr N said he wanted us to 
check that Canada Life had fulfilled the regulations it needed to follow to ensure he's 
circumstances were fully assessed. But as I've already said it was Canada Life's 
responsibility to ensure it provided an annuity based on the information it was provided with. 
It covered this contingency within the application form which said It is your responsibility to 
ensure this Confirmation Schedule is accurate. Canada Life will be relying on the information 
you provide and you should treat this form with the same degree of care as you would a 
signed legal document. If this form is incorrect Canada Life will be entitled to reduce your 
pension from commencement or amend any terms of the annuity based on this Confirmation 
Schedule."
In fact from the evidence Ive seen Mr Ns annuity was based purely on the information he 
provided. The enhanced lifetime annuity illustration  issued by the adviser/scheme 
administrator said we have produced the personal example based on medical and lifestyle 
information provided in respect of the first annuitant which will firm part of the contract with 
Canada Life. 
I know Mr N has doubts about the annuity he took out based on a number of recent mis- 
selling scandals within financial services - which I can understand retrospectively may have 
caused him some concern about his own plan. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that Canada Life did anything but use Mr N's personal information to determine a 
bespoke annuity to suit his needs.
And the fact that he qualified for an enhanced annuity  due to his declared health issues, 
would suggest that his annuity was simply based on his situation. Mr N has benefited from a 
higher level of income because of the enhanced annuity which I dont think he would now be 
receiving if Canada Life hadnt taken all his circumstances into consideration. 
I haven't found any reason to suggest that Canada Life didn't do as it said it would and 
provide Mr N with an appropriate annuity based on his situation. So I don't think its done 
anything wrong here.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons that I've given I don't uphold Mr N's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman