DRN-3212172
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his bank account and didnt tell him why.
What happened
Mr G had an account with Santander.
  
In November 2020,  Santander blocked Mr Gs account while it carried out a review after a 
payment of £20,000 was paid into his account and he made a large cash withdrawal. This 
meant Mr G wasnt able to access the funds in his account.
Mr G explained to Santander that the payment was from a friend who was buying a car. And 
that hed been inconvenienced by the block as he needed access to the money in his 
account to travel to his relatives funeral. He said he had to borrow money from his parents 
to attend the funeral which was upsetting and stressful for him. 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong and apologised for any inconvenience its actions had 
caused Mr G. The bank explained that it had blocked Mr Gs account to comply with its legal 
and regulatory obligations. And removed the block on 20 November 2020, so Mr Gs account 
was blocked for around ten days. 
Unhappy with this response Mr G complained to our service. He explained that being without 
his money had made it difficult for him. So, he wants Santander to pay him compensation for 
the trouble and upset he suffered. And provide a proper explanation why it had blocked his 
account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. He didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. He said Santander were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when it had blocked Mr Gs account and hadnt caused any delays. He also explained that 
Santander didnt have to provide Mr G with a reason why it had blocked his account. 
Mr G disagreed. He wants Santander to pay him compensation for the trouble and upset the 
block on his account caused him.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block Mr Gs access to his account. As the 
investigator has already explained, Santander has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks 
to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial crime such as fraud. The 
terms of Mr Gs account also permit Santander to block payments, accounts and ask its 
customers for information. So, I cant say Santander did anything wrong when it blocked 
Mr Gs account. 
The timing of Santanders actions was unfortunate. Mr G wanted to use the money in his 
account to attend a funeral. So, I can understand why he found this experience with Santander 
stressful and upsetting. And why he wants the bank to pay him compensation.  
But as the investigator has already explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander 
was complying with its obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Gs account. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Mr G inconvenience, and was no doubt upsetting at a time when Mr G was 
going through a difficult time, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly when it blocked his 
account. I can also see that Santander completed its review in a timely manner and that there 
werent any unreasonable delays. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr G 
compensation since I dont find the bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.  
I understand that Mr G wants Santander to explain the reason it applied the block to hehis 
account in the first place. But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr G  the reasons behind the 
account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving him this information. 
In summary, the block to Mr Gs account has clearly caused Mr G inconvenience. So 
understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating 
time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I cant conclude that Santander treated Mr G 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman