DRN-3518515
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him after he lost money to a car finance 
scam.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in July 2021, Mr S was looking for a vehicle to 
lease and came across a page on social media that offered this service. Mr S contacted the 
page and discussed available options in more detail by phone and messaging services. 
Mr S has explained before agreeing to leave a vehicle, he checked the business name on 
Companies House and found it existed. He also identified the registered director was the 
same individual he believed he had been speaking to. Unfortunately Mr S was in fact 
speaking to a fraudster, who had spoofed a legitimate business.
Mr S received a falsified lease agreement from the fraudster and agreed to make an initial 
payment of £1,086.75 towards the lease. He was then advised his direct debit wouldnt be 
set up in time for the first payment, so paid a further £724.50 to cover his first months lease.
When Mr Ss car didnt arrive as agreed Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam and 
contacted Monzo to raise a claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo considers Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a genuine 
purchase. It said Mr S shouldve completed more checks to confirm the legitimacy of who he 
was paying. It also said it provided Mr S with an effective warning when making the payment 
to the fraudster.
Mr S feels he should be refunded and so has referred his complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with Monzo providing a full 
refund. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr S 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr S lost.
The money was taken from Mr Ss current account. It is not clear how Mr S would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date Monzo decided not to refund Mr S under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment.
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr S had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine and whether he ignored an effective 
warning. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not 
persuaded that Mr S failed to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr S lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I 
appreciate Monzos comments that the lease was cheaper than others it has identified online 
and that social media and messaging services arent how genuine businesses conduct 
sales, particularly those selling leasing contracts. However, Ive also considered that, in the 
circumstances of this case, Mr S completed quite considerable checks to try and protect 
himself  checking whether the business was registered, reviewing the directors details and 
conducting a HPI check (albeit taking this additional step after the first payment had been 
made). Monzo has argued there is nothing to suggest the individual Mr S was speaking to 
was linked to the genuine company hed researched, but I think this is easier said in 
hindsight, or with a greater knowledge of scams. In this case, a fraudster had taken steps to 
spoof a legitimate company and create a false social media page impersonating them. I think 
its fair to say that most individuals who saw a social media page with the same name and 
details as a genuine company would assume the two are linked  and I dont think Mr S 
acted unreasonably on this basis. 
While the price Mr S paid was less than other sellers were offering, I think its less 
straightforward to identify this as a buyer for a leased car than, for example, buying a car 
outright, as price would be dependent  on more variables such as lease terms and so not as 
easily comparable. In any event, I dont think the price was so much lower that it shouldve 
alerted Mr S that this offer was too good to be true. I think its also fair to say that its 
becoming increasingly common for genuine businesses, particularly smaller ones, to 
conduct business and sales via social media and messaging sites.
I also dont think the warning Monzo presented Mr S with would be considered as effective 
under the Code as its not specific to the particular scam Mr S fell victim to. However having 
said that, considering the relatively low value of the payments Mr S was making (and 
therefore a lesser indication that Mr S may be a risk of fraud), I dont consider there was a 
requirement on Monzos part for an effective warning to be provided.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Mr S lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief for making the transactions in question, or that he ignored an effective 
warning. Monzo should therefore refund the money Mr S lost to the fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Mr S the £1,811.25 he lost to the scam
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Monzo declined Mr Ss claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman