DRN-2057540
The complaint
Mr H complains that Transunion International UK Limited (TU) took too long to record on his 
credit file that his bankruptcy had been discharged. He wants compensation of £1,500.
What happened
Mr H tells us that he was discharged from bankruptcy in September 2019. But he became 
aware that TU hadnt updated his credit file until he complained. And that it took until 
November 2019 for this to be completed. He also complains it hasnt removed all the 
defaults that were registered.
Transunion told us that as a credit reference agency (CRA) it recorded information exactly 
how it was provided by its data suppliers such as banks and credit card providers. And that it 
had engaged in extensive correspondence with Mr H. TU explained that it had contacted 
various businesses to advise of Mr Hs situation. And it had issued a final response letter in 
October 2019 which set out the replies it had received from the businesses with which it had 
raised disputes. And this had included what action Mr H needed to take to have his credit 
record updated.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained that it 
takes several weeks for information to be updated and that TU had updated its records 
within the timescale wed expect. He noted that it had recorded the correct date of discharge. 
He also found that the business whose debt was not included in the bankruptcy hadnt given 
TU permission to alter the information theyd recorded. And without this TU was unable to 
remove it.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome and felt hed been fobbed off.  As its not been 
possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I accept that Mr H would wish his discharge from bankruptcy to be registered on his credit 
file as soon as possible. And I understand hed be disappointed that it took several weeks for 
this to happen.
Its important to note that this complaint is brought against TU which is a CRA. A CRA 
doesnt report credit information about an individual  the financial organisations do. The 
CRA only stores the information for financial referencing. And when an individual disputes 
the information on their credit file with a CRA, our approach is that wed expect a CRA to 
carry out reasonable enquires into the matter. Which is what TU did here.
Mr Hs complaint is that it took too long for the discharge of his bankruptcy to be recorded on 
his TU credit record. And that he had to contact his creditors to bring this about rather than 
TU doing it for him. Apart from the specific complaint about the delay and having to do much 
of the work himself Mr H also feels that TUs overall handling of his complaint was poor.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ill deal briefly with the issue raised about the handling of Mr Hs complaint. This service is 
only able to deal with regulated activities. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So its 
not something I can look at separately from other aspects of a complaint.
From the information provided I see that TU raised disputes with numerous businesses.
This included both those that were reporting to it and were included in the bankruptcy. And 
those that were not included in the bankruptcy. Theres no requirement for a financial 
business to report financial information to all the CRAs, and its up to each individual 
business to decide which, if any, CRA they wish to use.
Our investigators view sets out a comprehensive list of the disputes raised and the 
responses of the different businesses. I shant repeat this as the parties have seen it.
He also referred to the advice given by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and the 
process that needs to be followed if accounts havent been updated after the discharge of a 
bankruptcy. Our investigator set out the full text but in summary it required the individual 
concerned (the discharged bankrupt) to notify the relevant lenders and send them evidence 
of the discharge.
Mr H has also complained that TU refused to remove defaults from two businesses which Ill 
refer to as TM and E, but other CRAs have. I understand that any debts relating to these 
businesses were not part of the bankruptcy. Transunion provided Mr H with the responses it 
received from these businesses - which didnt permit it to amend or remove the information. I 
cant say that it acted incorrectly in this respect.
In summary, I find that TU responded reasonably to Mr Hs complaint and that it sought to 
assist him where it was able to do so. It explained to Mr H what steps he needed to take to 
have his credit file amended. In the circumstances I dont consider that it did anything wrong. 
Consequently, I shant be asking it to pay compensation. And Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman