DRN-1096301
 
The complaint
Mrs V's representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
In September 2007, Mr and Mrs V were advised to invest £10,000 each into an Open Ended 
Investment Company (OEIC). 
Lloyds rejected the complaint. In summary, it said:
At the time Mr and Mrs V held £29,000 jointly in a savings account.
Mrs V held £1,500 in a cash ISA. 
In total they had £42,000 available. 
The investment of £10,000 each represented only 47.62% of Mr and Mrs Vs 
available funds. 
They were left with £22,000 which was suitable for any planned expenditure or 
unplanned emergencies.
Mrs Vs was assessed as a cautious risk investor and chose the Momentum Income 
Portfolio which is a low risk fund.  
The funds matched Mrs Vs attitude to risk, and was considered suitable for 
inexperienced investors. 
Mr and Mrs V only encashed their investments to pay for home improvements which 
wasnt envisaged at the time. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mrs V was advised to use a fund which was risk rated 2 out of 6 by Lloyds. 
It targeted around 15% in equity investment and the rest in bonds. 
The advice given to Mrs V was unsuitable because she wasnt willing to risk her 
capital as evidenced by the answers to the risk profile questionnaire. 
In other words, she wasnt willing to risk her capital, even if it meant she wouldnt 
make a return.
 
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
maintains that the advice was suitable. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Lloyds says, I 
agree with the investigators conclusion for substantially the same reasons. Im going to 
uphold this complaint. 
Im not persuaded that the advice to take a risk with Mrs Vs capital was suitable given her 
overall financial circumstances. In other words, in this instance the advice to put her capital 
at risk wasnt suitable. I appreciate the business will disagree with this but on balance I dont 
think this was an unreasonable conclusion by the investigator.  
The recommendation recorded Mrs V as being a cautious risk investor, this was defined as:
A Cautious approach means investments are expected to have a relatively modest risk to 
the capital value and /or income. They have the potential to provide income, and/or, over the 
medium to long term, relatively modest capital growth. The capital value may fluctuate, 
although some products may offer some guarantee of capital protection.
Whilst its fair to say certain questions were asked of Mrs V to arrive at the conclusion that 
she was a cautious or low risk investor - Im uncertain as to the reasoning behind this being 
identified as her attitude to risk. 
Mrs V also wasnt an experienced investor like Mr V and unlike him, she provided the 
following answers to the questions below:
Q: The stability of my money is more important to me than the growth I may receive
A: Strongly Agree"
Q: I am concerned about the impact of inflation on my money over the medium to 
long term and am prepared to take a risk to compensate for this
A: Tend to Disagree
Q: Keeping my money intact is more important to me than the impact of inflation on 
it
 A: Tend to Agree
Q: I prefer investments with the least risk to my money even if they could offer lower 
growth
A: Tend to Agree
Q: Maintaining the money I have is more important to me than making it grow
A: Strongly Agree
Q: Ups and downs in the value of my money are acceptable to achieve potentially 
better growth over the long term
A: Tend to Disagree
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think Mrs V was more likely (than not) a no 
risk investor. So whilst the Momentum Income Portfolio mightve been a low risk investment 
fund  invested in around nine other funds with 15% in equities  Im not persuaded that Mrs 
V was prepared to take any risk. 
I think its more likely than not that Mrs V relied on the advice she was given rather than on 
the documentation. I dont think its the case that she wouldnt have read the information but 
rather that she relied on what she was told by the adviser. I note she signed the questionnaire to confirm the information was correct  particularly in 
relation to her attitude to risk, but I think she would have done so on advice. Nevertheless, it 
was made clear that she wasnt willing to risk her capital even at the risk of making no return. 
That suggests to me that she was a no risk investor.
 
Putting things right
Because I dont think Mrs V was prepared to take any risk, as opposed to a small risk , I 
dont think the investigators recommendation to use the average rate fixed rate bond 
benchmark is unsuitable.
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs V 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. I take the view that Mrs V would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs V's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
 what should Lloyds do? 
 To compensate Mrs V fairly, Lloyds must: 
 Compare the performance of Mrs V's investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
OEIC. 
Momentum 
Income 
Portfolio surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
 actual value            
 This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
 fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Lloyds totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mrs V wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs V's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs V would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
 My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Lloyds Bank PLC should provide details of its calculation to Mrs V in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman