DRN-1314928
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in September 1999 and July 2000 in connection with unsecured personal loans. 
Mrs T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold the policies. 
What happened
Mrs T says that Nationwide mis-sold her two PPI policies when she took out two unsecured 
loans in 1999 and 2000.
In September 1999, Mrs T contacted Nationwide for a personal loan of £3,500 to be repaid 
over 36 months. At the same time a PPI policy was purchased that provided cover for her. 
The policy provided accident and sickness cover for the full 36 months of the loan and also 
12 months cover in the event of unemployment. It also provided life cover. The PPI cost 
£12.42 per month once the cost of the premium and interest were taken into account, and it 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £128.70 in the event of a successful claim.
In July 2000, Mrs T contacted Nationwide for a personal loan of £4,000 and her previous 
loan was repaid. At the same time a PPI policy was purchased. The policy provided cover for 
Mrs T, and covered her for accident and sickness for the full 36 months of the loan and also 
provided 12 months cover in the event of unemployment. It also provided her with life cover. 
The PPI cost £14.19 per month once the cost of the premium and interest were taken into 
account, and it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £147.08 in the event of a successful claim.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said that he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
was satisfied that the policies were optional, and that Mrs T chose to buy them.
Mrs T disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Nationwide says that all its PPI sales were carried out on a non-advised basis, (irrespective 
of whether the sale was carried out on the telephone or face to face). It says that it provided 
information about the policies but did not provide advice or a recommendation to Mrs T; it 
sold the PPI policies on an information only basis. So, in the absence of any testimony from 
Mrs T on this subject, Ive determined this complaint on the basis that Nationwide did not 
provide advice.
This means that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policies were suitable for Mrs T, but it did have to provide her with clear information to enable her to make an informed 
choice about what she was buying. If adequate information was provided, it was Mrs Ts 
responsibility to assess whether or not the cover met her needs, taking into account any 
benefits or policies that she already had, before making the decision to purchase. If 
adequate information wasnt provided, I need to decide whether this information would have 
influenced Mrs Ts decision to take the policies.
Were the PPI policies optional?
Mrs Ts representative says that she was not made aware of the optional nature of either of 
the policies; she felt she had to take the PPI in order to be granted the loans. Nationwide 
says that the documentation from the time of the sale shows that the PPI policies were 
optional.
I dont know what Nationwides representative said during the discussions in 1999 and 2000. 
And in the absence of any recording of those discussions it is of course much harder to 
come to a clear view on exactly what was said during a conversation that took place more 
than 20 years ago. And while I have taken into account Mrs Ts recollections, I am also 
mindful of the fact the passage of time is likely to create difficulties in recalling exactly what 
happened all those years ago.
Ive considered this matter carefully, but based on the documentary evidence I have seen, 
Im not persuaded that the policies werent presented as being optional. 
The loan agreements detail the costs of the policies under a heading Optional Credit 
Insurance. And from what I now about the Nationwide sales at this time, the Loan 
Agreement Terms and Conditions stated, You understand that the credit insurance is 
Optional. I understand that a personal loan welcome booklet would also have been issued 
to Mrs T following both sales and that they made reference to the optional nature of the 
insurance policies.
Ive noted that both loan agreements are pre-populated, and Ive considered this carefully. 
But on the basis that the sales took place on the telephone, and the fact that the loan details 
together with Mrs Ts personal details are typed on both sets of paperwork, I think that the 
sales representative simply completed the paperwork on-screen before giving it to her to 
check, sign and return.
So, while I accept its possible she was told she had to have PPI, Im not persuaded there is 
sufficient weight of evidence for me to conclude that this was more likely. I consider it just as 
likely that the policies were presented as being optional and that she chose to take them out 
as she had some interest in protecting her loan payments.
Did Nationwide give clear, fair and not misleading information?
At the time of both sales, Mrs T was employed, resident in the UK and in good health and 
was therefore eligible for the cover that the policies provided and would not have been 
caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions of the cover such as those relating 
to health conditions or unusual employment terms. 
Mrs T says that she had the benefit of some occupational sick pay. However, as a non-
advised sale, it was incumbent on Nationwide only to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI policies; it was not required to take into account any existing cover 
arrangements or to comment on the policies suitability for Mrs T. The policies were optional, 
and the sales were on a non-advised basis; it was therefore Mrs Ts choice whether to 
purchase the policies and add to her existing arrangements.Information was provided in both loan agreements about costs. Both loan agreements set 
out the separate cost of the loan and the PPI, what interest was applicable to each element 
and the monthly repayment that applied respectively. I am therefore satisfied the cost of 
each policy was made clear.
Ive noted that both policies provided a pro-rata rebate of the single premium amount upon 
cancellation. This means that Mrs T wasnt disadvantaged if she wanted to repay a loan 
early or cancel a PPI policy. Furthermore, the term of each policy (and the protection it 
offered) matched the term of the corresponding loan, so the policies were flexible to meet 
her changing needs and circumstances.
I accept it is possible that Mrs T may feel that her information needs may not have been 
properly met, but I am not persuaded that she was disadvantaged to the extent that she 
would most likely have acted differently and declined either policy had she been more fully 
informed about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman