DRN-3693575
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 20 October 2021, Mr and Mrs K booked a trip abroad. They were due to depart on 13 
November 2021. On 21 October 2021, they took out an annual travel insurance policy. 
Cover began on the policy began that day.
Sadly, on 9 November 2021, Mrs Ks father, who Ill call Mr E, was diagnosed with two types 
of advanced cancer. Their travel agent was unable to provide Mr and Mrs K with any refund 
of their booking costs. So Mr and Mrs K cancelled their holiday and made a claim on their 
travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the cancellation of their trip.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It noted from the medical certificate completed by Mr Es 
GP that Mr E had first consulted about his illness on 14 September 2021. And it understood 
that Mr E had been referred for tests, which had resulted in his eventual diagnosis. The 
policy excluded claims arising from a policyholders relatives pre-existing medical 
conditions. Based on the available evidence, Great Lakes concluded that Mr and Mrs K had 
been aware of Mr Es medical condition when they took out the policy and so it concluded 
their claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said Mr E had been thought to be suffering from a hernia or an ulcer. Theyd 
had no idea that he was or could be suffering from cancer and they wouldnt have booked a 
holiday if theyd known. And they said that one of the cancers was wholly separate and was 
only discovered during other tests.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
GPs medical certificate stated that Mr and Mrs K couldnt have been aware of or anticipated 
Mr Es illness at the time the policy was taken out. Therefore, she didnt think it was fair for 
Great Lakes to turn down the claim and she recommended that Great Lakes should pay it. 
And she thought that Great Lakes handling of the claim had caused Mr and Mrs K trouble 
and upset at an already distressing time. So she recommended that Great Lakes should pay 
Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation.
Great Lakes disagreed. It maintained that the circumstances of the claim were specifically 
excluded by the policy terms and conditions. And it said that as Mr E had been under 
investigation at the time the policy was taken out, Mr and Mrs K had been aware of his 
medical condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks claim 
and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr and Mrs K and their family for the loss of 
Mr E, who I understand sadly passed away earlier this year. I dont doubt what an upsetting 
time this has been for them.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Great 
Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first turned the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr and Mrs K and Great Lakes. Its common ground that the cancellation section of 
the policy covers the cancellation of a holiday due to the illness of a policyholders relative. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K have shown that their trip was cancelled due to Mr Es 
diagnosis and illness.
Pages 10 and 11 set out a declaration of important questions relating to a policyholders 
and their relatives health. The policy says:
There is no cover for claims relating directly or indirectly to the Pre-existing Medical 
Conditions of any Insured Person or of others on whom Your trip may depend unless they 
are declared to Us and We accept them in writing. Please declare Pre-existing Medical 
Conditions by screening them by calling Our Medical Screening Helpline...
Great Lakes has included the following definition as part of its wider definition of a pre-
existing medical condition:
Any medical condition suffered by an Insured Person, a Relative, Colleague, or someone 
with whom You are going to travel or stay which could reasonably be expected to give rise to 
a claim, that You or any Insured Person was aware of before this Policy was bought, or an
Insured Journey was booked or started, whichever is later.
Most of the declaration questions relate to a policyholders health. But question eight asks:
Is any Insured Person, or Relative or Colleague of an Insured Person, or someone with 
whom You are going to travel or stay, suffering from a medical condition which could 
reasonably be expected to give rise to a claim? If No, please proceed to the next question....
Question 9 asks: Are You or any other Insured Person currently aware of any other 
circumstances which are likely to lead to a claim being made under this Policy?
If the answers to the questions are no, then the declaration section says that a policyholder 
doesnt need to contact Great Lakes.
The cancellation section of the policy includes a list of events which Great Lakes excludes 
from cover. One of these is:
Any claim arising from circumstances that could reasonably have been anticipated at the 
time the trip was booked or the Policy was purchased, whichever is later.The policy also lists a specific set of General Exclusions which apply to all claims. One of 
these says that Great Lakes wont cover: Any Pre-existing Medical Condition(s) unless the 
appropriate additional premium has been paid and they have been accepted by Us in 
writing.
Great Lakes considers that Mr E was suffering from a pre-existing medical condition at the 
time of taking out the policy, as he was under investigation. And it considers that Mr and Mrs 
K were aware of this and couldve reasonably anticipated that they might need to make a 
claim. So Ive considered the available evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion 
for Great Lakes to draw.
Ive looked closely at the medical certificate which was completed by Mr Es GP. I accept 
that the certificate does say that the GP was first consulted about the condition causing the 
claim on 14 September 2021. However, the form also asks:
If the patient was not travelling, could the travelling person(s) have foreseen or anticipated 
any possibility that the medical condition or related condition could have caused the 
cancellation of the trip?
This question applied to both the date the trip was booked and the date the policy was taken 
out. The GP answered no. And Mr and Mrs K say that their understanding was that following 
Mr Es September 2021 GP appointment, hed been referred for tests for a stomach ulcer or 
hernia. Theres nothing on the medical certificate which suggests why Mr E was referred or 
what tests he was referred for, but I find Mr and Mrs Ks testimony on this point both 
plausible and persuasive. While Mr and Mrs K may have been aware that Mr E was being 
referred for tests, Ive seen no evidence that either they or indeed, Mr E, had any knowledge 
that he was potentially suffering from a very serious condition. I also accept that Mr and Mrs 
K were unlikely to have thought theyd need to make a claim had Mr E been diagnosed with 
a hernia or an ulcer.
As Ive set out above, the declaration asks a policyholder if their relative is suffering from a 
medical condition which would be reasonably likely to lead to a claim. The GP stated that Mr 
and Mrs K couldnt have foreseen that Mr Es condition would lead to a claim and so I think 
Mr and Mrs K could reasonably answer no to this question. So I dont think theyd have 
reasonably understood a referral for a test to look into a potential hernia or ulcer to be a 
medical condition which Great Lakes would want to know about. Id add too that Mr and Mrs 
K say that one Mr Es cancer diagnoses was entirely separate to the condition under 
investigation and was discovered through other tests. This cancer required surgery. In my 
view then, this particular condition falls outside of the scope of the pre-existing condition 
exclusion clause and in and of itself is likely to have been an understandable reason for Mr 
and Mrs K to cancel the trip.
Overall then, I dont think Great Lakes acted fairly or reasonably when it declined to pay Mr 
and Mrs Ks claim. So I find that it must now settle their claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy and subject to the applicable excess. Great Lakes must 
add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the 
date of settlement.
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle claims fairly. Ive explained why I didnt think it did 
so in this case. Ive also borne in mind that Mr and Mrs K were going through a very difficult 
time and a bereavement whilst dealing with the claim. And I dont doubt that Great Lakes 
handling of the claim caused them unnecessary and avoidable distress and upset. So I 
agree with our investigator that Great Lakes must pay Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation to 
reflect the trouble and upset its decline of their claim caused them. I appreciate Mr and Mrs 
K say that Great Lakes refusal to accept the investigators view has caused them additional stress. But both parties are entitled to request an ombudsmans decision as a part of our 
process and complaint handling in and of itself isnt regulated. This means I dont think I can 
reasonably make any additional award to reflect this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
- Settle Mr and Mrs ks claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy and subject to the policy excess. It must add interest to this amount at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman