DRN-4209748
The complaint
Mr W complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy. He says there were delays to the repairs to his car.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here in 
detail. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr W had a car accident and made a claim on the motor insurance policy he had with UKI. 
He decided to use his own preferred garage for the work. 
During the claim, UKI limited the way it would communicate with Mr W to written 
communications only due to the way hed spoken to its staff. Mr W says this caused 
avoidable delays in his car being returned which meant his car was further damaged, he had 
to pay storage costs at the garage, and he lost earnings. He also said UKI gave him poor 
service. 
When Mr W contacted UKI about this it said there were occasions Mr W hadnt been called 
back. It accepted a call he had with an engineer may have upset him, although it wasnt able 
to listen to it. So, it offered Mr W £100 as compensation to put things right. 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service for an independent review. The Investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and its now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr W Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen any evidence UKI unreasonably or unfairly 
restricted the way it communicated with Mr W in light of his treatment of its staff. UKI agreed 
to speak to Mr W through a representative and I can see it did this from the notes. It also 
communicated with him by email and webchat was available too. So, I dont agree it needed 
to do more to liaise effectively with Mr W given it was his behaviour which led to UKI 
changing the way it communicated with him. 
Ive noted there were some delays in this matter, but this was primarily because of Mr Ws 
actions at the outset of the claim - deciding whether hed make a claim at all and his 
garages availability as well as that of the parts required to fix his car. 
Mr W says the invoice submitted to UKI by his garage was correct long before it was paid 
and UKI didnt communicate with the garage properly about it. He says this caused delays in 
his car being returned to him and emails from the garage prove this. Ive thought about these 
emails as well as the evidence our service holds in this matter, which includes notes from 
UKIs system. Having done so, I can see the garage sent UKI a number of emails for 
payment. It was noticed the garage had been using an incorrect email address at one point 
and this was put right. Even so, UKI had been calling the garage to chase the invoice and, 
even after the correct email address was used, the garage didnt submit the invoice in a form 
which would allow payment to be made. For example, it sent estimates rather than the 
invoice and used the wrong claim number. It also included an item UKI hadnt agreed to be 
responsible for and some of the amounts on the invoice needed to be changed. 
Notwithstanding this, payment was raised by UKI within a week of receiving the corrected 
invoice. And, as mentioned above, there were substantial delays caused by other matters. 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied UKI caused the avoidable delays Mr W says 
it did. It follows its not liable for the impact of the delays Mr W experienced.
UKI sent £100 to Mr W. I find this to be a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint Mr 
W has raised about any service issues he experienced. And its likely more than I wouldve 
awarded. I say this because Mr W was told UKI wouldnt communicate with him on the 
phone, but he repeatedly called and asked for call backs. Several call backs werent made 
but this was as a result of the adjusted way it was communicating with Mr W so I dont 
consider this to be unfair or unreasonable. Also, taking the notes and calls into account, 
including one call just after the engineer had called Mr W, I dont feel able to conclude its 
more likely the engineer spoke to him in a way which warrants a compensatory payment 
being made. 
Mr W says he feels UKI has discriminated against him given the problems hes experienced. 
Having looked at all the evidence I dont think UKI has done so. Nor do I think UKI has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr W to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into his concerns.
I recognise Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
29 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman