DRN-3983143
The complaint
Mrs L is a sole trader, trading as A. She complains that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a transaction she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus accepted this was an unauthorised transaction. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it asserts Mrs L 
failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep her 
personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Mrs L failed with 
gross negligence  or, in other words, that she acted with very significant 
carelessness; seriously disregarded an obvious risk; or acted so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done. Ill explain why.
Mrs L was called by someone posing as Cashplus. She said they knew information 
about her and her business, A, and the call sounded familiar  they took her through 
verification. So I can see why Mrs L trusted the caller  I think a lot of people 
wouldve done. 
She was told there had been fraudulent transactions on As account and theyd need 
a code that theyd send by text to verify her. She said she shared this after reading it 
in preview on her phone, so she didnt realise it was connected to a payment.
Cashplus submit it was grossly negligent to not open the message in full before 
sharing the code with an unexpected caller. Reading messages in preview is a 
commonly used feature by lots of people. And given that the code appeared first in 
the message without any accompanying warning, Im not satisfied Ls actions meant 
she fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done. 
Ive also considered how Mrs L was primed to expect the code from who she thought 
was her trusted bank. So when the message came thought from Cashplus as 
expected, I can see how she felt comfortable sharing it. Particularly as shed not 
shared other information during the call, like her card details, that might have made 
her suspicious. It seems the fraudster already had these before the call  and we 
know there are lots of ways these couldve been compromised, with or without 
Mrs Ls involvement.   
It follows that I dont think Cashplus has shown Mrs L failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude that A isnt liable for the transaction and Cashplus needs to put things 
right  by refunding As losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest 
to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold As complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) must:
Pay A the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £3,913.67.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman