DRN-2129219
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) refused to refund an international money
transfer that did not reach the beneficiaries bank account.
What happened
Mrs O has a bank account with Lloyds and visited her local branch to carry out an
international bank transfer. Mrs O subsequently found out from the beneficiary that the funds
hadnt arrived. Mrs O with the help of her daughter made several trips to her bank branch to
find out the whereabouts of the payment. Lloyds checked with the beneficiary bank who then
asked for forwarding account details which Lloyds provided, but the funds still didnt arrive in
the beneficiary account. Mrs O says she had to make alternative arrangements to make the
international payment which has cost her more international fees and the amount
transferred. Mrs O complained to Lloyds and asked for a refund, but this was refused.
Lloyds say they have carried out the transfer as instructed by Mrs O and have provided the
recipient bank with the necessary information to trace the payment and its not their error
that these funds havent been located. Lloyds say they have contacted the recipient bank on
a number of occasions in an attempt to get the monies returned.
Mrs O wasnt happy with Lloyds response , she says she trusted her bank to ensure the
payment details were correct as she had carried out a similar payment in the past. As a
result, Mrs O referred the matter to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would be stressful and worrying for Mrs O to find that the
international payment she instructed from her account hadnt been received by the
beneficiary and subsequently not returned to her account because it couldnt be traced.
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Lloyds have been at fault when making
the international payment on behalf of Mrs O. It is important to understand the events that
took place at the time of the transfer and the subsequent actions Lloyds took to help Mrs O
recover the payment.
What happened here was when Mrs O gave instructions to Lloyds to make the international 
payment part of the account details werent included, this would have been important to help
identify the beneficiary account. Mrs O says that she has made similar payments before and
trusted her bank to make the payment correctly knowing this. While I take the point that
Lloyds are experienced in making international payments, they are reliant on their customers
to provide the full details of the payment to them. I cant see any evidence provided by Mrs
O to show that she asked them to make the payment based on previous payments to the
same payee.
Part of Lloyds process when making international payments is to check the details with the
customer before sending and on balance, I am satisfied that is what would have happened
here.
It follows that I cant hold Lloyds responsible for sending the payment without the full account
details which may have contributed to the funds not arriving at the beneficiarys bank
account.
I have also looked at whether Lloyds looked to help Mrs O after the funds hadnt arrived at
the beneficiarys bank account. I have seen evidence that shows Lloyds provided the
account details to the recipient bank and followed this up with, what is known as, swift
messages on a number of occasions to try to locate the whereabouts of the funds. Lloyds
have also confirmed that they have asked the recipients to carry out an investigation and
continue to try and obtain a refund of the payment. With this in mind I am satisfied that
Lloyds have supported Mrs O here in trying to get her international payment returned.
From the information provided to this service , I cannot see that Lloyds have made an error
when making the international payment as they have followed the instructions given to them.
If there is a fault here it would seem to be with the recipient bank not being able to locate the
funds at their end.
I understand that Mrs O will be disappointed with my decision, but it follows that I wont be
asking anymore of Lloyds here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman