DRN-3142342
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited held him at fault following a claim made on his 
commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a collision with another driver at a roundabout. Mr S said he was 
already established on the roundabout and the other driver should have given way to him. 
Aviva initially defended Mr S, but it accepted liability when the other insurer provided 
dashcam footage that showed Mr S driving across the top of the roundabout and into the 
path of the other driver. But Mr S said he was indicating and had right of way. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
had reasonably decided to accept liability after viewing the dashcam footage. She thought it 
was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So she thought it didnt need to do 
anything further. 
Mr S replied that hed driven across the top of the roundabout to avoid a hole and he thought 
the other driver should have stopped for him. Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said he was turning right at the roundabout when the other driver pulled out in front of 
him. Aviva thought the collision could have been avoided if Mr S had followed his path 
around the roundabout. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr S the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that Aviva is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr S to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
Aviva described what it saw in the dashcam footage:
When reviewing the Third-Party dashcam, as they enter the roundabout, there is a car in 
front of you. It is this car which would have been the Third-Partys focus when entering the 
roundabout. As this car is proceeding forward, the Third-Party car was free to enter the 
roundabout as there was nothing coming from the right.
Both the Third-Party and yourself enter the roundabout at a similar time. As the Third-Party 
passes the roundabout, you can be seen cutting the roundabout and colliding with the Third-
Party.
Mr S told us that hed driven across the roundabout to avoid a hole. He told Aviva that 
everyone drove across the top of the roundabout to avoid a drain and a dip in the road. But 
the dashcam footage shows other drivers following the path around the roundabout. And 
Aviva pointed out that the Highway Code required all drivers to follow their path around the 
roundabout. 
So Aviva said it couldnt defend the claim and so it settled it. I can see that it had lengthy 
email discussions with Mr S about why it had made this decision and I think it reasonably 
considered his arguments. 
So I think Aviva made its decision to accept liability after reasonably investigating the claim 
and considering the evidence available. I think its entitled to do this by the policys terms 
and conditions. So I cant say it has treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman