DRN-3897389
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined his 
personal accident insurance claim.
What happened
Mr T has a group personal accident policy. RSA is the underwriter on the policy.
In November 2017, Mr T registered a claim following an accident he had at work. He said he 
slipped and landed on his back while wearing body armour. He had an MRI scan which 
showed he had a prolapsed disc. He was signed off work and was referred to a specialist.
RSA accepted Mr Ts claim for Temporary Total Disablement (TTD) and benefits were paid 
over the course of two years. During this time, Mr T had several appointments, which 
included surgery, physiotherapy and tests. Mr Ts specialist recommended that he doesnt 
return to work to his previous occupation and that he would be most suited for an office job.
Mr T registered a claim for Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) benefit. RSA requested 
evidence from Mr Ts specialist to establish the cause of his disability as required under the 
policy terms. Medical evidence was provided and reviewed by RSA who said Mr Ts 
disability was caused by a degenerative condition, which might have been triggered by the 
accident. It said the specialist confirmed Mr T had mechanical back pain and L5/S1 
degeneration and that there was a central disc protrusion that compressed the left side more 
than the right side. RSA didnt think the accident itself was the sole and independent cause 
of his condition. It spoke to Mr Ts specialist again in February 2020 and they confirmed an 
MRI scan of his lower back showed no further need for treatment, the scan confirmed there 
was nothing that concerned the specialist and the x-ray of the lumbar spine also looked fine. 
RSA therefore declined Mr Ts claim as it didnt meet the criteria required under the PTD 
section of the policy.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and upheld the 
complaint. She concluded that she didnt think the medical evidence available showed Mr Ts 
condition was degenerative and wasnt conclusive. She didnt think RSA had fairly declined 
his claim for PTD benefit. She recommended that RSA pay a 50% contribution of the PTD 
benefit.
RSA disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. It said the accident Mr T had suffered wasnt a 
trigger and it wasnt the sole and independent cause of the injury. This is because:
Mr Ts medical records clearly show hes had issues with his back prior to the 
accident on 27 November 2017.
He has had eight injuries to his neck and back from 1998 to 2015.
His consultant confirmed that he has a slightly abnormal disc, and he is at higher risk 
than anyone else of his age group of having significant trouble from his disc.
The radiologists report makes reference to degenerative changes in the thoracic and 
lumbar spine.
Mr Ts benefits fall under the standard scale and under this no percentage of benefit 
is payable on his policy It therefore didnt agree to the 50% contribution 
recommended by the investigator.
I issued a provisional decision and said the following:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr T. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Im not a medical professional. In order to reach any decision on the cause of Mr Ts medical 
condition, it is necessary for me to rely on the information provided from those experts who 
have seen and treated him.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Mr Ts policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of his 
insurance contract with RSA.The relevant section on page 10 regarding PTD states:
The Cover
If during the Operative Time the Insured person sustains bodily injury following an
Accident which within two years is the sole and independent cause of Death or
Disablement the Company will pay to the Insured Person the appropriate Benefit
shown in the Schedule subject to the Maximum Incident Limit (and inner limits where
applicable) as detailed in the Schedule.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that RSA were fair and reasonable to focus on trying to 
establish whether the accident in 2017 was the sole cause of the injury being claimed for.
The terms and conditions go on to further state:Special Definitions Applying to this Section
Benefits
Standard Scale
1. Death
2. Loss of two or more Limbs or Loss of both Eyes or one of each3.A) Loss of one Limb or Loss of one Eye
B) Permanent total loss of speech
C) Permanent total loss of hearing
i) in both ears
ii) in one ear 30% of Benefit 3Ci)
4 Permanent Total Disablement from the Insured Persons usual occupation
in the Business
5 Temporary Total Disablement from the Insured Persons usual occupation
in the Business
6 Temporary Total Disablement from the Insured Persons usual occupation
in the Business
Exclusions to this Section:
The Company will not pay any Benefit where bodily injury following an Accident is the result 
of or is contributed to by
1
the Insured Person committing or attempting to commit suicide or as a result of self-inflicted 
injury
2
a) illness or disease (not resulting from bodily injury following an Accident) 
b) any naturally occurring condition or degenerative process
c) any gradually operating process
d) post-traumatic stress disorder or any psychological or psychiatric condition
(not resulting from bodily injury following an Accident).
Based on the above, its clear that there is cover for a PTD claim, providing the injury caused 
isnt as a result of a naturally occurring or degenerative condition. I understand this is the 
reason RSA has declined the claim.
Ill therefore go on to look at the medical evidence provided to decide whether RSA has 
declined Mr Ts claim fairly and reasonably.
Was Mr Ts accident the sole and independent cause of his disability?
I note that RSA requested Mr Ts past medical records following the complaint being referred 
to this service. I think it would have been helpful to have these at the start of the 
investigation to see the full picture of Mr Ts medical history.Medical records from 1998 to 2015
Ive reviewed all the medical evidence thats been made available to me.
RSA requested medical records for Mr T prior to the accident he had in 2017. I can see that 
Mr T has suffered with neck and back problems since 1998 to 2015.
In 2011, Mr Ts consultant orthopaedic surgeon said:
All the discs within the lumbar spine are normal apart from a degenerate disc at L5/S1 
which is narrow, dark and has a minor disc bulgeit is likely [Mr Ts] symptoms are coming 
from a degenerate disc. He has had symptoms in the low back previously again likely 
coming from that degenerate discI told him that although symptoms would probably settle 
and his physical functioning would return to absolutely normal, as indeed they did, he would 
remain with a degenerate disc in the low back.
[Mr T] wonders to what extent ongoing symptoms are related to the most recent accident he 
had, and I think one would have to say the accident caused a recurrence of his symptoms 
from a pre-existing and previously symptomatic problem in the low backAs far as the 
future is concerned the disc will obviously remain abnormal.
The consultant in the records confirmed Mr T had a slightly abnormal disc and that he was at 
higher risk than anyone else of his age group of having significant further trouble from that 
disc. And the radiologist has referred to degenerative changes in the thoracic and lumbar 
spine.
Over time, from 1998 to 2015, Mr Ts medical history shows he has been to see a GP or 
specialist with back and spine problems.
Medical records since November 2017
The spinal consultant in April 2019 said it was impossible to prove if deterioration of Mr Ts 
level L5/S1 disc was caused by an accident at work because there was no MRI scan before 
that accident.
In February 2020, RSA spoke to Mr Ts specialist and confirmed an MRI scan of his lower 
back showed there was no further need for any kind of treatment, all Mr Ts nerves were 
free. He also said there was nothing that concerned him that would give Mr T nerve root 
pain. An x-ray of Mr Ts lumbar spine was also done and that looked fine and although Mr T 
had back pain, it wasnt as bad as pre-surgery. He also confirmed the accident in November 
2017 was a trigger factor where Mr T had put his spine to the point of no return. He further 
said it was impossible to prove the disc had become deteriorated because of the accident, 
as many people have the same disorder without having had an accident and can sometimes 
happen when someone coughs or sneezes. The specialist said the fall, for Mr T, was a 
trigger factor.
Its clear from the medical professionals who do have the expertise to assess Mr Ts injury 
that the 2017 accident is likely a large part of the reason he was unable to work. But I cant 
agree that the evidence proves the November 2017 accident was the sole and independent 
cause of disablement as required in the policy terms. The claim falls short on the evidence 
available.
The medical evidence provided suggests that there is the possibility of degenerative 
changes playing a part, there are medical notes confirming back pain from 1998 and up to 
2015. Its not certain on the exact cause of Mr Ts inability to carry on working or whether each injury has contributed in part. Based on the medical records available to me, its 
evident that Mr T has suffered with back problems for a number of years prior to the accident 
in 2017 and the specialists he saw suggest that the condition was most likely a degenerative 
one.
Referring back to the policy term outlined above its not clear that the evidence provided 
sufficiently proves the 2017 accident was the sole, and independent cause of Mr Ts PTD 
benefit being claimed for, so Im minded to think RSA is fair in declining the claim.
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account. Im minded to think that Mr Ts claim for PTD hasnt 
been declined unfairly or unreasonably.
RSA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr T did 
not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as I have received no further points or arguments from either party, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Based on the available circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that RSA hasnt 
declined Mr Ts complaint unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require RSA to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman