DRN-1371175
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet). He 
isnt happy about the way it dealt with the cancellation of his commercial insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P took out insurance through his broker Autonet in April 2019. When he looked to place a 
new vehicle on cover in June 2019, he wasnt happy with the price quoted and the service 
provided by Autonet. 
So, he cancelled his policy. After he cancelled the policy Mr P complained about the amount 
he was charged for time on cover and the service he was provided with. Autonet 
acknowledged that the service was poor and reduced its cancellation fee to £50. But Mr P 
remained unhappy, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but she didnt uphold the complaint. She was of 
the view that Autonets charges were fair and had been outlined in the initial policy 
documentation. She did acknowledge that the service provided by one of the call takers was 
poor. But she believed that Autonets reduction in its cancellation charge was fair.
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Mr P is frustrated by the charges applied when he cancelled his policy. 
But Autonet outlined these in its policy documentation and I dont think they are 
unreasonable. And I know Mr P has also complained about the time on risk and charges his 
insurer charged as well, which also impacted on the total charge.
I would expect an insurance broker to make its charges clear so that a consumer fully 
understands what will happen if they cancel the policy. And having looked at the 
documentation it makes clear that various charges will be applied if the policy is cancelled 
including a cancellation fee. 
As such, I think the charges that applied by Autonet are reasonable. It has charged a 
cancellation fee (which it reduced), a set up fee of £40 and a small loss of commission fee of 
£7.91 in addition to the time on risk charged by the insurer. I dont think this is unreasonable, 
especially as these are outlined in the policy documentation so Mr P should have been 
aware of this.
It is unfortunate that Autonet couldnt get a cheaper premium for Mr P when he changed 
vehicles which ultimately caused the cancellation of the policy. But I dont think Autonet has acted unreasonably in charging the fees that it has. I know Mr P doesnt feel this is fair but 
as the charges are clearly outlined, I cant say Autonet has done anything wrong here.
Finally, turning to the poor service provided I agree that the call taker could have been more 
professional in their dealings with Mr Ps wife. Although generally its call takers were 
professional and helpful it acknowledged the poor service here and agreed to reduce the 
cancellation fee by about £20 and to provide some management advice to the call taker 
which seems fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman