DRN-3908535
The complaint
This complaint is about misinformation Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of
Scotland) gave them in relation to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E held an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland that was due to mature 
in September 2025. 
Mr and Mrs E say they were given incorrect information by a representative of 
Bank of Scotland that has resulted in financial loss. Mr and Mrs E understood they had 
overpaid around £60,000 on their mortgage and they wanted to use this to do some home 
improvements. They say they spoke to Bank of Scotland on the phone about this but were 
told they couldnt withdraw the overpayments theyd made as there were insufficient funds 
available on the overdraft facility of their account. To get around this, they say the 
representative told them they could stop paying their contractual monthly payments 
(CMPs) for up to six years  allowing them to make use of the monthly CMPs to complete 
the improvements.
As a result, Mr and Mrs E say they stopped paying their CMPs following October 2019s 
payment. But, in the meantime, they decided they wanted to downsize and become 
mortgage free. So, they found a new property they wanted to buy in 2021. Mr and Mrs E say 
they were under the impression they had only used around £15,000 of their overpayments 
during the period they stopped making their CMPs. Based on their calculations, they 
expected to have an additional £45,000 owed to them after they redeemed their mortgage. 
They say, it was on this basis they proceeded to sell their home and put plans in place to 
purchase the new home.
Mr and Mrs E say, when all of the figures had been worked out, it came to light the total 
figure they would have after selling their property would not increase by £45,000. By the time 
Mr and Mrs E found out about the difference, they were already committed to the sale of 
their existing home, which went ahead, and their mortgage was paid off on 30 June 2021. 
Then, after the redemption of their mortgage, there was a shortfall in funds coming in from 
the sale of their house, and they were forced to withdraw from the purchase of the new 
property. Mr and Mrs E say they lost all associated costs including solicitor fees, surveyors 
fees and rental costs as they had nowhere to move into.
Mr and Mrs E complain they wouldnt have sold their home if it werent for the misinformation 
they were given by Bank of Scotland and they think they should be compensated for the fees 
they had to pay as well as the rental costs. Theyre also concerned their outstanding 
mortgage balance exceeded £1,000,000, as they understood this was not allowed under the 
terms of their agreement. As such, they think the balance is incorrect as its higher than they 
expected.
Bank of Scotland looked into Mr and Mrs Es concerns and although it couldnt find a copy of 
a call recording relating to the misinformation Mr and Mrs E say they were given, it accepted 
Mr and Mrs Es version of events  that they were told they could stop making their CMPs for 
six years. So, Bank of Scotland arranged a reconstruction of Mr and Mrs Es mortgage 
account and refunded the additional interest theyd been charged, totalling £54.39. Bank of 
Scotland added £6.49 for loss of use during this time as well as £200 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. But Bank of Scotland confirmed Mr and Mrs E were not owed 
£45,000 as these funds had already been accounted for by the overall balance of their 
mortgage account.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Es concerns, but they didnt think Bank of Scotland 
needed to do anything more to resolve the complaint. As Mr and Mrs E disagreed, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 5 December 2022 
and explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Following my provisional decision, Bank of Scotland confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt accept my findings. They submitted further evidence to support their 
view that Bank of Scotland gave them inaccurate information during the phone call. Mr and 
Mrs E remain of the view this is what led them to pull out of their property purchase. So, they 
think Bank of Scotland should offer additional compensation for the financial losses they 
incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The crux of the complaint Mr and Mrs E have raised is that they say Bank of Scotland led 
them to believe they had an additional £45,000 in available funds. So, I have to decide 
whether I think its more likely than not the Bank of Scotland representative said this to them 
during the phone call that took place. And, whether it would have been reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs E to have relied on this information, despite the mortgage account information 
accessible to them.
While Bank of Scotland accepted responsibility for misinforming Mr and Mrs E they could 
stop making their CMPs for six years based on the total amount of overpayments they had 
made to their mortgage account, it hasnt accepted that it told Mr and Mrs E £45,000 in 
overpayments would be repayable to them. Theres no call recording available to support 
what Mr and Mrs E have said, I only have their testimony that this is what happened. 
Mr and Mrs E provided completion statements which they said proved they would have been 
able to purchase their new home were it not for the misinformation provided by Bank of 
Scotland. I looked at the completion statements before issuing my provisional decision and 
found that Mr and Mrs E appeared to have a shortfall of £102,577.24 for the new property 
purchase. So, I said, even with the £45,000, they still had a shortfall of £57,577.24.Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs E how they intended on making up for that shortfall. At 
the time, Mr and Mrs E said Mrs E had savings of around £35,000 and they intended to 
borrow the rest, a maximum of £20,000, from relatives. Because of this, I said that I hadnt 
seen any evidence of the savings or an agreement for them to borrow from relatives. And I 
went on to say that due to other information provided by Bank of Scotland, call notes that 
suggested Mr and Mrs E owed sums that would more likely than not also have to be repaid, I 
didnt think Mr and Mrs E would have been in a position to proceed with the sale even if they 
did have the additional £45,000. 
Mr and Mrs E have now provided a screenshot to confirm Mrs E held over £57,000 in an 
account at the time and they say they could have used this to make up the shortfall. Ive 
thought about this carefully, and this does give some weight to Mr and Mrs Es argument that 
they had to pull out of the sale because they were expecting to receive an additional £45,000 
from Bank of Scotland. But, this doesnt remove the main issue I have to decide, which is 
whether I think its more likely than not the Bank of Scotland representative told Mr and Mrs 
E they would receive a refund of their overpayments in addition to what was left over from 
the sale of their property, following the redemption of their mortgage. 
As Ive said previously, theres no call recording available, and up until recently, Mr and 
Mrs E hadnt said they were told the funds were being kept in a separate account. Mr and 
Mrs Es initial explanation of the call was that they were told they could stop making their 
CMPs as a way to gain funds given they werent allowed to withdraw from the account due 
to the account being close to its limit. At no point did Mr and Mrs E say they were told any 
overpayments would be credited back to them if they redeemed their mortgage before the 
six-year period ended, they have only raised this now. 
When Mr and Mrs Es made the call in question, I understand their intention was to withdraw 
the overpayments in one lump sum. But, both parties agree they were told that wasnt 
possible. My understanding is that this was because they were close to the limit of their 
account, and the terms and conditions of the account said that they could not go over that 
limit  even if they had made overpayments in the past. This is why the above option, to stop 
making CMPs for six years, was offered as an alternative. 
We have established that this advice was incorrect. But, that doesnt mean the 
representative told them they would receive a refund or that the funds were in a separate 
account. Based on the nature of the phone call, I think its more likely than not the adviser 
wouldnt have had any need to say this. They advised Mr and Mrs E they couldnt withdraw 
the funds at that time, so I dont think they would have said they could in future without the 
account balance having reduced enough for them to do so. Considering everything, I think 
its more likely than not Mr and Mrs E may have misinterpreted what was said. 
Mr and Mrs E now say they were categorically told the funds were held in a separate 
account. But there was no mention of a separate account on any of the documentation they 
were provided with when they took the account. And Mr and Mrs E were sent annual 
statements which showed all of their overpayments were applied to the outstanding balance 
on their mortgage account at the time they were paid. So, even if the representative had said 
the funds were held separately, I think Mr and Mrs E have been provided with enough 
information over the years to have questioned this. Particularly if they were going to make a 
major decision such as selling their home based on this information alone. I also think 
Mr and Mrs E would have been aware the overpayments theyd made were already reflected 
on the balance of their account. I say this because I think its more likely than not they would 
have checked the large sums had been applied, if not immediately, then later on when they 
received the relevant annual statements. I understand Mr and Mrs E still believe they should have had an excess of around £45,000. 
They think, because they had made overpayments totalling around £60,000 several years 
ago, and they only stopped making their CMPs for around 18 months, roughly £45,000 of 
their overpayments should have remained. Mr and Mrs E query what would have happened 
to those overpayments if they werent in a separate account, because they say the balance 
of their mortgage account is too high for them to have already been factored in. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, my role, at this service, is to work out whether the 
business did anything wrong on an informal basis. I cant provide an in-depth analysis of 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage account, I can only confirm that it looks as though there were both 
overpayments and withdrawals made. And as Mr and Mrs E made a number of significant 
withdrawals, I think this is more likely than not why the balance wasnt as high as Mr and 
Mrs E expected it to be. Mr and Mrs Es account balance was close to its limit around the 
time the call took place and I understand they were made aware of this, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest they complained about that at the time.
Mr and Mrs E are correct in saying their balance shouldnt have been allowed to go over 
£1,000,000. But this occurred due to the inaccurate information they received when they 
were trying to find a way to raise funds to complete their home improvements. If they hadnt 
followed this advice and continued making their CMPs as they were supposed to, they 
wouldnt have gone over the limit on their account. But, as they followed the advice they 
were given, they didnt contribute anything to the account, that was already close to its limit, 
and this inevitably took the balance over £1,000,000 when the regular interest was applied to 
the account every month for 18 months.
Its clear Mr and Mrs E shouldnt have been given that advice and Im satisfied Bank of 
Scotland has corrected this in the compensation its offered. But Im still not persuaded the 
representative told Mr and Mrs E they would receive an additional sum if they redeemed 
their mortgage early. And Im not persuaded it would have been reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs E to rely on this information without doing any further checks given the number of 
documents they would have received that confirmed there was no separate account and the 
£45,000 had been credited to their account as shown on their annual statements. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs E still have concerns that the balance on 
their account wasnt accurate, then they may wish to seek independent advice to have this 
reviewed by an appropriate third party.
Considering everything, I dont think Bank of Scotland is responsible for Mr and Mrs E
thinking they would receive an additional £45,000 when they redeemed their mortgage. It
follows, I cant hold Bank of Scotland responsible for the financial losses they incurred when
they realised they couldnt afford the property they wanted. And I think Bank of Scotlands
offer to refund the additional interest incurred as a result of them stopping their CMPs, along
with interest on that sum for loss of use, and £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
is fair in the circumstances.
I understand Bank of Scotland paid the proposed redress concerning their CMPs to
Mr and Mrs E already.  Bank of Scotland informed us its possible the receiving account had 
been closed prior to the payment being made and it asked Mr and Mrs E to provide evidence 
of this. Bank of Scotland says it will make the payments again if necessary. So, Mr and 
Mrs E may wish to contact Bank of Scotland to arrange this if they havent done so already.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman