DRN-4311749
The complaint
Mr P complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited havent handled claims, the 
cancellation of his policy, or his contacts with them fairly on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
As a summary, Mr Ps complaints are:
The length of time a claim he made in June 2021 is taking
The renewal price he was offered in September 2021
Errors made by Admiral with his No Claims Discount (NCD) during the renewal 
process in September 2021
That hes not been given any cost for the claim from June 2021
Being told payments wouldnt be taken until issues regarding his NCD had been 
resolved  but then payments were attempted to be taken
That Admiral cancelled his policy in November 2021 without telling him despite him 
having given them his correct contact details, and then after reinstating it cancelled it 
again in January 2022
Admiral have refused to indemnify him during the time his policy was cancelled
Hes received very poor customer service  with contacts regularly not being 
returned, including one specific email from a case handler
And that hes unclear how much is owing, how this amount has accrued, and that 
Admiral asked debt collectors to contact him
Across a number of responses, Admiral have said:
They accept they may have caused some confusion with the NCD
They agree they told Mr P they wouldnt take payments but have continued to try and 
do so, and
They can see Mr P has called many times trying to get this resolved, and call backs 
hes been promised havent always been made.
So they partially upheld his case for these issues they paid Mr P £275 in total (from what I 
can see, its £125 in November 2021, and then £150 in January 2022). For the remaining 
issues Mr P raised, in their responses to him, they didnt uphold them.
Unhappy with this, Mr P asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators did so, but ultimately felt Admiral had done enough to put matters 
right.
Mr P didnt agree  in summary saying his first claim hadnt been resolved, nor had his 
second claim, the customer service was appalling and he doesnt know if hes left with any 
debt. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
To help me decide this case, I arranged for us to ask Admiral a large number of questions 
and provide a significant amount of evidence. In response, Admiral said they hadnt treated 
Mr P fairly when cancelling his policy in November 2021 and offered £250 compensation to 
reflect that. Ive taken that into account when deciding what I think is a fair outcome.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ps complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Ill provide my thoughts on each issue, and then explain at the end how matters should be 
put right.
The length of time a claim he made in June 2021 is taking
Mr Ps concerns here are both that its been two years since the claim and no real progress 
has been made  and also that when hes contacted Admiral hes been told theyve not done 
anything for months at a time.
From the notes Admiral have provided theyve recorded Mr P said he wasnt prepared to pay 
his excess in order for the claim to be considered.
Admiral say because Mr P hasnt paid his excess, then technically there is no claim at this 
point for them to pursue matters. So, all they can do, is ask the other insurer to try and get 
them to take the matter to court.
I think at this point its helpful to explain how the claims process works. The excess payment 
is a contribution towards the insurers costs for dealing with the claim  whether the claim is 
or isnt the fault of the policyholder isnt relevant initially. Paying the excess means the claim 
has been accepted for consideration by the insurer, and theyll consider matters accordingly.
Here, Mr P has said hes not prepared to pay the excess. So, that means there is no claim  
that means technically Admiral are acting correctly in saying they cant take the matter to 
court  because as things stand Mr P hasnt allowed for the claim to go ahead.
Admiral cant provide the relevant call recordings  so I cant see how clear this was made to 
Mr P. But, I can see there has been times where Admiral havent chased up the other insurer 
as often as they perhaps could have  so Ill factor this in to my overall thoughts about how 
matters should be resolved.
If Mr P wants his claim to be progressed and potentially taken to court, then he may wish to 
discuss with Admiral how he can do that. I suspect theyd explain if he pays the excess and 
is later found to be not at fault for the accident, the excess will be repaid to him  and Admiral can carry out the repairs to the car if the claim is a valid one. But Id encourage him 
to have that conversation with Admiral at this stage  and if he remains unhappy then hed 
potentially be able to raise a new complaint. 
The renewal price he was offered in September 2021
The renewal price Mr P was initially quoted was £3,945.49. A policy was eventually taken 
out at this time. Notes show occupation, mileage and usage updated, which reduced 
premiums by £784.64 to £3,160.85  though the amount owing at this time was £3,216.02 
due to an additional premium from the previous policy year of £55.17 which was still owing. 
Ill explain this in more detail in a later section.
But, focusing back on the renewal price, I think its helpful to explain the cost of an insurance 
policy varies according to a large number of factors  some of which Ive listed above. Any 
claims could also impact on the cost.
Ive seen a copy of the underwriting and pricing information from Admiral to justify why the 
premium was increased. Im not able to share this, as its commercially sensitive, but Im 
satisfied with the information it contains. 
It shows me the reasons for Mr Ps policy increasing was fair. So, on this point I dont think 
Admiral did anything wrong.
Errors made by Admiral with his No Claims Discount (NCD) during the renewal process in 
September 2021
The current position of this issue is that Admiral accepted they made an error in the first 
phone call where NCD was discussed  and then later on when they changed Mr Ps NCD to 
zero years. It was October 2022 when Admiral realised this and said Mr Ps NCD should be 
two years.
Mr P has told us hes not able to get his new insurer to recalculate his premiums.
Ultimately, the error regarding this was Admirals  so if Mr Ps new insurer isnt going to 
recalculate his premiums to ensure hes not lost out, then putting this issue right falls to 
Admiral. So, Im upholding this element of Mr Ps complaint and again will address this at the 
end  taking into account the compensation Admiral offered for this issue.
That hes not been given any cost for the claim from June 2021
Mr P raised concerns hed not been told how much the claim was costing for the June 2021 
claim.
Admiral say usually its not something theyd share with policyholders, as the cost of the 
claim is taken on by them.
Generally Id agree Admiral are right and I think in Mr Ps case thats fair. They did though 
tell Mr P it was £640.26. And, more recently, theyve confirmed thats still the cost as theyve 
not progressed the claim because theyre waiting for the other insurer to admit liability or 
take the matter to court. 
So, on this point, I dont think Admiral have done anything wrong. 
Being told payments wouldnt be taken until issues regarding his NCD had been resolved  
but then payments were attempted to be takenWhen Mr P was talking to a manager on 18 September 2021 about the issues regarding his 
NCD this was also around the time his policy was due to renew. 
I can see its been accepted by all parties Mr P was told he wouldnt have to pay anything 
towards the cost of his new policy, until the complaint hed raised about this had been 
resolved.
Admirals manager seems to have expected this to happen within a week  but the actual 
outcome wasnt sent until 25 October 2021.
Because Admirals manager expected this to be resolved promptly, as I understand things 
they didnt make the appropriate entries on the system to suppress any payment requests  
which led to Admiral asking Mr P to pay for the policy on 9 and 21 October 2021 when they 
shouldnt have. I have also noted further attempts were then made on 26, 27 November, and 
15, 16 December 2021.
Overall then Ill be upholding this part of Mr Ps complaint, as Admiral attempted to take 
payments when they said they wouldnt  and again will factor in the compensation theyve 
paid at the end to see if this is fair.
That Admiral cancelled his policy in November 2021 without telling him despite him having 
given them his correct contact details, and then after reinstating it cancelled it again in 
January 2022  and Admiral have refused to indemnify him during the time his policy was 
cancelled
As outlined above, Mr P was told in a phone call on 18 September 2021 he didnt have to 
make any payments until the outcome of his complaint was sent.
That outcome was sent on 25 October 2021. But, in the meantime, because of the error 
regarding the manager not noting on the system about the extension on the payment  
Admiral sent Mr P payment demands on 13 and 23 October.
These demands said unless Mr P paid for the policy, itd be cancelled without further notice. 
But, clearly, these notices contradict what Mr P had been told about not having to make any 
payments until the complaint had been resolved.
Given the complete opposite instructions Mr P was being given, Id have expected Admiral to 
make it extremely clear to Mr P after the outcome was issued on 25 October 2021 that he 
needed to make payment. Id also have expected Admiral to make it clear what the 
consequences of not making the payment would be  especially given driving without 
insurance is illegal. I understand conversations took place after 25 October (when the 
outcome was issued) and before 2 November (when the policy was cancelled) but Ive not 
been provided with any call recordings so I cant hear what was said. 
Having put my initial thoughts to Admiral in order to ask them if they now thought theyd 
treated Mr P fairly  theyve said no. In response to this theyve offered £250 compensation.
 
After the policy was cancelled on 2 November 2021 Mr P was unfortunately in a further 
accident in which he disputes he was at fault.
This accident seems to have occurred on 6 November, and he called Admiral on 
10 November 2021. Admiral havent provided the call where Mr P found out his policy had 
been cancelled  only the one preceding that as thats all they said they had on file.But I understand Mr P says he didnt know his policy had been cancelled. Admiral dispute 
this, saying they wrote and emailed his correct email address to tell him about this.
Overall though, I dont think I need to address this in detail  thats because I dont think the 
cancellation of the policy was done fairly. So, whether Admiral did or didnt write to Mr Ps 
correct email address becomes moot.
Its during the conversation on 10 November 2021 I understand Mr Ps policy was reinstated. 
I understand this was done at the time as a gesture of goodwill. Again, Ive asked Admiral 
whether, in retrospect, this was the right action to take  and theyve said no they think they 
should have investigated the matter further before reinstating his policy.
Overall then Ill be upholding this part of Mr Ps complaint, I dont think they carried out a fair 
cancellation of the policy, nor do I think they reinstated it appropriately.
Hes received very poor customer service  with contacts regularly not being returned, 
including one specific email from a case handler
Mr P has expressed extreme frustration at constantly having to call for updates as emails 
werent being replied to, being promised call backs, and not receiving them. 
Dealing with this issue first, I can see Admiral agreed with this, and awarded Mr P some 
compensation. Having considered all of the available evidence, I agree and uphold this 
point.
Mr P is also unhappy about an email he received from one of Admirals case handlers. This 
said they couldnt call Mr P back because theyd been having phone issues, and also email 
issues which led to a delay in them receiving his email. They said if Mr P remains unhappy 
with the outcome of previous complaints, then he can contact our service.
Mr P said he felt the case handler was extremely smug in this email and didnt think it was 
good customer service.
Having read the email, I disagree. Although I find it disappointing the case handler had 
issues which meant emails and phone calls couldnt get through, and seemingly took no 
action to let external people know this such as an out of office, I cant reasonably say there is 
anything in the response itself that comes across as inappropriate. So, I dont uphold this 
element of Mr Ps complaint. 
Its unclear how much is owing, how this amount has accrued, and that Admiral asked debt 
collectors to contact him
One of the concerns Mr P has raised is that when Admiral were trying to take money from 
him, it was for different amounts and he had no idea why.Admiral have provided this list and explanation of what amounts were attempted, when, and 
what they were for:
2 September 2021 for £55.17  Mr P changed his car, so this incurred an additional 
premium (and this was before the primary issues began on 18 September 2021)
9 October 2021 for £3,216.02  this was the renewal premium of £3,160.85 plus the 
outstanding £55.17 that hadnt been paid at this point
21 October 2021 for £3216.02  same as above
Between this time and the next payment attempt, the policy had been cancelled on 
2 November 2021, and then reinstated on 10 November 2021 with the expected renewal 
date of 19 September 2022.
26 November 2021 for £2,566.56  recalculated premium for 10 November 2021 to 
19 September 2022
27 November 2021 for £496.21  premium for 19 September 2021 to 
2 November 2021
15 December 2021 for £2566.56  as above
16 December 2021 for £496.21  as above
Then following the cancellation of the policy on 18 January 2022  the amount of £2,566.56 
was recalculated and became £569.71 (while waiving the cancellation fee of £60). 
So, Admiral calculated Mr P owed:
£496.21 to cover 19 September 2021 until 2 November 2021, and
£569.71 to cover 10 November 2021 to 18 January 2022
£1,065.92 in total
Admiral though have told us:
Theyve written off the £496.21  this was legitimately owed by Mr P but theyve said 
he doesnt need to pay it now
The £569.71 is what they asked the debt collectors to collect  but an amount of 
£17.74 was generated as a refund meaning Mr P now owes £551.97.
Its only after our service has really pressed Admiral on this point, that this information has 
been provided. I can see its been a real concern of Mr Ps about whether he owes anything, 
and if so, what that amount is. 
Given that, Im not sure it was appropriate for Admiral to pass this on to a debt collector to 
get in touch with Mr P about it. Im aware that caused Mr P distress  and he says the 
reason the account was returned to Admiral was because their contact severely affected his 
mental health. Im aware Admiral have said the reason the account was returned was 
because Mr P refused to pay the debt. 
Overall then, Im going to be upholding this element as well, while factoring in that Admiral 
have written off £496.21 that Mr P legitimately owed.Putting things right
I think to put right matters in this case is somewhat complicated due to the length of time 
matters have gone on for, and the sheer number of issues that have come up during that 
time.
So, I will be taking a holistic view of things. Ive seen Mr P say thats not how things should 
work, but ultimately I think what Ill go on to outline will be a fair way to resolve the matter.
The first issue for me to consider is whether Admiral need to do anything further with the two 
claims Mr P wants to raise. In relation to the claim in June 2021 I dont think so  but I have 
set out what Mr P can do if hed like to.
In relation to the second claim in November 2021, the only reason the claim hasnt been 
considered is because of the policy being cancelled.
But, for the reasons I set out above, I dont think the policy was cancelled fairly. Im not 
satisfied based on all the information provided to me that Mr P fully understood the 
consequences of what was going on  and thats down to Admirals very poor 
communication.
I appreciate Admiral have offered £250 compensation for this issue, but I dont think that 
really rectifies the situation. Given the circumstances Ive outlined above I think the 
cancellation of the policy as of 2 November 2021 should be rescinded. And this means 
Admiral will need to consider the claim. 
I do though want to make it clear to Mr P that Im only telling Admiral to consider the claim  
not pay it. Admiral never assessed the claim because based on the information they 
operated on at the time the policy had been cancelled  so they may not have taken down 
the usual information. Ultimately, if Admiral decide not to pay the claim, then thats 
something Mr P could raise as a new complaint.
I do though also want to make it clear to Admiral that theyll need to fairly assess the claim 
while factoring in whats happened. As Ive found they didnt correctly cancel Mr Ps policy on 
2 November 2021 then had things run their course theyd have gathered all the relevant 
information from Mr P at the time. If because of the delay in them now trying to consider the 
claim there is any potential detriment to the claim because of that delay, Id encourage 
Admiral to consider that in Mr Ps favour  since theyre the ones who made an error in 
cancelling the policy which led to this situation occurring. 
Ive said above I dont think Admiral should have reinstated the policy on 10 November 2021. 
Taking that further, as I dont think the policy should have been cancelled on 2 November, I 
think thats the appropriate date to reinstate the policy.
Admiral have written off the premiums owed of £496.21 for the period immediately before 
this  thats their prerogative and it the circumstances of everything thats happened certainly 
doesnt seem unfair. 
But I think in reinstating the policy from 2 November 2021 until 18 January 2022, its only 
right that premiums can be charged. I dont think itd be fair or appropriate for Admiral to 
consider a claim without having been paid a premium for that.
So, Admiral will need to recalculate the premium from 2 November 2021 to 18 January 2022 
and let Mr P know what that is. But, before Mr P might be required to pay the premium, 
Admiral may want to take off the premium from the compensation amount below.As things stand Admiral say theyve paid Mr P £275 in total. Mr P seems to only refer to 
having received £150.
Either way, Im going to say the total compensation on Mr Ps case should be set at £1,000. 
As a reminder the issues Im upholding are:
NCD problems
Trying to take payments when they shouldnt have
Cancelling his policy unfairly and not meeting his November 2021 claim unfairly
Poor customer service
Not knowing how much is owed and being contacted by debt collectors
As Mr Ps new insurer wouldnt calculate the amount the NCD errors cost him its impossible 
to work out exactly how much hes been overcharged  but, Im satisfied this amount of 
compensation factors in a likely amount Mr P was overcharged by new insurer. Likewise, Im 
satisfied this amount covers any bank fees Mr P may have incurred when Admiral tried to 
take payments they shouldnt have  while also giving him some additional compensation for 
the issues that have happened.
Admiral have made a large number of inexplicable errors and seem to have just 
compounded them one after the other on a consistent regular basis. Ive set out the issues 
above and its just not clear to me how Admiral could get it so wrong on so many occasions 
 especially given Id expect Admiral to take more care with policyholders where they have 
already made mistakes  and policyholders who have disclosed health conditions which 
mean these issues are far more impactful.
So, overall, I think £1,000 in total is fair. But, Admiral may want to:
Remove the cost of the recalculated premium from this payment before making it to 
Mr P
Remove any previous payments to Mr P before making it to Mr P
If Admiral do this, Id say its reasonable. But theyll need to send a letter to Mr P explaining 
exactly what his new premium was (which will be £551.97 plus the additional time on cover 
between 2 and 10 November 2021), when they made the previous payments of £125 and 
£150 and how much theyre paying him now, so he knows.
Finally, I think Admiral need to remove the cancellation notices from Mr Ps records on any 
internal and external databases  and give him a letter saying the cancellations were their 
error so he can show it to future insurers. As I dont think the policy should have been 
cancelled on 2 November 2021 thats a given. And Im saying at this stage Mr P owes the 
premiums, but no one told him how exactly itd been calculated. So, although Mr P owed the 
premiums when the policy was cancelled in January 2022, I think the overall events Ive laid 
out here show that cancellation to also have been unfair  especially since Im saying he has 
to pay those premiums now. Ive also factored in these potential extra costs into the amount 
of compensation Im saying Admiral need to pay.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P expressed some concerns regarding the outcome Id proposed. Ive summarised his 
comments as follows:
What if the other party involved in the November 2021 crash denies the allegations? 
Had his insurance not been cancelled, hed have had a better chance of this being 
dealt with. 
Why should Admiral be able to deduct costs from the compensation after they have 
continuously failed to do their jobs?
He doesnt agree with the payment of £551.97 as he only continued to stay with 
Admiral as they were supposed to be dealing with a serious complaint due to his 
negligence. He also says this cost around £180 per month for three months  was 
this dragged out so they could run up a large payment at the end?
Overall if the costs of £551.97 and £275 are deducted from the £1,000, this only 
leaves £173.03 which wouldnt even cover a counselling session for the stress 
Admiral have caused. 
These costs dont cover the damages / excess he may have to pay from the 
November 2021 claim as he feels Admiral trying to win a claim on his behalf from two 
years ago is 99% unlikely. 
He also said the monies he had to pay to his new insurance company is very much 
over £500 due to Admirals error on the NCD.
And he asks if anyone from Admiral will be writing him a letter of apology for their 
negligence.
Mr P said to settle the matter hed like:
£750 compensation from admiral (no deductions).
Any outstanding debt with admiral to be written off.
Damages on my car to be covered by Admiral or expenses transferred along with the 
compensation (damages quoted at £350+Vat).
A letter explaining Admiral were at fault for my cancellation so I can show any future 
insurers.
A letter of apology from Admiral for their mistakes. 
Admirals databases to be updated accordingly.
Admiral didnt reply by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address each of Mr Ps comments in turn.
For the November 2021 crash I dont know what will happen  so its possible the other party 
will deny the allegations. As Ive said, Id ask Admiral to factor this in when deciding the 
claim outcome  and, if Mr P remains unhappy, then he can raise a new complaint about 
that. I cant influence the outcome of this claim; it wouldnt be right for me to say it needs to 
be paid, when its possible the terms of Mr Ps policy would mean, for whatever reason, 
Admiral wouldnt be required to meet the claim. Admiral have to assess it first.Admiral have continuously failed to do their jobs in handling things appropriately for Mr P, 
and I do understand he isnt happy to have to pay for the insurance of £551.97. But 
ultimately, I think this is fair. Mr P is required to pay for his insurance if he wants his claim 
met  and I cant ignore the £496.21 Admiral wrote off which was legitimately owed.
Regarding the excess for the claim in November 2021, that is a payment Mr P has to make if 
he wants his claim considered. As Ive explained before, a claim cant be considered unless 
the terms of the policy are met  one of which is paying the excess up front.
In respect of the money hes had to pay his new insurer, Mr P hasnt provided evidence of 
this. Hes said its over £500. But I know pricing in the insurance industry fluctuates due to a 
large number of different factors  including what types of car someone drives, where they 
live, how many claims theyve had and many other issues as well as a NCD. Without 
evidence, which Mr P has told us he cant get, I cant require Admiral to pay as much as hes 
suggested. Especially when I think its unlikely any issue with the NCD is going to have 
contributed this much to the issue. If Mr P decided he wanted to complain about his new 
insurer, and how much theyve charged him, then he could do so. But, given Ive not been 
provided with any evidence, Ive no grounds on which to ask Admiral to pay more on this 
point.
I understand why Mr P would want a letter of apology. Ive not though required that. Thats 
because Admiral is required to do what I say if Mr P accepts the decision within the deadline. 
So, if I require Admiral to say sorry, then its a forced apology which, to me, simply doesnt 
mean that much. If Admiral wish to say sorry when contacting Mr P after this decision, then I 
think thatd be a nice touch, but it wont be something Im requiring them to do.
Overall, although I understand Mr P fundamentally disagrees with my outcome, I remain 
satisfied with the way Ive suggested to put things right. I do also think its important to 
emphasise Admiral wrote off £496.21, and Im recommending a total of £1,000 
compensation. So, Mr P is receiving a compensation package of around £1,500 for Admirals 
errors.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Reinstate Mr Ps policy from 2 November 2021, until it was cancelled on 
18 January 2022  the premiums for which are owed by Mr P
Consider Mr Ps November 2021 claim
Pay him a total of £1,000 compensation  but they can deduct the premiums owing 
and any compensation previously paid from this figure
Send Mr P a letter confirming what deductions have been made from the £1,000 
compensation figure
Update any internal and external databases to ensure any record of cancellations 
have been removed
Send Mr P a letter of indemnity to explain the two cancellations of his policy was due 
to Admirals error not his, so he can show it to future insurers
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman