Page 1 of 6The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they lost when they fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs B fell victim to a scam. 
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mrs B was contacted by a fraudster, pretending to 
be from HSBC, who told Mrs B that their money was at risk and tricked her into sending  
payments, totalling £31,499 to what she thought was a safe account, but was actually an 
account controlled by the fraudster. The fraud also entailed Mrs B being tricked into taking 
out a loan for £22,000 (which was used to fund part of the payments).
On 15 June 2019, Mrs B received a phone call from somebody claiming to be from HSBCs 
fraud department. Mrs B asked the caller how she could be sure they were from HSBC. The 
caller told her that he would call her back on a number that she would recognise as being an 
HSBC telephone number. Mrs B has said that when the call came through it appeared as 
HSBCs genuine customer contact centre number. The caller also provided Mrs B with a 
name, reference number and a direct telephone number and was aware that Mrs B had 
previously reported a fraud (about her credit card). Because of this, Mrs B thought the caller 
was genuine, but unknown to her at the time the call was from a fraudster.
Mrs B has said the fraudster told her that someone was trying to take out £4,000 from her 
account from a location in Scotland. The fraudster said the payment had been stopped, but 
that somebody was also attempting to take a loan out in her name. Mrs B was told that in 
order to keep her money safe it was necessary for her account to be stopped and for 
everything to be transferred into a temporary account, following which Mrs B was told she 
would receive an email inviting her to attend a branch  where she would be provided with a 
new card /PIN. Mrs B was also told by the fraudster that a fraudulent loan had been opened 
and in order to close it she had to go through another loan application online  which she 
did, resulting in a credit of £22,000 being made into her account.
Believing the call to be genuine Mrs B went ahead and made the payments the fraudster 
instructed her to make, via her online banking and set up the loan. The first three payments 
went to the same account, with the fraudster providing Mrs B with different bank details for 
the fourth payment.
The key transactions from the scam are detailed below:
Date Transaction Amount
16 June 2019 Faster payment out £7,499
16 June 2019 Faster payment out £10,001
DRN-2636975Page 2 of 616 June 2019 Faster payment out £3,999
16 June 2019 Loan credit £22,000
16 June 2019 Faster payment out £10,000
The second payment Mrs B made was flagged by HSBCs fraud detection systems and 
HSBC spoke to Mrs B before releasing the payment. Later in the day Mrs B became 
suspicious, as shes said things were taking too long. So she contacted HSBC again, where 
the scam came to light.
HSBC has said it contacted the receiving bank and was told that some funds remained, but 
that it hadnt received any returned funds from the receiving bank.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC has said it returned the fourth payment (of £10,000) to Mrs B as the payment was 
made after the loan had been taken (the remaining balance of the loan was not paid to the 
fraudster and has since been settled against the loan). Alongside this, it said it should have 
done more to protect and advise Mrs B before she made the payment. But it added that Mrs 
B could also have done more. So it thought it should share the responsibility and offered to 
refund £10,749.50, being half of the money from the first three payments Mrs B had made.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. She thought Mrs B had a reasonable basis for believing she was genuinely speaking 
to her bank. In summary, she said this because; the call Mrs B received was from a spoofed 
HSBC number, Mrs B challenged the caller at the start of the call, the fraudster knew details 
of her account and overall our investigator considered this to be a sophisticated scam and 
Mrs B was led to believe she needed to act fast to stop fraudsters from accessing her 
money.
Alongside this, our investigator also thought HSBC missed an opportunity to identify the 
scam, when it spoke to Mrs B before she made the second payment. She feels that had 
HSBC asked further questions it would have recognised Mrs B was potentially at risk and the 
spell of the scam would have been broken. 
Overall, our investigator thought HSBC should refund Mr and Mrs B the remaining money 
they had lost, along with interest and £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
HSBC responded, disagreeing with our investigators view. In summary it said;
- it disagreed strongly that Mrs B had a reasonable basis for belief that the person with 
whom she was transacting was legitimate and applying the CRM code Mrs B did not 
meet her requisite level of care
- its offer of 50% was in compliance with the CRM code and was fair and reasonable
- as a result of Mrs B not confirming to HSBC that the account details had been 
provided to her over the telephone, in an unsolicited call, it was prevented from 
pursuing effective questioning around safe account scams, which would likely have 
been effective in preventing Mrs B from proceeding
- Mrs B did nothing to independently corroborate the information she was given by the 
fraudster
- had Mrs B been more open with it, it would have been able to assist her further. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.Page 3 of 6 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded Mr and Mrs B the 
full amount they lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr and 
Mrs B lost.
- The money was taken from Mr and Mrs Bs current account, but was funded through 
transfers in the current account from interest bearing accounts. So HSBC should pay 
interest at account rate (this should be from the date HSBC should have refunded 
under the CRM Code up until the date of settlement for the first payment, but from 
the date of transaction, until date of settlement for subsequent payments).
HSBC, although admitting it could have done more to protect Mrs B before she made the 
payment, argue that one exception from the CRM Code applies. It argues; 
- Mrs B made the payments without a reasonable basis of belief that the person they 
were paying was legitimate.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations that Mrs B did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making payments to a genuine source, but they do not persuade 
me to reach a different view. In particular, Im not persuaded Mrs B failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code. In reaching my decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the 
fraudster and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on Mrs Bs 
thoughts and actions.
In this case Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mrs B lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
- It appears the fraudster used social engineering techniques in order to gain her trust 
 providing Mrs B with personal information about her accounts that she believed 
only her bank would know, with the fraudster aware that Mrs B had previously 
reported fraud on one of her accounts. The caller also provided Mrs B with what she 
thought was a genuine staff reference number and a direct contact mobile telephone 
number and spoke confidently about how the bank operated. I think its 
understandable how this would have reasonably persuaded Mrs B that she was 
genuinely talking to her bank. Page 4 of 6- HSBCs position is that Mrs B followed the instructions of a cold-caller without 
carrying out any independent investigation. But based on Mrs Bs recollections, its 
more likely than not that the fraudster was spoofing HSBCs genuine number (as is 
often the case in these types of scams). And importantly, Mrs B did challenge the 
caller initially and was told she would be called back from an HSBC number, which 
the caller did and Mrs B recognised the number as it came up as HSBC on her 
phone. This persuaded Mrs B that the caller was genuine, which I think is reasonable 
considering I dont think Mrs B would have been aware of how safe account scams 
typically work, and how a fraudster can spoof a genuine number. 
- Alongside this Im mindful that banks can and do call customers to discuss 
transactions that appear as potentially fraudulent activity (indeed HSBC told Mrs B 
that it had attempted to call her regarding the second payment) and those genuine 
calls can be unexpected and out of the blue.
- I dont think HSBC has given enough consideration to the fact the fraudster had 
created an environment where Mrs B thought she had to act quickly to protect her 
money  designed to make Mrs B comply with their instructions and disrupt her 
thought process. Fraudsters know that fear can often have a negative effect on a 
persons thought process. It can certainly make people take steps that, in the cold 
light of day, they might not otherwise take. Mrs B has told us she felt panicked and I 
consider Mrs Bs eagerness for the payments to go through are supported by her 
phoning HSBC on two further occasions to check that they had been processed.
- HSBC says Mrs B didnt give them truthful information when she called regarding the 
second payment. In that she confirmed it was a genuine payment and when asked if 
shed received a call from a third party, she said she hadnt. Im persuaded that it is 
entirely reasonable that Mrs B may not have considered her bank, who she thought 
she was genuinely talking to, to have been a third party in these circumstances.  
And I cant fairly or reasonably agree with HSBCs overall assertions that Mrs B was 
not truthful with them  there simply is no persuasive evidence that draws me to this 
conclusion. Rather I consider Mrs B genuinely thought she was speaking with her 
bank, was under the impression she needed to act fast to protect her money and 
believed she was making a payment to an account where her money would be safe. 
- In following what she believed to be the instructions of her bank to protect her 
money, I find Mrs B did have a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was 
being made in connection with a legitimate service. In all the circumstances, I dont 
find it unreasonable for Mrs B to have believed her bank was asking her to do this.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Mrs B sent the payments she did, she did so without a reasonable basis for belief. 
Could HSBC have done anything else to prevent the scam?
I am mindful that when Mrs B made these payments HSBC should fairly and reasonably also 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps before 
processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.Page 5 of 6Im satisfied HSBC recognised this. I say this because it intervened when Mrs B attempted to 
make the second payment to the fraudster and didnt process the payment, until it had 
spoken to Mrs B. So, Ive thought about whether HSBC did enough during the conversation 
it had with Mrs B over the phone before it processed the second payment she made.
Ive listened to the call that HSBC had with Mrs B and, from what Ive heard, this 
conversation had little impact on Mrs B in the moment. In summary the agent asks Mrs B 
whether the payment was genuine; how she was given the beneficiary details (whether by 
email or personally) and whether Mrs B received any phone calls from a third party before 
this payment was due.
Mrs B responded that the payment was genuine, she had received the details personally and 
that she hadnt received any calls from a third party. Following which, HSBC tells Mrs B that 
she should check any payment details received by email; and for phone calls, that some 
customers get calls from people pretending to be from utility companies they subscribe to 
and tell them their account is being blocked and that some are told to take a loan, so 
customers unknowingly give their details. It tells Mrs B to be careful and to call the company 
to make sure everything is ok.
But considering the circumstances of this case and what was happening I dont think 
HSBCs questioning went far enough. Importantly, HSBC didnt ask Mrs B what the payment 
was for or challenge the purpose of the payment. HSBC has said that our investigator was 
not realistic about what it can ask its customers about their private affairs. But I dont 
consider it unrealistic to have expected HSBC to have asked Mrs B what the payment was 
for, especially given that the reason for the call was that the payment had been detected by 
HSBCs fraud detection systems as one that it needed to intervene on.
Mrs B wasnt being coached by the fraudster in what to say, which can often be the case 
with these types of fraud, so I think she would have spoken freely in response to any 
questions HSBC had asked her. With this in mind, if HSBC had asked her what the payment 
was for, Im persuaded its more likely than not she would have gone on to explain where the 
instruction had come from, the scam would have come to light and Mrs B wouldnt have 
gone on to make this and the subsequent payments.
Ive considered what HSBC has said, in that Mrs B ought to have told it she had received a 
call from who she thought was her bank, when it asked her if shed been contacted by a 
third party. But in the telephone conversation HSBC had with Mrs B, in the context of third 
parties HSBC goes on to say that customers receive calls from utility companies. It doesnt 
mention fraudsters impersonating banks and so I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs B 
not to have considered her bank, as a third party.
My findings that HSBC ought to have prevented Mrs B from making the payments have a 
limited impact on the outcome of this complaint, given I have decided Mrs B shouldve been 
reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to the interest 
payable only.
Overall, I am persuaded that while HSBC did make an intervention in an attempt to protect 
her, Mrs B did meet her requisite level of care and I dont believe HSBC has established it 
was able to choose not to refund her under the Code. In the circumstances I think it ought to 
have fully refunded Mr and Mrs B under the provisions of the CRM Code and so it should 
fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now.
Although most of Mr and Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience probably resulted from the 
criminal acts of the fraudsters, I think HSBC could have done more to protect them from the 
impact of this. The scam has had an impact on Mr and Mrs B, causing them stress, worry Page 6 of 6and to lose sleep, some of which could have been avoided. I therefore consider £100 
compensation to be fair and appropriate in the circumstances of this case. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC;
- refund the remaining money Mr and Mrs B lost (less any money already
returned/recovered)
- for the first payment of £7,499, pay interest on the balance yet to be refunded at the
applicable savings account rate, from the date HSBC declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim
under the CRM code, to the date of settlement.
- for the subsequent payments of £10,001 and £3,999, pay interest on the balance yet
to be refunded at the applicable savings account rate, from the date of the
transaction to the date of settlement.
- Pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
against HSBC UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman