DRN-3743896
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by GM2 Ltd (GM2) to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M approached GM2 in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr M 
said that he wanted to plan for his early retirement, and he was concerned about the 
situation with his employer and the BSPS.  
GM2 completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that Mr M:
Was aged 33 years old, married and had two young children
He and Mrs M owned their own home, it was not subject to a mortgage. 
They had no savings or investments.
Was employed at Tata Steel with an annual income of around £40,000. 
In respect of his pension arrangements, he had deferred benefits in the BSPS. Hed been a 
member for just over 11 years. The annual pension at the date of leaving was £5,319.08 and 
the transfer value was £124,591.72. 
He was also a member of the new employers defined contribution (DC) scheme. Mr M and 
his employer contributed a combined total of 16% of his salary into this. Mr M also had a DC 
scheme with a current value of around £2,000. 
GM2 asked Mr M about his attitude to risk, and he indicated on the fact find (by marking this 
option) that it was speculative. This was described as being I am willing to accept a high 
level of risk in return for the potential for increased long term capital growth. I understand 
that I may have a high level of investment in stockmarket linked funds, and the value of my 
investment may fall and rise significantly. Mr M also said that he had very limited financial 
knowledge and little or no experience of investments.
On 22 November 2017, GM2 advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in a range of funds that it said met his attitude to risk. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr M wanted to: 
Provide for his family in the event of his death.
Plan for his retirement, he wanted to retire at age 60.
Produce a good return on his savings.
Provide for school and / or further education fees.
Mr M complained in 2021 to GM2 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he was 
unaware that he could have left his pension arrangements as they were and transferred later 
on, closer to his intended retirement age of 60. 
GM2 didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it thought the advice it had given him was 
suitable for his circumstances. This was because:
Mr M had a high attitude to risk. He had other means to fund his early retirement (his 
wife had a significant DB scheme) so he could afford to risk his BSPS benefits.
The required growth rates needed to match the BSPS scheme were reasonable and 
the SIPP has performed well so far. Mr M is unlikely to suffer a reduction in future 
income due to the transfer. 
His other circumstances also supported that he could take a risk with his BSPS 
pension. 
Mr M was concerned about the situation with the BSPS and he wanted to remove 
these concerns
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that GM2 pay compensation. He said it wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to 
transfer as he would likely receive lower pension benefits. And he wasnt persuaded that 
Mr M had a speculative attitude to risk. Overall, our Investigator thought that Mr Ms 
retirement objectives werent well defined and werent a firm basis for a DB transfer. He 
didnt think the advice was suitable for Mr M.
GM2 disagreed, saying: 
The FCA was neutral towards DB transfers. 
Full information was given about his options, including the PPF. 
The advice was correct based on what Mr M told it at the time, it was not guaranteed 
that he would be able to transfer at a later date. 
It wasnt right to simply rely on critical yields, GM2 provided a range of calculations 
including a cashflow analysis. 
Mr M classified himself as a speculative investor and it was reasonable for GM2 to 
rely on this. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of GM2's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, GM2 should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. I dont think its right to say that the FCA is neutral about DB transfers, COBS 
19.1.6G is clear that they should be considered unsuitable as a starting point. 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in Mr Ms best 
interests.
Financial viability 
GM2 produced two transfer value analysis reports (TVAS), it was required to produce a 
TVAS by the regulator. These showed how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow 
by each year to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield), amongst 
other things. 
One TVAS was based on his existing scheme benefits, the BSPS (and the PPF). Mr M didnt 
have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move 
with the scheme to the PPF. The second TVAS looked at the situation if he moved into the 
BSPS2. Ive concentrated on the BSPS2 calculations here as the BSPS ones arent 
relevant. The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 33 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 60 ideally. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 60 from the BSPS2 was 4.92% if he took a full 
pension. The same calculation for his age 65 was 4.58%. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 was quoted as 
4.73% per year if Mr M took a full pension and 4.55% per year if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. The same amounts at Mr Ms age 65 were 4.25% and 4.07% respectively. 
The report also showed the income Mr M was projected to receive at age 65 from the 
BSPS2 was £9,734 per annum. He was estimated to receive £7,494 at his age 60. 
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 31 years to retirement, which was Mr Ms age 65. And 4.6% for 26 
years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
speculative attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Mr Ms attitude to risk was assessed as being relatively high. I can accept he indicated that 
he was prepared to take some investment risk. But he also doesnt seem to have had any 
risk bearing investments, so its hard to agree that he would be familiar with the volatility that 
investing at higher risks usually brings. And the attitude to risk was based on investment risk 
rather than the inherent risks with a DB transfer. Even if Mr M was prepared to ordinarily 
consider higher risk investments it doesnt necessarily follow that he understood, and agreed 
with, risking his guaranteed retirement benefits. 
So, Im not convinced this assessment was robust and that Mr Ms tolerance to risk for the 
DB transfer was as high as speculative. That said he did have a reasonably long time until 
his retirement and he did seem to have other assets. So, he could take some risk, but Im 
not persuaded that speculative is right. And I dont think it was right to indicate that he 
could, or should, risk his DB scheme benefits in the way that happened here.  
There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield from the BSPS2 was 4.58%, I think Mr M was unlikely to 
improve on the benefits the DB scheme would have provided at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with his likely attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme 
moved to the PPF.
GM2 has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr M wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but GM2s models show that, 
assuming a medium rate of return, and Mr M taking the same benefits from the BSPS 
scheme, that his fund would run out at his age 97. So, if there was a period of poor returns 
or Mr M lived a long life, his fund was at risk of running out before he died.And GM2 also provided an estimate of the fund values he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DC scheme. At age 65 this was £225,823.55 and at age 60 
it was £197,551.34. These are relatively high, and they give a revealing insight into the value 
of the benefits Mr M gave up when he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
GM2 says that the critical yields are of limited relevance as Mr M didnt want to use his funds 
on the same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. Essentially GM2 is saying 
Mr M didnt want an annuity, it said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator 
required GM2 to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the 
critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as Mr Ms 
retirement plans werent fully formed as he wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 26 
years. His only other pensions were money purchase arrangements, so that was already 
subject to investment risk. So, I think its entirely possible that Mr M would want at least 
some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the 
DB scheme). 
Also, as GM2 will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as GM2 has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems that one of the main reasons that Mr M wanted to transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered him. Mr M wanted to retire at age 60. But having considered the evidence, I 
dont think Mr M needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have 
flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr M could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr M had to take those benefits 
at the same time. So, there was increased flexibility with the personal pension. 
The point of sale documentation said that Mr M wanted £2,000 per month before tax, this is 
£24,000 per year. Although its fair to say this was very much an estimate of what he might 
need in the future. Given how far away his actual retirement was. 
At age 60, if Mr M opted into the BSPS2, he could take a pension of around £7,500 per year. 
There wasnt any known need for the tax-free cash (Mr Ms mortgage was repaid). And at 
age 68 he would get his state pension of around £8,300. So clearly Mr Ms BSPS2 benefits 
and the state pension alone may not have met his income needs at age 60, or maybe even 
at his age 65. 
But Mr and Mrs M did have significant other provision. The fact-find says that Mr M and his 
employer would be contributing a total of 16% of his salary into the new DC scheme. Mr M 
had around 26 years until he wanted to retire. GM2 has estimated that if there was no 
growth in his salary (which is unlikely) then contributions to the scheme over that period 
would total over £160,000. It added growth at the rate of 4.7% then it said the total DC 
scheme benefits at age 60 would be approximately £320,000.Added to this Mrs M was approximately three years older than Mr M. She also had 
significant DB scheme benefits. I understand she would be able to access her state and DB 
scheme benefits earlier than Mr M. 
So even though Mr Ms retirement needs werent fully defined I think its likely that any 
shortfall couldve been met by Mr Ms wifes pensions and/or by Mr M accessing income or 
tax-free cash from his DC scheme. Mr M would have likely had a significant pension to draw 
on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I 
dont think Mr M would have had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement if he opted into the 
BSPS2.
In fact the advice was given on the basis that Mr M didnt really need this DB scheme as his 
needs would be met with the other provision he had. This is acknowledged in the suitability 
letter in which it says that Mr M was likely to receive the bulk of the income he needed 
elsewhere. But I cant agree that Mr Ms main private pension that he had accrued so far 
should have been considered in this way. 
Even if Mr and Mrs M could have got by without the income from Mr Ms DB scheme once 
their state pensions became payable this isnt a good reason to transfer in itself. This income 
could have been an important foundation for their retirement, providing a guaranteed amount 
meaning that any income received above this couldve allowed them to enjoy their retirement 
fully.
GM2 may think that once Mr and Mrs Ms state and other provisions became payable they 
would have too much income. But they couldve, for example reinvested any surplus income 
for the benefit of their children in a tax-efficient manner such as within a trust.
I dont think its been demonstrated that it was in Mr Ms best interests to transfer to a 
personal pension. As Ive set out above, Mr M was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same 
value at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, I still think Mr M had 
a better chance of achieving his target retirement income opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits 
under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a 
personal pension. 
Furthermore, Mr M was only 33 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr M had at least 26 years before he was thinking 
about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr M to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would be. If Mr M later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme they could 
have done so closer to retirement under the BSPS2.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF at age 60 or 65. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to 
transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think GM2 explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his wife and children if Mr M predeceased them. I dont 
think GM2 made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not 
have been a large sum left if Mr M lived a long life. In any event, GM2 should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think GM2 shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme, and he 
would have been worried his pension would end up in the PPF. He indicated he preferred to 
have control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was GM2s obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, this shouldve alleviated Mr Ms concerns about the scheme moving to the 
PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that GM2 shouldve 
reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr M through the PPF wouldve still provided a reasonable portion 
of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed 
this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. And if Mr M took 
tax-free cash, it wouldve actually produced a better outcome for him. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to GM2 recommending Mr M transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
I think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
It seems to me that Mr Ms stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ms employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not the same. And in any event, Mr M was not intending to leave his employment and 
his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. Mr M says that he has now moved his pension 
back to the Tata DC scheme. So had GM2  explained that Mr Ms belief regarding the 
control Mr Ms employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would have been 
reassured by this.
Would Mr M have joined the BSPS2 going forward
My decision is that Mr M should have been advised to stay in the DB scheme. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 wasnt in place when the advice was given, but I think it was clear to all 
parties that it was likely to be going ahead.  As Ive outlined above, Mr M would need to 
choose whether to move to the PPF, or go to the BSPS2, in the near future. 
I don't think that it would've been in Mr Ms interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. Even though Mr M did want to retire early, Im 
not persuaded that he would have needed to take the benefits from his DB scheme if he did 
this. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, Mr M was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr 
M chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think if GM2 had advised Mr M to stay in the BSPS scheme he would have opted in the 
future to join the BSPS2. And so, this is what compensation should be based on. 
Suitability of investments
GM2 recommended that Mr M invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in 
these funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But GM2 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme due to the changes within the scheme, and the potential for more flexibility or higher 
death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.I think GM2 shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2. And Mr M now says that this 
what he would have done. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against GM2's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against GM2s advice. I say this because Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ms retirement 
provision. So, if GM2 had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If GM2 had explained that 
Mr M could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think GM2 should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that GM2 also pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
GM2 must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
GM2 should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If GM2 
does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision department of 
the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of the calculation. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, GM2 should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts GM2s offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, GM2 may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
GM2 should pay Mr M £300 for the distress the poor advice caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require GM2 Ltd to pay Mr M 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
GM2 Ltd pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on GM2 Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman