DRN-4108156
The complaint
A complain that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) failed to refund transactions they didnt 
recognise.
What happened
A are a limited company and are represented here by Mr B who was involved in the incident. 
So, Ill mainly refer to him throughout the complaint.
Mr B explained that he was out with friends and had been drinking. Early the next morning, 
Mr B and his friends left the venue and were in conversation with another group of males.
Mr B said he was trying to gain access to his phone at the time by entering his personal 
identification number (PIN) into the device. He later said that he believed one of the group of 
males who was very tall was stood behind him and observed the PIN being put into the 
phone.
At some point outside the venue, Mr Bs phone was taken by one of the group, although Mr 
B didnt realise it was missing until later. Mr B looked for the phone but couldnt find it.
When Mr B got home later that morning, he tried to use his computer to locate his phone. He 
then saw messages that his phone details (password) had been changed and could no 
longer be tracked. Mr B believed that whoever took his phone was able to change the 
settings and disable the ability of the phone to be found.
He got in touch with the phone provider and told them it had been stolen. Mr B also noticed 
an email from a crypto currency merchant he had an account with that said hed moved 
money into the account earlier that morning.
Mr B was then made aware of other transactions using his phone and called Starling to tell 
them about the theft. In total, £8,250 was taken from As account and most of those funds 
were paid to various other businesses that Mr B had accounts with. Further evidence 
showed that those other accounts were then accessed, and the funds sent to different 
accounts, including crypto payments to wallets not controlled by Mr B.
Mr B later received a refund from one of the merchants reducing his overall losses to £7,250. 
Starling were asked to refund the remaining money because Mr B confirmed he hadnt 
authorised the payments.
Mr B also notified the police about the incident, who mounted an investigation into the loss of 
the phone and As funds. 
Starling looked into what had happened and didnt think they were responsible for refunding 
A. They told Mr B to approach the merchants who had received his funds and seek refunds 
from them because the loss occurred at that point.
A were unhappy with the length of time Starling took to look into his loss and complained. 
Starling again examined the circumstances but didnt change their position. A then brought 
their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was 
looked into by one of our investigators.
Information was sought from both parties and Mr B provided details of the incident and a 
witness statement hed produced for the criminal investigation. He repeated what had 
happened but couldnt explain how the thieves had managed to access his Starling account 
to move his funds.
Starling provided details of their investigation and maintained that the loss was at the point 
when funds were moved from the other merchants where Mr B held accounts. Starling wrote 
to Mr B and said:
Whilst I appreciate that you did not authorise these transactions, the transactions were 
made to B, M and R accounts that are held in your name and were then transferred away, 
therefore, B, M and R should be investigating how these funds were transferred away as 
they have a responsibility to secure your funds. 
After considering the information, As complaint was upheld because the evidence pointed to 
those payments carried out after Mr B lost his phone were unauthorised.
Starling didnt accept this and continued to argue it wasnt their responsibility to refund 
because the loss occurred later in the chain of transactions.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
As part of my investigations, I asked the police to set out their position regarding the events 
surrounding the loss of Mr Bs phone and subsequent transfer of As funds. They were able 
to confirm that individuals were being sought in connection with the incident and were 
confident Mr B was the victim of a crime. They didnt believe he was responsible for making 
the transactions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Starling can hold A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them. 
Starling can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove A authorised the 
transactions, but Starling cannot say that the use of Apple Pay or online payment details 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Starling can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit As account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows they were authenticated using the payment tools issued to A. Ill now 
need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres 
sufficient evidence to hold A responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Firstly, Id like to address the position that Starling have taken here. They appear to be arguing that as the loss occurred after the funds left As account and were sent to other ones 
Mr B controls, that the responsibility lies with those merchants. 
There is an argument regarding which merchant is liable when assessing scam complaints. 
But, those particular considerations relate to transactions authorised by the complainant as a 
result of a scam. The situation here is very different, thats because Mr Bs argument is that 
his phone was stolen, and payments made from his account werent authorised by him or A.
This complaint revolves around whether theres evidence to show Mr B consented to those 
payments leaving his account, because without that consent, the payments would be 
considered unauthorised, and Starling would be liable to refund the outstanding losses made 
from the account (minus any other refunds there may have been).
Mr Bs version of events has been supported by an ongoing criminal investigation into the 
theft of his phone and payments made from his account after the phone was taken. Whilst it 
would be inappropriate to discuss, in detail, an ongoing criminal investigation, I have seen 
confirmation that Mr B was the victim of a theft and further fraud. 
On the face of it, it seems unlikely he could have made those transactions because he no 
longer had his phone. There remains a question of how the thieves manged to access his 
Starling account as Mr B confirmed he didnt store his password/PIN on his phone. Ive also 
considered whether Mr B had knowledge of the payments before they were made. But the 
evidence from the Police shows that a genuine event happened outside the club Mr B had 
been drinking at and several transactions made from various accounts culminating in the 
transfer back to one of the suspects.
Ive also considered Starlings own assessment of the complaint where theyve recognised 
Mr B (on behalf of A) hadnt authorised the transactions, although theyve then gone on to 
say liability is with other merchants.
So, when Ive considered the entirety of the evidence in this particular case, I can see the 
payments were properly authenticated, but Im not satisfied that Starling have been able to 
demonstrate that Mr B consented to those payments. I think its more likely than not that Mr 
B didnt authorise these payments. Without proper authorisation, the payments must be 
considered unauthorised and refunded. 
Putting things right
Starling should now repay the losses incurred when Mr Bs phone was taken, and his funds 
likely stolen. I understand that some of them have been refunded by one merchant, so 
Starling are required to refund the remaining £7,250 plus interest calculated at 8% simple 
from the day of the loss until its repaid. 
Id like to add that if A receive any other refunds from other merchants, they should notify 
Starling to ensure they only receive those funds back that were lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and theyre 
instructed to settle it as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman