DRN-2046150
The complaint
Mr B complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) have declined to pay the full amount for 
repairs to his car. Mr B alleges the damage was caused by Coveas agents and during the 
theft of the vehicle and he wants Covea to pay for the repairs.     
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen during an aggravated burglary at the home he shares with his partner 
in April 2019. Mr Bs partner was threatened with violence, and so handed she over the keys 
to the car. The car was abandoned about 4 miles away and was recovered the following day 
following Mr B activating the cars tracker on the advice of the police, and at a cost of £400. 
Mr B went to recover the car with the police officer. On initial inspection of the car, Mr B told 
the police officer that the exterior of the car looked undamaged except a small scratch on the 
drivers side rear which Mr B accepted he had caused before the theft. The interior of the car 
had been covered with a milky liquid, which the police officer told Mr B was a chemical used 
by car thieves to remove DNA. Otherwise the interior was undamaged. 
The vehicle was taken to the police compound so they could undertake a forensic 
examination.  A few days later Mr B was able to collect his car from the compound and drive 
it home. As the burglars still had possession of the spare keys, Covea agreed to collect the 
car and order a new set of keys. 
The car was collected by a recovery agent on a trailer on 12 April 2019.  Mr B checked the 
car over with the person collecting the car and signed a form to confirm there was only the 
one scratch on the car. The car was taken to the recovery agents secure compound. It was 
later agreed that the car would go to a local garage for a new set of keys to be obtained. 
Mr B was told by Covea that as it was a simple key replacement there would be no excess to 
pay and his no claims discount would not be affected. 
Once the car was at the garage, Mr B received a call to ask him to attend and inspect the 
damage to the car. 
Mr B tells us that when he attended the garage he was surprised to find that there was 
extensive damage to several panels of the car. He believes that the damage was caused by 
one of Coveas agents whilst the car was in their care, so either during the recovery from his 
house or at the garage. 
Mr B was then told by Covea that as there was damage to the car itself his excess would 
now be payable. Following Mr B making a complaint about the poor advice given, the excess 
was later reduced to 50%. 
Mr B was then offered a settlement of £6500 to repair the damage to his car. Mr B was 
unhappy about this as he considers the bodywork damage to the car was caused while the 
car was in the care of Coveas agents and any repairs should not be held against his policy, 
and he should therefore not have to pay an excess. He believes the repairs are Coveas 
responsibility and so Mr B refused the offer.
Mr B moved the car from the garage to his chosen repairer who estimated the costs of 
repairing the vehicle to be £10000.  
Mr B complains that he was without his car for an extended period due to what happened, 
and that he was not provided with a courtesy car. He also complains that the whole situation 
has caused him unnecessary stress. 
Following Mr Bs complaint, Covea had the car examined by a forensics engineer. The 
engineer prepared a report which found that the scratches and marks on the body of the car 
were unlikely to have been caused either during the time the car was stolen, or by Coveas 
agents. He thought that they were attributable to general wear and tear to the vehicle. He did 
consider that there were scuff marks to three of the wheels which may have been caused in 
the incident. Covea therefore agreed to cover the refurbishment of the wheels at a cost of 
£2443.44 inc VAT. They also agreed to waive the whole of the excess due to the confusion 
caused.  
Mr B further disputed this, maintaining that the damage was caused while the car was in 
Coveas care, and asking that the claim was not recorded on Claims Underwriting Exchange. 
Mr B also further complained that the repairer was unable to remove the pen marks that had 
been made on the car by the garage to outline the scratches. Covea offered a further £100 
for the extra time to polish these marks out. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend that Covea  
need to do anything further.  
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only included a brief summary, but Ive considered the information provided by Mr B and 
Covea. 
I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether Covea have acted fairly and reasonably in their decision 
not to pay for the damage to the bodywork of the car, except for the damage to the wheels. 
To do this, I have to consider whether, its more likely than not that the damage to the car 
was caused either during the theft or while the car was in Coveas care. 
I have carefully considered the statements provided by Mr B, the police officers who 
attended the car when it was found, the report provided by the forensic engineer, and the 
report from the garage. 
When the car was received by the garage they asked Mr B to come and look at the car 
because they had only been instructed to deal with a key replacement, and there were 
marks on the car which they thought may be attributable to the theft. They needed the owner 
to confirm what damage was new and what was existing to know what to quote for. Mr B says that he was shocked to see the level of damage to his car, which he says was not 
present either when he went to recover his vehicle with the police, or when he picked it up 
from the police, but before it was taken by the recovery agent.  Ive not disregarded Mr Bs 
account, but he has not been able to provide us with any evidence of the condition of his car 
before the theft and so I have considered the totality of the evidence including the evidence 
from after the theft, and the opinions of those professionals as to when damage is likely to 
have occurred.   
Mr B has pointed to the statements of the police officers and also to the paperwork from the 
recovery agent to show that the car did not have any damage prior to the recovery. 
However, I am not persuaded that the evidence demonstrates what Mr B says it does. The 
marks and scratches on the vehicle are quoted in the forensic engineers report as being fair 
wear and tear, are the sort of damage that only a keen professional eye would pick up. 
This indicates it is not obvious to someone on a cursory inspection.  I think it is likely that 
when police officers attend car recoveries in this sort of situation, they are looking for 
obvious signs of damage amounting to criminal damage, rather than undertaking a detailed 
examination of the vehicle. Im satisfied that it is likely that they would overlook or dismiss 
minor scratches and marks which they felt were wear and tear and accept the owners 
account of whether there is any significant or new damage. Also, in this case, when Mr B 
attended to recover the car with the police officers, Mr B told them he was happy that the 
outside of the vehicle was unchanged. This is likely to have informed how detailed an 
inspection the officers took, and to have influenced their view.  I have therefore taken into 
account Mr Bs evidence about the police officers statements, but on balance I dont think it 
is inconsistent with the forensic engineers report. 
I therefore think that Covea have acted reasonably in accepting the forensic engineers 
assessment of the bodywork damage to the car being as a result of fair wear and tear that 
was present prior to the theft. I note that the engineer thinks most of the damage identified 
and included in the estimate is consistent with the sort of chips, marks and minor scratching 
of a car with almost 50000 miles on the clock. He has only excluded the damage to the 
wheels which he feels may have been caused during the theft.  
In respect of the damage to the wheels, I see that the first police officer on the scene noted 
the marks to the wheels as significant, although Mr B did not spot these himself. As they 
were present before the car was transported anywhere, the only question is whether they 
were caused during the theft. The forensic engineer thinks it is likely, and as such I think it is 
fair and reasonable for Covea to consider this damage as part of the claim and pay for these 
repairs. As this is the case, Mr Bs claim would not have been a key only claim in any event, 
and the excess would have applied.  
As I am persuaded that it is more likely than not the rest of the bodywork damage was 
present before the theft and recovery, there is no basis on which I could direct that Covea 
meet the cost of these repairs.
On a final point, Mr B has complained that he did not have a courtesy car when he was 
without his car for an extended period. The terms of his policy say that a small hatchback 
courtesy car will be provided while the car is being repaired by the insurers nominated 
repairer. The vehicle was with the nominated repairer from 16 April until 25 April when it was 
moved to Mr Bs chosen repairer. However, Mr B told Covea that he did not want it repaired 
by their nominated repairer on 18 April, and he wanted a cash settlement. As the car was 
therefore not being repaired, I do not think Mr B was entitled to a courtesy car under the 
terms of the policy.  Trouble and upset
I can appreciate that this whole incident has been upsetting and stressful for Mr B and for his 
partner. 
I also accept that when things like this happen, the response of the insurance company can 
either make things better very quickly or can cause an escalation of the stress experienced 
by the consumer if they do not respond as quickly or as clearly as we would expect. There 
has clearly been some confusion caused by Coveas communication in this case. They were 
not clear about the position as to whether the no claims discount would be affected, whether 
an excess was applicable, and then later on they made an offer to settle which was 
subsequently withdrawn. 
In view of their failings in customer service, Covea have waived the £675 excess. Given that 
their ultimate decision not to pay the majority of the claim is fair and reasonable, I find that 
this is a far figure to cover the trouble and upset caused to Mr B by their failings. 
 
My final decision
I will not therefore be asking Covea Insurance plc to do anything further.
 
They have offered to pay £2443.44 to Mr B in respect of the repairs he had undertaken by 
his own repairer, and I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman