DRN-4151499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited provided poor customer 
service when Mr C required medical assistance abroad.
For ease, any mention of Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr and Mrs C took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten 
by Admiral. Whilst on a trip abroad, Mr C became seriously ill and was admitted to hospital. 
Mr and Mrs Cs daughter, who was also on the trip, contacted Admiral and it said it would 
need information regarding Mr Cs medical history from his GP in order to validate the claim. 
Admiral also said it would need information from the hospital abroad. 
Mr C remained in the hospital for four days which meant he missed his original flight home. 
Mrs C extended her stay in their original accommodation and Mr C joined her there after he 
was discharged  they remained there until they returned to the UK a week later. As Admiral 
hadnt received the medical records from Mr Cs GP by this point, Mr and Mrs C had to pay 
for the medical expenses incurred, along with additional travel and accommodation costs. A 
claim was made for these costs.
Mr and Mrs C made a complaint to Admiral regarding the poor service they received when 
abroad. They said Admiral failed to offer a minimum level of support and that, due to the time 
it took for Admiral to confirm that the claim was covered, Mr Cs relatives were left to 
navigate his discharge and repatriation back home on their own. They were also unhappy 
that Admiral had failed to inform them of the £1000 policy limit for additional accommodation 
until at least four days after they had extended their stay.
Admiral looked into their complaint. It said that multiple requests were sent to the hospital for 
the medical information, but these were unsuccessful. Admiral also said that it had chased 
the GP surgery several times for the details it needed but this wasnt received until after they 
had returned back to the UK. Until these medical checks were completed Admiral said it 
couldnt take over the payment of any costs for hospital bills, hotels or flights. Admiral did 
note that it could have been clearer in its communication and also timelier with providing 
details of the policy limit for additional accommodation. It offered £300 as compensation.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter and said the delay in obtaining information from Mr Cs 
GP was beyond Admirals control. However, he did think that Admiral could have done more 
to keep in touch with Mr and Mrs C and their family, especially as there was a five-day 
period where it failed to provide any updates to them at all. He recommended that the 
compensation be increased to £500 for the service issues they experienced. 
He also thought it was clear in the policy that there was a limit for additional accommodation 
and so Mr and Mrs C had been given enough information by Admiral when they took out the 
cover. He also noted that Mr and Mrs C had rebooked the same accommodation after they 
had been informed of the policy limit so he didnt think this would have necessarily altered 
their choice of accommodation if they had been told at the outset.
Admiral accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr and Mrs C didnt. They said that they 
didnt think it adequately reflected how Admirals actions affected them and their family. And 
in relation to the accommodation, they said Admiral offered no practical help when they 
advised them of the policy limit. As Mr C had just come out of hospital, they said their 
thoughts at that time were just to ensure his wellbeing, not on finding a new hotel.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. I acknowledge that Ive summarised the complaint in 
far less detail than Mr and Mrs C but in deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs C. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs Cs claim for the expenses they incurred whilst abroad has been considered as a 
separate complaint and therefore does not form part of this decision. I will therefore not be 
commenting on any aspect of the coverage of the claim here.
Communication and assistance whilst abroad
When Mr and Mrs Cs daughter made Admiral aware of her fathers hospitalisation it advised 
it would need medical reports from the GP to confirm the claim would be covered. This isnt 
an unusual request as it is often necessary for insurers to check a patients previous medical 
history to ensure that the claim meets the terms and conditions of the policy. I can see that 
the GP surgery said the information would be delayed due to staff holidays and it wasnt sent 
until after Mr C had returned home. This delay was beyond Admirals control.
Admiral also contacted the hospital abroad to receive medical reports about Mr Cs 
condition. From the case notes it appears Admiral emailed and called the hospital on a 
frequent basis but didnt receive the information until at least three days after Mr C was 
admitted and the day before he was discharged. As with the GP report, Admiral was unable 
to prevent the delay in obtaining this information  Im persuaded that proactive contact was 
made with the hospital in order to speed up this process. So, I dont think Admiral could have 
done anything differently in relation to obtaining this information any quicker.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they felt like their family had been deserted and left to deal with 
everything themselves. I can fully appreciate that this was an incredibly distressing time for 
the family and that they would have wanted the support of Admiral to help them through. 
Admiral has recognised that it didnt make contact as often as it should have, and all 
communication was initiated by Mr and Mrs Cs daughter. It offered £300 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs C for the service they received. 
Ive thought about this very carefully, but I dont think this amount is enough. As our 
investigator noted, there were times when Admiral didnt keep Mr and Mrs C updated with 
what was happening, and in fact there was a period of five days where no contact was made 
with the family at all. This was following Mr Cs discharge from hospital, and he was anxious to know when he could return to the UK. There does appear to have been differing opinions 
regarding the method by which Mr C should return home and so this period of no contact 
would have added to the stress for them. In the circumstances, I agree that the 
compensation should be increased to £500 in recognition of the distress the lack of 
communication would have had on Mr and Mrs C.
Policy limit advice
Mr and Mrs C say Admiral didnt inform them of the policy limit for the additional 
accommodation until part way through their extended stay. Theyve said if they had been 
told earlier, they could have moved to cheaper accommodation. It does seem that Admiral 
didnt make Mr Cs daughter aware of the limit until five days after he was admitted, and this 
was several days into their extended stay abroad. Admiral has noted that it didnt let them 
know at the outset and apologised for not providing this information earlier.
I appreciate that it would have been helpful for Admiral to have provided this information at 
the point of the claim being notified. But I can see that this information was already available 
to Mr and Mrs C in their policy documents  and it is specifically mentioned at the top of the 
Insurance Product Information Document which is a two-page summary of the cover. Im 
sure this wouldnt have been uppermost in their minds, taking into account that they would 
have been more worried about Mr C being in hospital. But the policy documents are clear in 
setting out the limit. And in considering the compensation, Ive taken both aspects into 
account.
Ive also noted Mr and Mrs Cs point about moving to cheaper accommodation if they had 
been aware earlier. From the information provided, it would appear that Mr and Mrs C 
continued to rebook the same hotel, even after being told of the policy limit. Mr and Mrs C 
have said their thoughts were on Mr Cs wellbeing, not on finding a new hotel  I dont think 
that mindset would have been different even if Admiral had informed them of the limit earlier. 
So, Im not persuaded that they would have necessarily chosen to move to different 
accommodation even if they had been told at the outset. 
In conclusion, based on what Ive seen, I think Admiral should pay £500 compensation in 
total in recognition of the poor service it provided. I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I partially uphold this complaint.
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C £200 in compensation 
which is in addition to the £300 already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman