DRN-3271942
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined her chargeback claim.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss H asked Barclays to start a chargeback claim for a payment she 
authorised for an item she purchased online. Miss H says the item wasnt received and 
wanted her money back.
Miss H told Barclays that the delivery address was a family members and, although the 
merchant says the item was delivered, it was never received by the intended recipient. 
Barclays declined the chargeback claim  Miss H was unhappy with this and raised a 
complaint.
In its response, the bank said the merchant and the courier it used confirmed the item was 
delivered and signed for. It added that the courier checked with its driver who said the item 
was delivered to the reception area of the delivery address. Miss H didnt agree with this 
because she contacted the merchant and was told that the item was in transit on a particular 
day  but was later told the item was in fact delivered before that day. Barclays commented 
on this by saying that the couriers system likely took a few days to update.
Remaining unhappy, Miss H asked our service to look into her complaint. One of our 
investigators decided that Barclays declined the chargeback fairly and in line with the 
relevant rules. The investigator made reference to the delivery evidence provided by the 
merchant and was satisfied that Barclays relied on this fairly. Miss H didnt agree and 
questioned why the investigator found the merchants information more persuasive than her 
word. Miss H also challenged the processes followed by the courier, which is something our 
investigator explained we cannot look in to.
Because Miss H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its useful to point out that the chargeback scheme is a voluntary code that Barclays is 
part of. Theres no guarantee that a chargeback claim will be successful in recovering funds 
for a customer and Barclays is required to follow the relevant card scheme rules  which, in 
this case is set out by VISA. Ive considered these rules as part of my decision.
The chargeback process allows the relevant merchant the opportunity to defend the claim. 
Generally, card issuers wont take a chargeback any further at this stage if the submission 
by the merchant is satisfactory. But, if the bank thinks its necessary, the claim can be 
escalated to the arbitration stage  where the card scheme (in this case VISA) decides 
whether the chargeback should be granted based on its rules. Ive considered whether 
Barclays fairly declined the chargeback.
Under the VISA rules, Miss H had a valid reason to raise the dispute. The rules say that a 
dispute may be raised where the goods havent been received because the merchant was 
unwilling or unable to provide it. In this instance, Miss H says the item she purchased wasnt 
delivered to the recipient. However, having a valid reason for dispute doesnt necessarily 
mean the chargeback shouldve been successful and that Miss H shouldve had the funds 
returned to her.  
As I said above, after Barclays started the chargeback process, it wouldve given the 
merchant the opportunity to defend the claim. The VISA rules say that, where such a dispute 
is raised, then the merchant will need to prove that Miss H or an authorised person received 
the item at the agreed location. Ive seen a copy of the couriers tracking history, which 
shows the item was delivered to the agreed location on 12 February 2021 and was signed 
for. 
The couriers notes also show that the relevant driver was consulted after Miss H enquired 
about non-receipt of the item  the notes indicate that the driver is familiar with the delivery 
address in question and said the item was delivered to the reception area at this address. 
Based on this, I think its more likely than not that the item Miss H purchased was delivered 
to the agreed location. So I think Barclays acted fairly by relying on the merchants 
information to decline the chargeback claim.
Miss H references the communication she had with the merchant around the time via its 
online chat. Ive seen a copy of this and I can see that Miss H was told on 14 February that 
the item was still in transit. Miss H thinks this throws doubt as to whether the item was 
actually delivered. I agree that this does demonstrate a degree of inconsistency as to what 
happened. 
But I do note that the merchant provided this update to Miss H during the weekend and the 
most recent tracking history indicates that the item was delivered just before the weekend. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays concluded that the couriers system didnt 
update until after the weekend. So Im not persuaded that the information Miss H was given 
by the merchant via its chat service is enough to say that the chargeback claim shouldve 
been successful.
Miss H is concerned that Barclays has taken the merchants side over hers in this matter. I 
understand Miss Hs concerns, particularly as she says shes lost out on a sum of money 
because the item she purchased wasnt received. But I dont think the bank has picked sides 
here. In fact, it seems to me that the bank provided Miss H the opportunity to challenge the 
merchants submission at the time. And Barclays waited the agreed response period before 
closing the claim. So I think the bank gave Miss H a fair opportunity to put forward her 
submissions. And as I said earlier, Barclays is bound by the VISA rules and it is this 
services role here to consider whether the bank applied the rules fairly  and Ive explained 
why I think it did. 
Miss H questions the actions of the courier and suggests the courier shouldve done more 
when completing the delivery  such as taking a photo or sending Miss H an electronic 
confirmation as soon as the item was delivered. But this service is bound by its rules which 
means it can only investigate regulated activities carried out by regulated firms. The actions of the courier isnt something this service can look in to. In this instance, I can only comment 
on whether Barclays declined the chargeback claim fairly.
In summary, Barclays relied on the merchants evidence and fairly declined the chargeback 
claim. So I wont be instructing it to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman