DRN-3064465
The complaint
Mr P complains about the default that MBNA Limited has recorded on his credit file in 
relation to his credit card account and about the service that hes received from it.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card account with MBNA that was in arrears in September 2016. MBNA 
says that it sent a default notice to Mr P but it hasnt been able to provide a copy of that 
notice and Mr P says that he didnt receive it. The account was defaulted and then 
transferred to a third party in December 2016.
Mr P made a data subject access request to MBNA and complained to it about the default. It 
said that it wasnt able to provide a copy of the notice and that no request was received from 
Mr P to change his address. Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so he complained to this 
service. He says that he wants MBNA to provide answers to his complaint, remove all the 
data from the credit reference agencies, complete a medical write-off, investigate the 
conduct of the third party, supply the information requested and provide compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
hadnt found any evidence that the default was added in error. She said MBNA had spoken 
with Mr P in June 2016 when he confirmed his address and there was no further contact with 
him until it sent him a default notice to the address in its records in September 2016. She 
said that she didnt have any grounds to tell MBNA to remove the default.
Mr P says that his complaint to MBNA revolves around the mistakes that happened in 2016 
and not just that the default notice, a payment plan, and transcripts and data from the calls 
from then cant be produced. He says that MBNAs lack of customer service hasnt been 
considered and its not acceptable for MBNA to say it sent default notices but then be unable 
to produce them or the correct correspondence. He says that he was under the care of his 
doctor which was brought to the attention of MBNA and he understood that his account 
would be managed differently as he was on a payment plan. He says that MBNA hasnt 
followed the guidelines for dealing with vulnerable customers and that the data should be 
altered to show the correct position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
MBNA has provided copies of its system notes which show its dealings with Mr P  
its provided evidence to show that he confirmed his address to it in June 2016 and it 
says that theres no record of him contacting it about a change of address before the 
default notice was sent to him;
it also says that it spoke with him at that time about the arrears on his account and he 
said that he was out of work and that he would call back to provide information about 
his income and expenditure  but didnt do so;
it says that a notice of default was sent to Mr P in September 2016 as the balance of 
his account was £9,914.82 and there were arrears of £1,186.47 which needed to be 
paid by a specified date to prevent a default being recorded on his credit file;
the system notes show that the notice of default was sent to Mr P and I consider it to 
be more likely than not that it was sent to the address for Mr P that it held in its 
account records  there would be no reason for it to have sent the default notice to 
another address  Mr P says that he didnt receive the notice and that it was sent to 
the wrong address but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it 
was sent to the wrong address;
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that MBNA is unable to provide a copy of the 
notice (and other evidence that hes requested) but, having considered all of the 
available evidence, I consider it to be more likely than not that the notice was sent to 
him, even if he didnt receive it;
MBNA says that further attempts were made to contact Mr P but were unsuccessful 
so the account was defaulted in October 2016 and that it wrote to him again in 
November 2016 to say that the account might be sold to a third party  and its 
system notes show that the account was sold to a third party in December 2016;
Mr P has provided evidence of his medical issues  and I sympathise with him for 
those issues  but Ive seen no evidence to show that those issues had been 
diagnosed in September 2016 or that MBNA had been advised of his medical issues 
at that time  and Im not persuaded that there enough evidence to show that it 
should have identified that he was a vulnerable customer at that time;
Ive seen no evidence to show that MBNA had agreed to a payment plan before the 
default was recorded;
I understand that the third party has now written-off the debt that was owed by Mr P 
because of his medical issues which are likely to prevent him from gaining 
employment  but this complaint is made about MBNA and Im unable to consider the 
actions of the third party in this decision;
the default that MBNA has recorded will be removed after six years  so in about 
October 2022;
I sympathise with Mr P for the issues that hes experienced and for the difficulties that 
hes been caused by the default, but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
to show that MBNA acted incorrectly when it defaulted Mr Ps account or that the 
customer service that its provided to him fell below a reasonably acceptable 
standard; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
MBNA to remove the default from Mr Ps credit file, to pay him any compensation or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman