DRN-2879284
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline 
a claim made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr Ls dog, who Ill call M, was suffering from pancreatitis. Unfortunately, M 
took a turn for the worse, and Mr L had needed to make the difficult decision to put M to 
sleep. 
Mr L understood that his insurance policy provided cover to him for the death of M. He noted 
that his policy schedule said that for the death of a pet, the policy would pay £750. But, when 
Mr L contacted Red Sands to make this claim, he was told that he didnt have cover for this. 
And the explanation given was that the policy didnt provide this element of cover, because 
M was over eight years of age.
Mr L was unhappy with Red Sands position. He said that in declining the claim Red Sands 
were referring to small print contained in the policy. And Mr L felt he had been mis-led as to 
the cover he had in place for M. He explained that the schedule didnt highlight there was an 
exclusion to the death of pet benefit because a result of Ms age. Mr L noted that Red Sands 
had known Ms age when it had insured him and had drawn other parts of the policy to his 
attention, that were impacted by age, in the same schedule. 
Unhappy with Red Sands decline to settle his claim, he raised his concerns with it. Mr L 
explained that the situation had been very stressful, having needed to make the decision to 
put M to sleep. And that he had seen some reassurance that he could make a claim, receive 
£750, and put this towards costs, or to plant a tree in honour of M. But, as above he felt Red 
Sands had mis-led him in terms of the policy cover.
Red Sands responded and said it was satisfied it had acted in line with the policy terms. It 
noted that the policy didnt provide cover for the death of a pet, which the pet was over the 
age of eight, and had died of an illness. And it said it had made the terms of the policy clear. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied with Red Sands response. And so, he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
thought the terms and conditions of the policy made it clear the claim wasnt covered, and 
she didnt think Mr L had been misled as to the cover in place.
Mr L didnt agree. He reiterated that other age-related limitations had been pointed out in the 
policy schedule provided to him, but not the limitations for the death of a pet. And, he did 
believe this was mis-leading. 
Because Mr L didnt agree with our investigators opinion, this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing to 
Mr L. He has explained how hard the situation was for him  and I can see why. Ive 
explained my reason for the decision Ive reached below.
Ive considered Mr Ls policy documents, to see what this says. Mr Ls policy schedule, 
which was sent to him at renewal starts with the following;
Your policy has come up for review. This document together with Your Complete Guide to 
Your Pet Policy outlines the basis on which we are able to offer your renewalPlease read 
the documents carefully to ensure that what we are offering meets with your individual 
requirements
Given the above, Im aware that the policy schedule needs to be read alongside the 
complete guide to the pet insurance policy (the policy booklet). And, I think this makes it 
clear to Mr L that this is the case too.
Looking at the policy schedule further, it goes on to detail different areas of cover under the 
policy. It notes that maximum benefit payable for a range of different areas of cover. And one 
of these is death of a pet  showing the maximum of £750. As this is a maximum total, Im 
satisfied the schedule is clear that it is possible to be paid out this amount  but doesnt say 
this is a set amount regardless of the situation.
Ive also considered the policy booklet mentioned above, to see what it says about this area 
of cover. And can see that in the policy summary it is explained that death of a pet, through 
illness, is not covered if the pet is over eight years of age. And, under the death of pet 
section of the policy, the following is detailed;
Cover
We will pay a percentage of them market value, the price paid or the amount specified in 
your schedule (whichever is lesser) if your pet dies during the policy year or is put down for 
humane reasons because of injury or illness that happened or started during the policy 
period, taking into account the age, breed and condition of your pet as further detailed 
below;
()
From 8 years and over: 25% - Injury only (See exclusion 2.3.6).
And the referred to exclusions says the policy doesnt cover death due to an illness of any 
dog or cat aged 8 years or over at the commencement date or any renewal period.
I do appreciate Mr L doesnt feel this was made clear enough. But I do think the information 
contained above is clear in letting Mr L know that he would be covered under this section, up 
to 25% (or a maximum of £750) for death by injury, but not for illness when M was over eight 
years old. And, because Im aware M was 15 years of age, and unfortunately needed to be 
put to sleep because of illness, Im satisfied Red Sands acted fairly, and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy when making the decision to decline Mr Ls claim.Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls points in respect of being mis-led as to the policy cover. 
Including Mr Ls comments that Red Sands knew Ms age when the policy renewed. And that 
other age-related limitations have been noted in the policy schedule, namely that a co-
payment would apply on the policy. 
But Im satisfied the information provided wasnt mis-leading. As above, I do think the terms 
and conditions of the policy were clearly set out, as I would have expected them to be. It 
wouldnt be possible for all limitations and exclusions to cover to be noted in the schedule. 
And I think Red Sands did draw the fact this was a maximum benefit  and that the full terms 
and conditions needed to be read. So, Im satisfied Mr L was provided with the information 
he needed to make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for him or not, 
and to let him know what cover was being offered. 
So, I dont think Red Sands did anything wrong in respect of the cover it provided, or the way 
this was explained to Mr L. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman