DRN-2864915
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Premium Credit Limited are withholding a refund he is due after 
they cancelled their agreement.
What happened
In 2019, Mr B took out a regulated credit agreement with Premium Credit Limited to pay for a 
football season ticket.
Mr Bs first repayment, of £130.85, went through OK. But his second payment bounced while 
he was on holiday, and by the time Mr B paid the second payment it was past the deadline.
Premium Credit cancelled the agreement and refunded the second payment, but kept the 
first one.
Mr B explained that because the agreement was cancelled, he didnt actually get provided 
with the season ticket. He provided evidence from the football club showing that he bought 
his season ticket separately by paying for it in full, after Premium Credit had cancelled the 
credit agreement.
Premium Credit claimed that they didnt even know what service the credit agreement was 
for, and that for all they knew Mr B could have received what he paid for. Therefore they 
didnt feel they should refund the money they took.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They pointed 
out that Premium Credit clearly did know what the agreement was for as the documents that 
they themselves sent Mr B set out that it was for the football club. They explained that Mr B 
had evidenced hed had to buy the season ticket separately as he didnt get it through his 
cancelled credit agreement. They said Premium Credit should refund the payment theyve 
held onto and add simple compensatory interest.
Premium Credit didnt agree. They insisted that Mr B should get the football club to contact 
them and prove he didnt receive the initial season ticket, despite the evidence already 
provided. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Premium Credit and Mr B a provisional decision on 12 May 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Premium Credit must be able to show that they were entitled to hold onto Mr Bs money. 
That means the onus is on them  and not Mr B  to show whether he got the service he 
paid for or not. In other words, it was not fair or reasonable for Premium Credit to have kept 
Mr Bs money for something that they could not evidence he actually received. 
This is especially the case when the evidence strongly suggests that Mr B did not get what 
he paid for. Mr B has forwarded proof from the football club that he ended up having to pay 
for his season ticket separately and in full. This was done after Premium Credit cancelled the 
agreement, and the ticket was in Mr Bs name, not anyone elses. I do not think that Mr B 
wouldve paid for the season ticket a second time if he had already received it via the 
Premium Credit agreement. Further, we know that Mr B wasnt able to use any season ticket 
during the period where the credit agreement was still in place, since that was all during the 
off-season where there were no games to go to.
If Premium Credit want further evidence from the football club, then it is for them to contact 
the club and get such evidence. But as things stand, I cannot see that Premium Credit are 
entitled to withhold Mr Bs funds, and the evidence shows its by far most likely that he did 
not get the season ticket he paid for via Premium Credit.
It follows, then, that I currently plan to direct Premium Credit to refund the £130.85 they have 
kept, and to add 8% simple interest for the duration that theyve kept it  to compensate Mr B 
for the time hes been without his money.
Of course, if in response to this provisional decision (and before the deadline) Premium 
Credit provide evidence which shows that Mr B received the season ticket via the credit 
agreement and was able to use it before it was cancelled, then Ill be happy to reconsider 
this point.
I have also considered how Premium Credit handled things more generally. From what I can 
see, they failed to engage with the matter and do not appear to have been helpful or 
proactive  and this would have been really quite simple for them to have resolved at the 
time. It is disappointing that they allowed it to get to this late stage  Mr B should not have 
needed to come this far just to get a refund of a payment that Premium Credit have not even 
shown theyre entitled to keep. Indeed, Mr B has now been waiting nearly two years to get 
his money back. I understand that this has been most inconvenient for him, and that he 
found the matter stressful. I think Premium Credit need to compensate Mr B for the distress 
and inconvenience they caused.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
9 June 2021. But neither Premium Credit nor Mr B sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Premium Credit Limited to:
Refund the £130.85 payment to Mr B.Pay Mr B 8% simple interest on this amount, calculated from the date the agreement 
was cancelled until the date the payment is returned to Mr B*.
Pay Mr B a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused him.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires businesses to take tax off this simple interest. Premium Credit 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one. Mr B can claim 
the tax back from HMRC if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint, and direct Premium Credit Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman