DRN-3119609
The complaint
Mr M complains that Xbridge Limited arranged an insurance policy for his business that 
didnt cover the nature of his business.
  
What happened
Mr M had an insurance policy covering his business. Xbridge is the broker that arranged the 
policy in 2013, and its subsequent renewals.
Theres two parts to Mr Ms business. Xbridge says, when Mr M took the policy out in 2013, 
he only declared one part of his business. It says, whilst the insurer did originally cover the 
type of business that was declared, the insurer has never covered the type of business he 
didnt declare. Mr M says he would have declared the full extent of his business in 2013.
Xbridge says, from about 2017, the insurer was also no longer offering cover for the type of 
business that Mr M had declared in 2013. However, Xbridge didnt inform Mr M of this 
change and it continued to renew his policy.
The cover issues came to light in early-2021, when Mr M contacted Xbridge to make some 
amendments to his policy. The insurer cancelled the policy as, going forward, it wasnt 
prepared to offer Mr M any cover. 
Xbridge says the insurer cancelled the policy, rather than voiding it, as it was still prepared to 
accept the risk, in relation to the declared part of the business, up until the cancellation date. 
This was despite the change to its underwriting criteria in 2017. 
Xbridge says if Mr M needs to make a claim for an event that occurred before the policy was 
cancelled, in relation to the declared part of the business, the insurer will consider the claim 
in-line with the policy terms. However, Xbridge says the insurer wont, and would never 
have, covered events in relation to the part of the business that wasnt declared.
Xbridge offered Mr M £150 compensation for the concern and inconvenience he was caused 
by it incorrectly renewing the policy since 2017. Mr M declined the offer. He would like the 
premiums hes paid since 2013 to be refunded.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she thought Xbridges £150 offer was 
fair. Because Mr M disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed Xbridge made an error from 2017 onwards, by renewing the policy. I can 
understand Mr Ms upset and concern. However, Im not persuaded that refunding the 
premiums would be appropriate. Ill explain why.
If Mr M makes a claim for any events that occurred between when the policy was first taken 
out in 2013 and when it was cancelled in 2021, should the insurer not fully cover the claim, 
he can complain to Xbridge and/or the insurer.
If an insurer doesnt settle a claim because of a mistake by the broker, we would generally 
require the broker to step into the insurers shoes, by settling the claim in-line with the
policy terms that ought to have been in place. So, this would apply to the part of the 
business that Xbridge says was declared by Mr M.
If the insurer doesnt settle a claim in relation to the part of the business that Xbridge says 
wasnt declared by Mr M, and Xbridge says its not responsible, we can, at that time, 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the claim being made.
Importantly, should Mr M need to make a claim in the future for something that happened 
whilst the policy was in force, this service wouldnt expect him to suffer a detriment due to 
Xbridges mistake. The policy hasnt been voided, so Mr M will be able to make a claim 
against it, should he need to.
Because the policy hasnt been voided, and because we wouldnt expect Mr M to lose out in 
the event of a claim due to a mistake by Xbridge, I cant reasonably direct Xbridge to refund 
the premiums. Mr M has received the benefit of the cover, and at this time, he hasnt 
suffered a loss.
I accept Mr M has suffered a degree of upset and inconvenience upon learning that Xbridge 
ought to have acted in 2017. But overall, I consider Xbridges £150 offer to be a fair 
acknowledgment of the impact the situation can reasonably be said to have had.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
My final decision is Xbridge Limited should pay Mr M £150 compensation. I make no further 
awards.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman