DRN-4186471
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to decline a claim made under 
her pet insurance.
What happened
Mrs P has been represented in making this complaint by a family member. For ease of 
reference, Ill simply refer to Mrs P throughout this decision.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs P has pet insurance underwritten by Great Lakes to cover her dog. She took out the 
policy in 2021 and renewed it in July 2022.
The policy differs from many other pet insurance policies in that it has an annual excess 
rather than an excess which is paid with each separate claim. The annual excess in Mrs Ps 
case was £69.
In September 2002. Mrs P made a claim for £56.86. And in October 2022, she made a claim 
for £65.74. 
Both claims were declined by Great Lakes agents on the basis that they didnt exceed the 
annual excess of £69.
Mrs P wasnt happy with this and complained to Great Lakes. She thought the £69 excess 
had in effect been paid  with the first declined claim and a small part of the second. And 
she said claims had been settled on that basis in the previous policy year.
Great Lakes explained that the policy terms work in the following way  the excess is only 
considered to be paid when there is a successful claim (and that claim is higher than the £69 
excess). After that, there is no excess on any further claims. 
But where claims are lower than the excess, and so not successful claims, the excess is not 
considered to have been paid. The policyholder has, in other words, simply paid for 
treatment or medication which falls below the claim threshold.
Great Lakes said the previous policy years claims had been paid in error. But they said that 
had been their responsibility, so they werent looking to reclaim the money from Mrs P.
Mrs P wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what the policy terms say. Its clearly set out that Great 
Lakes will expect policyholders to pay an annual excess of, in Mrs Ps case, £69. And that 
after that excess is paid, there will be no further excess charges during the rest of that policy 
year.
I know this will disappoint Mrs P, but I dont think its unfair of Great Lakes to deal with the 
claims in the way they have.
I can see how and why Mrs P may have thought that payments for treatment she made, 
below the £69 threshold, would count towards it. But thats not what the policy terms say.
In essence, you only pay an excess when a claim is settled. In that case, you, the 
policyholder, pay the excess and the insurer picks up the bill for the remainder of the costs. 
But if the insurer isnt settling the claim because its below the threshold, then you havent 
paid an excess. Youve paid for the treatment, but you havent paid an excess.
I realise this relies on policyholders having an understanding of what the term excess 
actually means. But on balance, I dont think its unfair for Great Lakes to rely on customers 
having that understanding.
I understand Mrs Ps point that a fuller explanation might have been given in the policy 
terms. But I also note that when you purchase a policy from Great Lakes, as Mrs P did, there 
is an option to click on a link which takes you to a fuller explanation of how the annual 
excess works. This document makes it clear that the annual excess is only cleared when a 
successful claim is made. 
I have considered the fact that Great Lakes settled claims in the previous policy year on the 
basis that smaller (unsuccessful) claims did count towards the annual excess being paid. 
Great Lakes have explained that was an error. And it is true to say that Mrs P benefitted 
from that error and hasnt been asked to pay that money back.
However, I can see that there might be an argument that Mrs P has now suffered 
disappointed expectations as a result of Great Lakes previous error and/or that she may 
have renewed the policy on the basis of a misunderstanding caused by Great Lakes error.
On balance though, I dont think compensation for those disappointed expectations and/or 
potentially misinformed renewal is justified in this case. Ill explain why.
To begin with, Mrs P did in fact benefit from the previous error and Great Lakes have  quite 
rightly  accepted that and allowed it to pass.
Secondly, Great Lakes annual excess in fact clearly does bring benefits for customers like 
Mrs P. In policies which have an excess for each claim, that excess is paid by the 
policyholder every time they make a (successful) claim. Whereas, with Great Lakes policy 
terms, you pay the excess only once and all remaining claims in the policy year are fully met.
Mrs Ps representative sent us some examples of other pet insurance policies and how they 
set out the excess(es) payable by the policyholder. I understand that the main aim of that 
was to show that excesses were better explained by other providers (though I note they 
were mostly, if not entirely, policies with the more traditional excess per each claim, which is 
fundamentally simpler  and easier to explain).But what they also show is that excesses can vary (depending on how large you want your 
premiums to be), but the £69 annual excess in Mrs Ps policy isnt significantly higher than 
most excesses paid on every single claim in other policies.
In other words, the annual excess is not a ruse used by Great Lakes to trick customers into 
buying policies with the promise of benefits which arent in fact ever realised. Its a genuine 
option which may be of real benefit to many customers. 
On balance then, I dont think its justifiable to say Mrs P only renewed her policy with Great 
Lakes because of the error they made in the way theyd settled claims in the previous year. 
In other words, even if Mrs P had known in July 2022 how Great Lakes really dealt with the 
annual excess payment, its by no means clear she could have then sought out a policy 
which better suited her needs. 
Mrs P will realise that with most of the policies her representative quoted to us, the small 
claims she made in September and October 2022 would not have cleared the excess and 
would not have been settled. And the excess would have remained payable on every dingle 
claim she made after that point too  whether or not any of those claims were successful.
By contrast, Great Lakes would stop charging an excess after the very first instance of a 
successful (large enough) claim being made.
I fully understand why Mrs P raised this complaint with Great Lakes and then with us. But I 
cant reasonably conclude that Great Lakes have treated her unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way theyve handled her claims in the policy year beginning in July 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman