DRN-3350685
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) lent to him irresponsibly and gave him a loan 
higher than what he had requested and at a higher interest rate. 
What happened
Mr O requested a loan of £25,000 from TSB in December 2019 but this was declined and 
instead they offered him a loan for £36,196.37. Mr O then experienced financial difficulties 
and complained to TSB about their decision to offer him a loan for a higher amount than he 
had requested and at a much higher interest rate. 
TSB responded and said they understand Mr O initially applied for a loan for £25,000 which 
was declined. They said a written appeal was then sent and this was assessed by their 
Personal Lending Department (PLD). They said the PLD said they would approve a larger 
loan for Mr O but with certain conditions. They said Mr O accepted their loan for £36,196.37, 
which was used to pay off two existing TSB loans totalling £23,334.26, a TSB credit card for 
£2,802.64 and other borrowing totalling £10,059.47. TSB said the interest rate for this loan 
was higher with monthly repayments of £810.17 per month. TSB said Mr O was aware that 
the interest rate was higher on the new loan than his previous loans and he would be paying 
more interest. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. He thought TSBs lending decision wasnt 
unfair. Mr O disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
TSB needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr O could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think TSB carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that TSB needed to complete shouldve been dependent 
on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit 
and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of 
information TSB may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate 
assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the 
information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the 
customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
TSB is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete proportionate 
checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, TSB say they consider information 
provided in the application, the way a customer runs their accounts with TSB and information 
they receive from the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). I can see TSB carried out an 
affordability assessment which took into account Mr Os net monthly income, other external 
borrowing, his monthly expenses and information from CRAs. TSB say they also took into 
account how Mr O was managing his accounts with them. Looking at the information 
gathered to consider Mr Os application for a loan, I think these are reasonable and 
proportionate as they take into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are 
the type I would reasonably expect because they would help TSB to not only build a picture 
of Mr Os financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the 
credit in a sustainable way. 
 
The next point Ive considered is whether TSB made a fair lending decision bearing in mind 
the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Os circumstances. TSB say they 
took into account information on Mr Os loan application, so Ive looked at this to see what 
this wouldve shown. This shows Mr Os net monthly income as £2,362 and expenses, 
including the loan, as £1,525.58. This would leave Mr O with a monthly disposable income of 
£836.42. I can also see Mr O was asked whether he was aware of any circumstances likely 
to affect his ability to repay the loan and he confirmed he wasnt. Ive also looked at how    
Mr O was managing his two bank accounts with TSB in the three months leading up to his 
loan application. Mr O had an arranged overdraft of £500 on both accounts and I can see his 
balance was kept within the overdraft limit with no default fees being applied. 
The information shows Mr O had other borrowing with TSB and external borrowing but I 
think its important to note this loan wasnt in addition to all other borrowing - it was to 
consolidate all other debts. I can see TSB declined Mr Os original request for a loan of 
£25,000 but then, on appeal from Mr O, offered him a loan of £36,196.37 but with the strict 
condition that this is used to clear all outstanding borrowing. And, I can see this was done at 
branch in the presence of a staff member.
Taking this all into account, I dont think the information highlighted any issues with Mr Os 
financial circumstances. So, I cant say TSB shouldve identified that Mr O wouldnt be able 
to make repayments without undue difficulty and wouldnt be able to meet other 
commitments without having to borrow further. I can see Mr O was subsequently made 
redundant from his work in 2021 and I am sorry to hear about the impact this had on Mr O. 
But, the financial difficulties arising out of this isnt something TSB wouldve been aware of at 
the time they agreed to offer Mr O the loan. Im looking at the lending decision made by TSB 
in 2019. And, the information Ive seen doesnt suggest TSBs decision to lend was unfair.     
I can see Mr O says hes concerned about being given the loan while in a vulnerable position 
and that TSB took the opportunity to lend him more money than he requested and on a 
higher interest rate than he was paying on his existing loans with TSB. 
I do acknowledge this and I have noted Mr Os reasons for requiring a loan at the time he 
requested this in 2019. But, system notes provided by TSB show the loan wasnt the only 
option discussed with Mr O. TSB also discussed the option of a further advance to Mr O but 
the notes say Mr O declined this due to personal reasons. 
I do acknowledge Mr Os point about there being a difference in what he requested and what 
TSB were prepared to offer him, but TSB say it was their commercial decision to offer the 
loan on the terms they did. I understand Mr O wanted £25,000 to consolidate his TSB borrowing only but the information shows this was considered by TSB and a decision made 
to decline Mr Os application on these terms. TSB say they werent prepared to offer a new 
loan which just refinanced the TSB debt. The increased loan amount was offered with 
conditions which included consolidating all debt. While this is a commercial decision taken 
by TSB, I dont think this was unreasonable given that the system notes show Mr O 
explained to TSB that consolidating all his debt into one single payment was important for 
him. 
I understand Mr O is concerned his request for a loan for £25,000 was declined but a higher 
amount was approved. And, I note Mr O says the £25,000 loan was for a term of 84 months 
and, at an interest rate of 3.2%, wouldve reduced his monthly repayments from £706 to 
£332 and freed up £374 per month. Mr O says, the loan offered by TSB only reduced his 
payments by £90. I understand Mr Os concern, but as mentioned above, TSB werent 
prepared to offer Mr O credit on the basis of his request for £25,000 and to consolidate his 
TSB borrowing only. This is a commercial decision theyve taken and, while they did then 
offer a higher amount, there were conditions attached to this decision which werent applied 
to Mr Os requested loan  and this might explain why Mr Os request was declined. I 
acknowledge Mr Os concern about there only being a difference of £90 between what he 
was paying and his new repayment, but I can see the full terms were explained to Mr O and 
he signed the loan agreement to confirm his acceptance.    
 
Mr O says TSB informed him that a credit card he held with Lender M was coming to the end 
of a 0% interest offer. Mr O says he didnt tell TSB about this and they actively sought out 
this information to offer him a higher loan on a higher interest rate. I acknowledge Mr Os 
point and I can see the system notes show this discussion did take place but the notes show 
this was part of a discussion where TSB were informing Mr O about his current monthly 
outgoings on his borrowing. Specifically, in relation to this credit card, TSB explain what     
Mr Os monthly payment is and what it will be when the 0% interest offer ends. I think it was 
reasonable for TSB to explain this in order for Mr O to consider his options and make an 
informed decision on the loan being offered. I havent seen any information which suggests 
TSB used this information to set their own interest rate.   
I understand Mr O says he took repayment holidays around the time he was offered the loan 
and this was brought to the attention of TSB as well as information showing Mr Os credit 
cards were all at their respective limit. Mr O says the repayment holidays were taken for the 
expenses incurred for his childrens birthday and also car costs. I do understand Mr Os point 
about this showing financial difficulty which is why I think TSBs condition for Mr O to clear all 
outstanding debts was reasonable. Any additional borrowing without a condition to 
consolidate existing debts wouldve put Mr O at risk of missing payments and incurring 
default fees on those credit cards. So, while I acknowledge Mr Os point about his credit 
cards reaching their limit, this wouldnt have been an ongoing position as those accounts 
were going to be cleared.  
I can see Mr O points out that he had additional monthly expenses such as household bills, 
home and car insurance and gym membership  all of these total £1,038. Other than the 
monthly loan repayment, the loan application only contains a mortgage and travel costs as 
Mr Os expenses. 
Given that TSB say they take into account how a customer is managing their accounts with 
them, I think TSB shouldve looked at Mr Os bank statements to determine Mr Os 
expenses. So, Ive looked to see what Mr Os bank statements wouldve shown. Mr Os bank 
statements show regular payments being made in line with the additional monthly expenses 
Mr O has told us about. So, this would suggest Mr Os total monthly outgoings were 
£2,563.58. This exceeds Mr Os monthly income by £201.58. But, even if TSB had 
considered this, I dont think this wouldve changed their lending decision. I say this because, as well as Mr Os salary, one of his bank accounts shows other payments 
being made into the account. For example, theres a payment of £300 in August, £400 in 
September, £590 in October and £900 in November all from the same person. And, theres 
regular transfers being made into the account from Mr Os other TSB account. Mr Os other 
TSB account, from where his expenses are paid, also show regular payments being made in 
from the same person. For example, theres £1,715 in August, £1,630 in September and 
£2,060 in October and again in November. So, given the additional regular payments being 
made into both accounts, this would still leave Mr O with what I think is sufficient disposable 
income even after taking into account the additional expenses which dont appear to have 
been included in Mr Os loan application.    
I can see Mr O raises a concern about TSBs complaints handling. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where 
complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account 
complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say 
the issues which Mr O raises about the complaints handling are an extension of the issues 
which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint handling part of the 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman