DRN-3095497
The complaint
Ms B has complained about how St James Place Wealth Management plc (SJPWM) 
handled her request to take pension benefits.
What happened
Ive considered Ms Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 8 September 
2021. In it I set out what had happened and what Id provisionally decided. Ive repeated that 
here:
Ms B has been a client of SJPWM for some years. In July 2019 she wanted to take 
access her pension benefits. Things didnt go as shed hoped and she complained to 
SJPWM in November 2019.
SJPWMs client liaison officer issued a final response letter on 2 January 2020. Ms Bs 
complaint was summarised as concerns about her advisers ability to understand her 
needs and provide an adequate and bespoke service; a proposed additional advice 
charge (AAC) of £1,725; and confusion about the rates that would be applied to her 
retirement account following the withdrawal. SJPWMs main points were:
Its client liaison officer had reviewed, amongst other things, a confidential 
financial review (CFR) and suitability letter prepared at the time the advice was 
given.
The adviser had initially recommended that Ms B make a withdrawal via the 
UFPLS (uncrystallised funds pension lump sum) method. But he revised that as 
he thought it would limit Ms Bs options in making future pension contributions. He 
emailed Ms B on 8 July 2019 to alter his recommendation to start taking her funds 
via drawdown.
Each option would entail a different rate of charge. The administration centre had 
correctly quoted the annual management charge (AMCs) but there were also 
external management charges (EMCs) dependent on fund selection. And the 
UFPLS route wouldve mean an ongoing charge of 1.7% pa with the drawdown 
option being 1.95% pa. These were indicative charges. The exact charges were 
dependent on fund selection and wouldve been confirmed in an illustration and 
before proceeding with the recommendation.
There was a lengthy discussion on 31 July 2019 to discuss both options and the 
adviser offered to meet with Ms B. Unfortunately, due to very difficult personal 
circumstances, Ms B was unable to meet but said shed consider what had 
been discussed and be in touch. On 11 September 2019 she emailed the 
adviser to ask that he start the process of withdrawing funds via drawdown.
The adviser did that. He contacted Ms B four times over the next two months 
for information but he didnt get everything he needed to complete the 
request.
No AAC had been charged
The adviser hadnt acted incorrectly. But SJPWM hadnt dealt with the complaint 
as efficiently as it couldve done. It apologised and offered £250 for any confusion 
caused. As the relationship with the adviser had broken down, hed been removed 
as Ms B had requested. SJPWM offered to appoint a new adviser if Ms B wanted 
that.
Ms B referred the matter to us. She said she didnt think £250 was adequate. The matter 
had been going on since July 2019. Shed suffered emotional distress, sleepless nights, 
anxiety and inconvenience. She hadnt been able to withdraw funds, she didnt have a 
financial adviser and shed had to borrow money from her family.
Ms B didnt agree with what SJPWM had said in its final response letter. In particular she 
said the adviser was entirely responsible for any confusion about the management charges 
or fees. Shed emailed him on 4 July 2019 for clarification of her options and asking if the 
AAC was payable each time she wanted to make a withdrawal. If the adviser had been 
aware of her needs, he wouldnt have recommended UFPLS before deciding, just a few 
days later, that it wasnt suitable after all. And there was reference to the adviser contacting 
her several times for information which was still outstanding. But shed quickly provided the 
information hed requested. Hed delayed and sought further information in dribs and 
drabs. Shed told him it would be easier if he sent her a list of all the information he 
required for his report in one go. Shed explained she was unable to meet with him and 
why.
Ms B asked for sight of the documents SJPWPs client liaison offer had reviewed 
and confirmation of certain details. She set out a chronology. The main events were:
During a call on 5 July 2019 the adviser recommended UFPLS. But he emailed Ms 
B on 9 July 2019 saying hed realised there was a disadvantage as to the amount 
shed be able to contribute to her pension in the future. So the recommendation 
was to access just the tax free cash via drawdown. The adviser asked for some 
information about Ms Bs mortgage and for details of any other assets or liabilities 
and if Ms B had any other pension plans. But the withdrawal didnt go ahead as Ms 
B told the adviser on 31 July 2019 that shed decided to put things on hold.
Ms B reverted to him on 11 September 2019 and asked him to start the 
drawdown process. She again said she couldnt meet but shed answer any 
queries by telephone or email. On 12 September 2019 the adviser asked Ms B to 
call him but she responded by return to say she couldnt and asked what 
information he needed so she could send it to him. The adviser asked for more 
details by email on 13 September 2019. Ms B provided the information requested 
on 20 September 2019.
The adviser emailed Ms B on 10 October 2019. He raised some further queries. 
He said he was going to be away for just over a week, but Ms Bs reply would be 
picked up by his office and the recommendation report would be completed in his 
absence. He again offered a face to face meeting, on 5 or 6 November 2019.
Ms B replied the following day. She wanted the adviser or a colleague to talk 
things through with her. And she queried the AAC fee. Her email was 
acknowledged by the advisers office on 16 October 2019. The email said the 
adviser would be in contact. Ms B replied expressing unhappiness at how long the 
process was taking.Not having heard further from the adviser by 3 November 2019, Ms B emailed 
again. The adviser replied the following day, but Ms B was unable to open the 
secure message. When it was resent the following day, she saw that further 
information had been requested and that the transaction could only proceed after a 
face to face meeting or telephone call.
On 8 November 2019 Ms B told SJPWM that she no longer wanted the 
advisers services. Shed then made her complaint.
One of our investigators considered Ms Bs complaint. He sent his view on 22 
December 2020. In summary he said:
No suitability report was prepared which wouldve set out SJPs advice and 
recommendations. Looking at the communications between Ms B and the 
adviser, the process wasnt straightforward. The adviser made several 
requests to Ms B for information and had changed his initial recommendation 
to take benefits from UFPLS to drawdown. This made the process longer 
than it shouldve been which added to Ms Bs frustration. But it was to ensure 
the proposed course of action best suited her needs and objectives.
The applicable charges couldve been explained and presented in a clearer 
format by the advisor. That led to Ms B contacting the administration centre 
for clarity which then led to the breakdown of the relationship with the adviser 
and a delay in her decision about taking pension benefits.
 
The £250 compensation offered for the inconvenience and disruption caused 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms B didnt accept the investigators findings. She responded on 9 May 2021, after shed 
seen copies of documents shed requested. She said she was seeking compensation of a 
minimum of £1,000 (more or less a refund of advice charges) for lack of advice since 2012 
to 2019.
We shared Ms Bs comments with SJPWM. We pointed out that Ms B had raised some 
new concerns which SJPWM hadnt considered when it issued its final response. We 
asked SJPWM to consider what shed said about the alleged lack of advice since 2012 
until 2019.
In response SJPWP said its decision as to Ms Bs complaint and its offer of £250 was 
unchanged. It would treat the new points shed raised about historical service as a new 
complaint. Or, in the interests of resolving Ms Bs complaints, it would make an 
additional goodwill payment of £1,250 (so £1,500 in total) to settle her original complaint 
and the additional issues shed outlined in her letter of 9 May 2021.
Ms B didnt accept that. She suggested that, in addition to the goodwill payment 
SJPWM should refund all fees shed paid to the adviser between 2013 and 2020 
(£1,636.72) and refund the annual 0.5% ongoing advice fee.
We put that to SJPWM. It said its offer was a pragmatic one to avoid further delay or 
inconvenience but, as Ms B was saying the servicing issues warranted a higher 
payment, SJPWM needed to investigate the complaint and the higher offer was 
withdrawn.We forwarded what SJPWM had said to Ms B. She asked for her complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman. We confirmed that an ombudsman would review the complaint and 
asked for any further comments.
Ms B said she did want to provide further information. We acknowledged that and asked 
that any additional information was about the concerns shed raised in this complaint and 
not about the other concerns shed more recently mentioned. In a conversation with the 
investigator on 22 July 2021 Ms B said her existing and new complaints were essentially 
the same and should be considered together. The investigator explained our position and 
said Ms B could provide additional information in one document for both complaints.
Ms B did provide further comments. Ive summarised her main points and in so far as 
they relate to this complaint.
The adviser didnt organise the tax free withdrawal or help her to understand 
her investments and options. She lost confidence and asked SJPWM to 
remove him as her adviser. She was left without the information shed asked 
for about fees, she hadnt been able to withdraw funds and she had no 
adviser and so wasnt in a position to make informed decisions about her 
financial future.
The client liaison officer had said, in the final response letter, that hed seen 
and reviewed the CFR and the suitability letter the adviser had prepared at 
the time (and which he was required to prepare). But no copy of the suitability 
letter had been provided to her and she questioned whether it actually 
existed. The unsigned CFR contained outdated information.
The adviser had presented her with a UFPLS v drawdown lump sum calculator 
but he hadnt explained the charges or that it was a generic document. The 
regulator stipulates transparency and requires advisers to explain clearly all 
fees structures. The adviser knew she didnt understand but, despite repeated 
requests, he didnt explain the charges, leaving her upset and confused. And 
hed told her she could work them out the charges for herself. The 
administration centre had questioned the accuracy of the document the 
adviser provided about fees. The adviser had admitted (in an email of 13 
November 2019) that the information he provided had caused confusion.
SJPWMs final response suggests the withdrawal process couldnt go ahead 
as she hadnt provided the necessary information in a timely manner. But the 
advisers protracted and piecemeal approach to information gathering caused 
the delays. Shed emailed on 16 October 2019 expressing unhappiness at the 
time the process was taking and the lack of professional advice provided. 
Shed written again on 3 November 2019 to say she still hadnt heard from the 
adviser and again expressing unhappiness at the delays and poor service 
delivery.
The adviser hadnt discussed her financial affairs or undertaken annual 
reviews between 2013 and 2019. So, when she wanted to access her 
pension, he wasnt aware of her personal circumstances and evolving 
financial needs.
Ms B was also dissatisfied with our investigation. In summary she said:
It was limited in scope and our investigator had failed to secure answers from 
SJPWM to several questions. She didnt understand why the investigator 
wouldnt fully consider all of her points. Or secure missing documentation, 
such as the suitability letter and an accurate CFR. His findings should be based solely on the facts and evidence, rather than choosing to fill in the gaps 
based on the balance of probabilities. He hadnt interviewed her as part of the 
investigation.
He hadnt fully considered the circumstances leading up to her complaint. 
Hed correctly identified the lack of face to face financial reviews but failed to 
consider the relevance of that and the impact on the advisers ability to know 
his client, understand her requirements and provide a bespoke financial 
advice service in line with SJPWMs covenant and the regulators 
requirements.
The adviser had admitted he was aware Ms B didnt understand the process 
of taking benefits/tax free cash and that the information he provided about 
fees was confusing.
All her complaints flowed from the advisers poor service delivery and his 
failure to organise regular reviews.
Ms B sought compensation of a minimum of £1,000 together with a refund of adviser 
fees paid during the period 2013 to 2020.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to be clear as to the scope of this complaint. Ms B initially complained about 
information about charges deducted from her pension plan. That complaint wasnt against 
SJPWM but against St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP). Ms B accepted the investigators view 
(that SJP didnt make it clear that it could only provide a standard charges summary and 
that Ms B would need to contact her adviser for the exact charges). So that complaint has 
been settled.
Ms Bs current complaint is against SJPWM. The complaint came to us as concerns about 
the way in which SJPWM had dealt with Ms Bs request to access her pension benefits in 
2019, and a lack of clarity about charges, including the proposed AAC. As Ive set out 
above, Ms B raised wider concerns about the historic service (or lack thereof) shed 
received. She didnt accept SJPWMs offer to settle the current complaint and those 
additional issues.  SJPWM wanted the opportunity to consider those issues separately. I 
understand thats now been done and a final response letter has been issued. Ms B 
remained dissatisfied and has referred that complaint to us too.
That means Ms B now has two complaints with us. I can understand why shes suggested 
that her complaints should be considered together. But the investigator has explained that 
our position is that we arent going to consider both complaints together. I agree that 
theres some overlap between Ms Bs complaints. But I dont see that they are inextricably 
linked and such that it isnt possible to consider her current complaint separately.
Ive taken into account that weve yet to start to look into the other complaint  I think its 
awaiting allocation to an investigator. Its likely be some time before an investigator can 
issue a view. So there will be a delay in reaching an outcome on this current complaint. 
And if Ms B and SJPWM accept the investigators view when issued on the other 
complaint, that case will be closed then. The resolution of the present complaint will have 
been delayed but will still then have to be decided separately from the other complaint.
I think I can fairly determine the present complaint separately from the other complaint. But 
Ive taken into account, in considering this complaint, what Ms B has said about the background and in particular that she feels the adviser was ill equipped to deal efficiently 
with her request to access her pension as he hadnt kept up to date with her 
circumstances, needs and objectives over the years by way of annual reviews. I havent 
considered Ms Bs claim for a refund of all adviser fees taken between 2013 and 2020. I 
think that claim should be considered as part of her further complaint about historical 
service levels. Im only considering here what happened in 2019.
Ive noted Ms Bs dissatisfaction with our investigation. Amongst other things shes unhappy 
that the investigator said he didnt propose to deal with each and every point Ms B had 
raised. I confirm thats consistent with our usual approach. We wont necessarily answer or 
comment on every point thats been made. Instead well focus on what we consider is 
central and relevant. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, well 
reach our findings on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what we consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
We dont formally interview complainants (or respondents). Our findings are based on the 
written documents and representations that the parties have made and what theyve told us 
about what happened. And well raise whatever further enquiries we consider are 
necessary. Here Ms B has commented in writing at length on more than one occasion. Her 
views are clearly set out in some detail. I dont think there was any apparent need for the 
investigator to do more. And I can confirm that Ive had access to all the submissions Ms B 
(and SJPWM) has made.
Turning now to the complaint, I see things a little differently to our investigator. So Im 
issuing a provisional decision to allow both parties the opportunity to comment. My views 
may change, depending on whats said in response to this provisional decision.
SJPWPs offer was made on the basis that its adviser hadnt done anything wrong, 
although SJPWM recognised it hadnt handled the complaint as efficiently has it could have 
done, causing confusion and two separate complaints. Hence SJP offered £250. But I dont 
agree that the adviser wasnt at fault. In particular I think there was delay on his part in 
dealing with Ms Bs request to access her pension benefits. And, from what Ive seen, he 
didnt provide clear information as to the fees, including the AAC (which in the end wasnt 
charged). In the circumstances, I think a higher award is justified. Ive explained my 
reasoning below.
Looking at the timeline Ms B provided (which I summarised above) it seems that her 
initial contact with the adviser about taking benefits was at the end of June 2019. During 
her telephone call on 28 June 2019, she explained her very difficult personal 
circumstances. I think the adviser initially dealt with things fairly quickly an 
recommended, over the telephone on 5 July 2019, UFPLS. But, by email on 9 July 2019, 
he revised that.
I note what Ms B says about her circumstances not having changed in the interim. But I 
dont criticise the adviser for amending his recommendation. He needed to ensure what he 
recommended best suited Ms Bs circumstances and objectives and taking into account any 
future implications. The adviser became aware of a possible issue and so changed his 
recommendation. Given the timing  the revised recommendation was only a matter of days 
later  I dont think Ms B wouldve been hugely inconvenienced. But I can see why it may 
have meant she lost some confidence or was particularly keen to ensure that she fully 
understood all options, the implications and the costs involved.
The adviser asked for some information about Ms Bs mortgage and for details of any other 
assets or liabilities and if Ms B had any other pension plans. I think that tends to show he 
was more or less starting from scratch. It doesnt seem that hed kept up to date with Ms Bs financial position over the years. He didnt, for example, have a relatively CFR that he 
could produce and ask Ms B to confirm if her position remained the same or indicate any 
changes.
But that said, Im not sure, even if he had more up to date information, the timing wouldve 
been affected. Hed still have needed to check things with Ms B although I can see that 
she would perhaps have found it less frustrating and time consuming than having to 
provide fuller details.
Im not entirely clear exactly what went on between 9 July 2019 and 31 July 2019 and 
what further steps the adviser had taken before Ms B decided (and following, according to 
SJPWM, a long telephone conversation) to pause things. I dont know exactly why Ms B 
reached that decision, although Id assume her very difficult personal circumstances may 
have played some part. But, from what Ive seen, I dont think the adviser was responsible
for Ms Bs decision or any delay up until 11 September 2019 when Ms B reverted to him 
to ask him to start the drawdown process.
But I dont think the matter was progressed efficiently thereafter. The timing wasnt ideal 
as Ms Bs request seems to have coincided with the advisers forthcoming holiday. That 
said, Im not sure if that impacted on the time scale as Ms B didnt provide the requested 
information until 20 September 2019 by which time the adviser may have returned.
Its unclear exactly what happened between then and when the adviser emailed Ms B on 
10 October 2019. I dont think taking three weeks to revert to Ms B was reasonable. And it 
seems, from the advisers email, that thered been some delay as a colleague had been 
away and so it hadnt been possible to refer the matter to the business assurance team as 
the colleague had said that Ms B needed to answer a couple of questions.
Just pausing there, and on the matter of information requests, I can understand why Ms 
B wouldve preferred everything to have been requested up front and once only. But I 
dont think its unusual, for example, if advice is being referred to a colleague for 
checking or a compliance department, for further information to be identified as required.
In his email of 10 October 2019 the adviser again offered to meet face to face. I note hed 
previously suggested by text to Ms B on 29 July 2019 a meeting. I think Ms B may have 
viewed those suggestions as somewhat insensitive, given that at the outset shed made it 
clear she wouldnt be able to meet and why. And the proposed meeting wasnt until 5 or 6 
November, so almost a month away. I think that was because the adviser was going to 
be away. But I think there is some evidence that getting to that stage had been slow. And 
that Ms B was still someway off being able to access her tax free cash.
The advisers holiday didnt fit with Ms Bs request to talk things through. I dont think her 
request was unreasonable. And she said she was prepared to talk to a colleague of the 
adviser. On 16 October 2019 (when I assume the adviser was on holiday) Ms B was told 
that the adviser would be in contact shortly. But Ms B hadnt heard further by 3 November 
2019 and had to chase things again. The adviser responded promptly the following day. But 
that meant thered been a further delay of getting on for four weeks. By the time Ms B 
accessed the advisers response (which I understand requested more information) she was 
frustrated, fed up, and had lost confidence. I can understand that.
I think there was delay on the advisers part in dealing with the transaction between 11 
September 2019 and early November 2019. I dont agree that the adviser was proactive. 
I think Ms Bs request couldve been processed more quickly and efficiently.I also note Ms Bs confusion as to fees. In the end she didnt pay the AAC charge, which I 
think is fair enough. But she says she asked for an explanation of the fees, including the 
AAC charge, more than once. From what Ive seen, no clear explanation was forthcoming. 
Its possible that the adviser discussed charges with Ms B over the telephone. SJPWM 
says there was a lengthy telephone conversation on 31 July 2019 during which Ms Bs 
options were discussed. But I cant be sure that any explanations given verbally were 
sufficiently clear. Ms B says she didnt understand and asked, more than once, for 
explanations. And it seems the adviser admits he didnt provide clear information.
That led to Ms B seeking information from the administration centred which seems, as the 
information was generic, to have caused more confusion. As Ive noted, Ms Bs request, for 
the adviser or a colleague, to talk things through with her, wasnt met. That wouldve been 
an opportunity to go through Ms Bs options and explain the exact charges that shed pay, 
depending on what route was taken and what funds were selected and which might attract 
EMCs.
Had a suitability report been prepared that wouldve (or shouldve) set out the charges 
clearly and in detail. Ms B hasnt seen any suitability report and has questioned if one 
exists. I dont think a suitability report wouldve been issued to Ms B. I say that because the 
adviser says, in his email of 9 July 2019, that hed got to the end of drafting his 
recommendation letter and then realised, if she took UFPLS, Ms Bs ability to make further 
pension contributions would be restricted. As he didnt finish his report and changed his 
recommendation anyway, I dont think that report wouldve been issued.
And I dont think he ever completed a suitability report for drawdown  he says he never 
got all the information he needed to complete that report. A suitability report can be 
prepared after the event. But I think Ms B was entitled to clear and accurate information 
about the charges shed be paying before she made any decision as to how to proceed.
Against that background I dont agree with SJPWM that its adviser did nothing wrong. The 
adviser didnt handle her request as well or as quickly as Ms B was entitled to expect. And 
there was confusion about the fees. I think that further compensation is due to reflect the 
fact that it wasnt just SJPWMs handling of Ms Bs complaint that was flawed.
As to how much compensation, I dont agree that £1,000 is appropriate. As Ive said, Im 
only looking at what happened in 2019, not any historical service issues. I think Ms B put 
forward that figure on the basis it would encompass distress and inconvenience for those 
issues too.
Ms B says, having dispensed with the advisers services and made a complaint, she was 
left unable to proceed with drawdown and having to borrow money from family members. 
Im sure that was upsetting and embarrassing for her. But I think, had she stressed the 
urgency of the situation, SJPWM wouldve offered a new adviser immediately rather than 
waiting until its final response to Ms Bs complaint was issued. It appears that Ms Bs new 
SJPWM adviser has been able to organise the tax free cash withdrawal. And Ms Bs 
relationship with her new adviser seems to have got off to a good start.
When we award compensation for non financial loss (such as distress, inconvenience, 
stress, anxiety etc) the amount will depend on the individual circumstances of the case and 
the impact of whats happened on the individual concerned. But, at the same time, we do 
aim for consistency so that we treat consumers and businesses fairly. I can understand 
why Ms B feels shes been let down by adviser and that he hasnt honoured SJPs 
commitment to her as a client and not adhered to regulatory provisions (such as knowing 
his client and providing clear information about charges). Ms Bs personal circumstances at 
the time were very difficult.But I bear in mind that SJPWM has already made what might be viewed as a very 
reasonable offer in respect of the failings it identified and which were limited to its handling 
of Ms Bs complaint.
In the circumstances I think a further £150 should be paid. Thats in recognition of the 
advisers failure to deal with Ms Bs request to access her pension promptly and 
efficiently and make clear the applicable fees should be paid. I think an overall award of 
£400 more fairly reflects the distress, upset and worry that Ms B will have suffered and 
the period over which she was affected.
SJPWM said it was prepared to accept my provisional decision. Ms B also accepted it. She 
agreed that her concerns about historical servicing issues should be dealt with separately. 
She made some further comments about that. She also asked what further action wed be 
asking SJPWM to take in respect of the advisers conduct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Well take into account the comments Ms B has made to do with the servicing issues when 
we consider her further complaint. But, aside from paying the compensation Im awarding, I 
wont be asking SJPWM to do any more in connection with Ms Bs current complaint. We 
deal with individual complaints. Where we uphold a complaint we can direct the business 
concerned to take steps, including paying compensation, aimed at putting things right. But 
we arent the regulator and we dont fine or otherwise punish businesses for any regulatory 
or other failings. 
As both parties are prepared to accept what I said earlier, my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision. For the reasons I gave, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc must pay Ms B £400 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused as a result of the poor 
service shes experienced as identified above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman