DRN-3745918
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to 
him irresponsibly.
What happened
These credit facilities offered by Drafty were not loans. Drafty offered a credit facility which
commenced with a limit being determined and then the customer was able to draw down the
amounts he or she required. The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration. Briefly,
Mr H applied for a credit facility of £1,700 in January 2017 and it was approved. In April 2017
the limit was increased to £1,900.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to
illustrate the likely cost to Mr H. On the assumption that Mr H drew down the full £1,700 on
the first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal
instalments then the total amount payable would have been around £2,284. This worked out
to be about £190 (Clause 5 in the agreement) a month.
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced
ten days before Mr Hs salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Hs
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. Using the information,
I have from Drafty, in March 2018  14 months into the facility - Mr H failed to pay a
minimum payment. The credit facility was suspended and Mr H did not contact Drafty and so
it remained suspended. Then in May 2018 Drafty issued a notice of default. The account
was terminated in May 2018 and Drafty says that the debt was sold to a third party in or
around 2019.
Mr H complained to Drafty in February 2022 and received a final response letter (FRL) in
May 2022 in which it said that it did not consider it had done anything wrong. So, it did not
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr Hs representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In August 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right and overall, she did not think that
there was anything for Drafty to put right initially.
However, in relation to that part where Drafty ought to monitor the account during Mr Hs use
of it, she considered that Drafty ought to have ceased allowing him to use the credit facility
from 27 January 2018.
Drafty agreed with our adjudicator in relation to the view and that the facility uphold date was
27 January 2018. But the proposed method by Drafty as to the way to calculate the redress -
how it puts things right for Mr H  was not the same as that proposed by our adjudicator.
Since that adjudicators view and Draftys response, Mr Hs representative has not
responded or come back to us. And so, we dont know of Mr Hs opinion on the proposed
complaint resolution.
Drafty has not agreed with our adjudicators redress calculations and so the whole complaint
remains unresolved and I have reconsidered it all.
On 16 March 2023 I chose to issue a provisional decision as, having reviewed the whole 
complaint, I did not think that Drafty had done anything wrong in relation to this account and 
I gave reasons why. That provisional decision is duplicated here for ease of reading. It is in 
smaller type to differentiate it from this final decision. 
Provisional decision dated 16 March 2023 duplicated 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility.
I need to explain to Mr H that upon first approaching Drafty in January 2017 it would not be
expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive
financial review. Mr H was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit limit granted and
the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable period of time, Drafty
was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that Mr H had enough
disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £1,700.
Having looked at all that Mr H has given me and Draftys information and submissions then
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have
considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable
and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
I say this because Mr H had told Drafty he earned £2,700 each month from his full time
employment and his expenditure was £650. Added to this was Draftys research about
Mr Hs credit history which revealed nothing with which I consider Drafty would have been
concerned.
Mr H had experienced one default 63 months beforehand and that had been for just £100.
He had one delinquent account for the same amount - £100. That was, according to the
credit results information Drafty has sent to us, seven months before Mr H had approached
Drafty for the facility, but it was such a small sum that I doubt Drafty would have considered
it a matter to precipitate further enquiries.
And so, I agree with our adjudicator in relation to the initial approval of that credit facility 
I do not uphold that part of Mr Hs complaint.
I also do not think that the limit increase to £1,900 a few months after Mr H took the account
was unreasonable.
Monitoring of the accountAfter the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to
monitor Mr Hs account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. I refer to
the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which
addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One
indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems that the
customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold was that the continual repayment of the minimum
payments each month, and him not making any significant inroads into the overall balance
due back to Drafty, ought to have prompted Drafty to have done something rather than allow
that repayment pattern to continue. And the reason Ive come to a different view about this
part of the complaint is because I think that Drafty did do that. I explain here.
I have reviewed the period leading up to 27 January 2018 and Ive decided that I do not think
that the actions taken by Mr H over a relatively short period was enough to have prompted
Drafty to have done something at that stage. Mr H had not used the facility much after he
initially drew down what he needed upon first obtaining the facility in January 2017. 
Then he repaid around £633. And after the credit limit increase in April 2017, from 27 May 2017 
Mr H used it and repaid what he needed to pay until December 2017. Then on 26 January 2018
Mr H repaid to Drafty £105 and on 27 February 2018 £147.
And I do note that a few weeks later, still only 14 months into the facility ownership, Drafty
did act swiftly when Mr H failed to pay a minimum payment. This was followed by
satisfactory account management of further suspension leading to a default a couple of
months later.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Drafty failed to monitor the account to such an extent that
Mr Hs complaint points are made out. The pattern of minimum payment followed by a small
drawdown only started around July 2017 when the account was still quite young. And for
Drafty to have a concern I think that possibly ought to have been repeating for much longer
than five months. And when the lack of payment which caused Drafty to be alert to there
being a problem arose in March 2018, then it was prompted to act.
My view is that Mr H was using the facility pretty much as Id expect a person to use an
account of this nature  using the credit and repaying what he needed to repay and he had
used it for a relatively short period from the new credit limit increase. And Drafty was
monitoring the account such that in March 2018 it acted swiftly.
Mr Hs lack of engagement with his own complaint (even though represented) has not given
me anything additional with which to counter that view. So, I am planning not to uphold the complaint.
I have given both parties time to revert to me but considering the age of this complaint, and
the opportunities afforded to Mr H in the past to send in any additional evidence, its unlikely
Ill be persuaded to extend that reply date beyond what I have fixed below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty said it would reply before 30 March 2023  which was the stipulated reply date - but 
we have not received a response. 
Mr Hs representative has not responded and we have not heard from Mr H directly either.
So, I see no reason to alter my view set out in my provisional decision which is duplicated in 
this decision. For the same reasons given there I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman