DRN-3388759
The complaint
Miss M complains Lloyds Bank PLC provided poor customer service when she attempted to 
make a payment to her credit card account.
What happened
Miss M called Lloyds on 1 March 2021 to make a complaint and to make a payment to her 
credit card account using her mothers debit card. She was told she could make a payment 
using her mothers card. The complaint was resolved but Miss M, later in the call when she 
was passed to the payments team, was told she couldnt make a payment with a card other 
than her own. Miss M complained.  
Miss M says she spent over two hours on the phone and was treated poorly. She says she is 
vulnerable, and the experience exacerbated her illness leading her to need to take unpaid 
leave from work. She also says her elderly grandfather had to travel to a branch to make a 
payment to her credit card account, which increased his risk of catching Covid. 
Lloyds considered the complaint and said the following:
- It accepted it should have made it clear from the start Miss M wouldnt be able to 
make a payment to her credit card account using her mothers card. It offered her 
£50 compensation in recognition of this and agreed to consider call costs upon 
receipt of evidence of them. 
- It didnt accept it had caused the need for Miss Ms grandfather to visit a branch as it 
had given details of alternative payment methods.
- It didnt accept its staff had treated Miss M poorly.
- The interest (about £12) which had been applied was because of Miss Ms existing 
credit card balance rather than the result of a late payment and it confirmed 
Miss Ms credit file hadnt been impacted. 
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so she asked our service for an independent review. The 
investigator concluded, in summary, that:
- Lloyds didnt need to accept a payment using a third-party debit card.
- Lloyds actions didnt lead to a need for Miss Ms grandfather to visit a branch.
- Miss M hadnt suffered a financial loss or detriment to her credit file.
- Miss M wouldve been understandably frustrated, but Lloyds hasnt done anything 
significantly wrong. 
Lloyds accepted the investigators recommendation. Miss M didnt. She remained of the 
opinion shed been treated poorly. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has had other complaints with Lloyds related to the same credit card account. They 
related to payment difficulties brought about by the pandemic. These, however, are separate 
to this complaint, so I wont be commenting on them here. If Miss M wants to our service to 
independently review those complaints, she can refer them to us. However, as the 
investigator explained, they may be deemed to have been brought too late meaning our 
service wont have the power to consider them.
Miss M wanted to make a payment to her credit card account. Its accepted she was told she 
could use her mothers debit card, but later told she couldnt. I can understand her 
frustration. But Lloyds is entitled to set its own policies for how it accepts payments, and its 
policy is it wont accept payments from cards belonging to anyone other than the account 
holder. Im not persuaded its an inherently unfair or unreasonable policy and Im satisfied 
£50 compensation fairly reflects the impact the misinformation had on Miss M given it was 
misinformation which whilst annoying, didnt make a material difference to her position.
Having listened to some of the calls Miss M had with Lloyds, I know Miss M was keen to pay 
off her credit card balance in full by the due date, 4 March 2021, to avoid interest and an 
adverse impact to her credit file. This seems to have brought urgency to the matter. But Im 
not persuaded this led, directly, to the need for Miss Ms grandfather to visit a branch. I say 
this because there were alternative payment methods and ultimately a personal choice 
needed to me made.
Ive thought about the customer service Miss M received. Long calls can be annoying, and I 
accept Miss M was on the phone to Lloyds for over two hours on 1 March 2021. But this 
appears to have been a combination of other matters to discuss, and time spent 
complaining. That, together with wait times being longer than usual because of the impact of 
the pandemic, means a two hour plus call isnt lengthy to the extent I consider it, in and of 
itself, poor service. Im also not persuaded from the calls Ive listened to and a call summary 
Lloyds staff were rude or purposefully unhelpful. 
Ive considered what loss Miss M may have suffered as a result of this matter and Im not 
persuaded there is one. Lloyds didnt apply interest which wasnt already payable, and its 
confirmed adverse information wasnt reported to the credit reference agencies. I also note 
Lloyds has offered to consider refunding Miss Ms call costs upon receipt of evidence of 
them. Miss M has said she had to take time off work. But Im not persuaded, based on the 
information available to me, I can fairly say Lloyds actions directly led to this. Dealing with 
other people, and businesses, isnt always smooth sailing and I dont think Lloyds did 
anything wrong to the extent it can be held solely responsible for Miss Ms absence from 
work.  
Overall, I acknowledge Miss Ms frustration. But for the reasons set out above, Im not 
requiring Lloyds to pay her more compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman