DRN-4071463
The complaint
Mr J complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) continues 
to send letters telling him he is in arrears on his account and denies receiving payments, 
even though payments have been made.
What happened
Mr J is represented in this complaint by his mother, Mrs J. 
Mr J has a store credit account with Argos. In 2022 Mrs J brought a complaint to Argos on 
his behalf. She said she had made payments to Mr Js account, but Argos had denied 
receiving them, despite her sending bank statements as proof. Mrs J said her sons account 
was now in arrears even though payments had been made and he was worried about his 
credit file. She also complained that she had requested authority to deal with her sons 
account three times, but it wasnt provided. She said she sent the forms by recorded 
delivery. Mrs J also complained that Argos said all charges on the account would be 
removed but they havent been and that Argos is harassing Mr J by saying its letters to him 
are being ignored which she said wasnt the case. 
In its final response letter Argos said two payments made by Mrs J had been made to a 
third-party account, P. It said although this account was known to Mrs J it had written to P to 
advise them that two payments had been applied to their account incorrectly. It said it could 
not be held responsible for any costs incurred when sending copied bank statements as 
there had been no business error. It removed the arrears from Mr J's account whilst it was 
waiting for a response from Mr J and his representative. It issued a further letter authority for 
Mr J to complete.
Mrs J wasn't satisfied and brought her complaint to the service. She asked for the adverse 
credit marker to be removed, the account reinstated, removal of arrears charges and a 
refund of money spent on recorded delivery. 
In response to our investigation Argos said that the payment in November had been 
recalled. It said the payments in December were both posted to the wrong account. It said 
the payments were made by a debit card. As such the customer had to enter the Argos card 
number and verify the account by providing their date of birth. It said this means that Ps 
details mustve been provided in order for the payments to end up in Ps account.  It was 
satisfied no error had been made as it said its the customers responsibility to ensure the 
details are correct before making a payment. 
Argos did accept however that after reviewing Mr J's account there had been one instance 
where Mr J had failed to make payment towards his account, this being the payment due by 
9 February 2022. Due to this Argos said it didn't believe it fair that the credit facility was 
withdrawn or that a default was registered so it took steps to correct this and the account 
was reinstated. It offered £50 in compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Mrs J wasnt satisfied and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She made some 
further comments which I have responded to below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has expressed some concern about the impartiality of this service. So I would first like 
to reassure her that my role is independent. I must look at all the available evidence afresh 
from both parties and come to a decision based on what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Having done so I dont believe Argos has made an error when handling the payments and 
Im satisfied that its proposed compensation of £50 is fair in the circumstances. 
In its correspondence to this service Argos said: 
It issued a statement to Mr J on 11 December 2021 which advised he had a 
minimum payment of £33.89 due on the account by 9 January 2022. This payment 
wasnt received, and the account fell into arrears on the statement dated 11 January 
2022. This statement requested an immediate payment of £33.89 with a further 
minimum payment of £45.64 due on 9 February 2022. 
It was contacted on 19 January 2022 and informed a payment of £50 had been paid 
towards the account on 31 December 2021. Argos said the account was then 
referred to its missing payments team for review. This team discovered that the 
payment of £50 had been posted to a third-party account, P, known to Mrs J. It said 
contact was attempted with P to gain consent to move the payment to Mr J's 
account.
A final response letter was sent to Mr J in which it advised that the payment had 
been made towards a different account and the arrears were removed from the 
account to allow time for Mr J and P to get in touch to resolve the payment issue.
The payment of £50 was made as a debit card payment through its automated 
payment line. When making payments by this method the customer is required to 
enter the Argos card number and verify the account by providing the date of birth; 
meaning the details of P must have been provided when the payment was made.
It didn't agree that an error had been made by Argos when posting the payment to 
the account or in charging a late payment fee.
Ive seen copies of internal notes and emails from Argos which confirm the payments went to 
Ps account. Unfortunately it was Mr Js responsibility to ensure that the account details were 
correct when the payment was made. So Im satisfied no error has occurred and the late 
payment fee was applied appropriately.
Argos went on to say:
While the account was updated as advised and Mr J met the minimum payment of 
£10.71 before 9 March 2022, the statement issued on 11 March 2022 again reflected 
the account as in arrears. This was because the payment of £50.00 made on 19 
November 2021 had been recalled by the bank; despite this payment never being in 
dispute, meaning the payment for November was unpaid. 
Due to the level of arrears on the account the credit facility was withdrawn, and a 
default was applied to Mr J's credit file on 8 April 2022. This was because Mr J failed 
to make a payment in January and February, and the November payment was recalled, so the account would have reflected three months due, triggering the default 
notice. 
After reviewing Mr J's account, excluding the payment due for 9 January 2022 as the 
payment of £50 on 31 December 2021 would have covered this, there has been one 
instance where Mr J has failed to make payment towards his account, this being the 
payment due by 9 February 2022. Due to this Argos said it didn't believe it fair that 
the credit facility was withdrawn or that a default was registered so it took steps to 
correct this, and the account has been reinstated.
Although the account has been reinstated Mr J remains suspended from purchasing 
as the account is in persistent debt and he has failed to discuss this with Argos. It 
said depending on the repayment option he chooses the suspension may or may not 
be lifted. 
Mrs J has said the credit file hasnt been amended. Argos provided a copy of the information 
recorded on Mr Js credit file which shows that the amendments were completed, and Im 
satisfied they were. Regarding the suspension of Mr Js account, financial businesses are 
required to act responsibly when consumers are in persistent debt, and it would be wise for 
Mr J to make contact with Argos to discuss his options. 
With regards to the other elements of Mr Js complaint Argos said:
Argos can't be held responsible for the failings of postal service. It said its records 
show that a letter of authority was received into the business on 11 April 2022 and 
was referred to the relevant team for the account to be updated. The nominated third-
party authorisation was added to the account on 20 April 2022.
There doesnt appear to be a record of the first letter of authority Mrs J sent. Im not 
disputing she sent it but without any evidence it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Argos 
accountable for the letter going missing. Looking at the address Mrs J used for the second 
letter, it appears this isnt the correct address for the Argos card services. Argos did 
eventually receive a letter of authority and Im satisfied this has been noted on the account. 
Mrs J said she was told by Argos that all charges would be removed from Mr Js account. 
Argos provided account notes and I cant see any agreement to remove any fees. Mrs J said 
she provided emails confirming this. Mrs J has provided several emails which Ive read but I 
cant see any agreement from Argos to remove fees. 
Putting things right
After the complaint came to this service Argos said that although the initial payment error 
wasnt because of business error, by way of an apology for any distress or inconvenience 
caused it has offered Mr J £50. I think this is fair and reasonable and what I would expect in 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Home Retail Group Card Services should pay Mr J £50.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Maxine SuttonOmbudsman