DRN-3967062
The complaint
Miss B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly lent to her 
when she took out a finance agreement with them.
What happened
Miss B took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in May 2020 to acquire a used 
car. The term of the agreement was 60 months; the total amount payable was £22,950.93, 
which included an advance payment of £1,400, a loan amount of £11,638, and interest 
charges of £9,912.93; the monthly repayments were £365.27; and the cost price of the car 
acquired was £13,038.
Miss B believed Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to her as she had bad credit at the time and 
defaults on her credit file. She also believed the amount lent to her was unaffordable. Since 
taking out the agreement with Moneybarn, she said she has been in financial difficulty.
Miss B complained to Moneybarn in February 2022 and, among other things, wanted all her 
interest she had paid refunded back to her, along with any interest that is remaining to also 
be waived. Moneybarn gave their final response to her in March 2022.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint and they explained that as part of their 
application process, they performed several different checks on which they based their 
decision to offer Miss B credit. This included, among other things, a credit search, 
independently verifying Miss Bs stated monthly income, and also assessing her ongoing 
monthly borrowing commitments at the time the application was made. At the time, they said 
they concluded Miss Bs borrowing levels were within their lending criteria. They said they 
noticed Miss B had previously defaulted on some other borrowing, but this was around 
almost four years prior to the application and they could see Miss B was making 
contributions to paying back the outstanding amount. They also said that Miss B agreed to 
her net monthly income not being less than £1,845.95 and her total non-discretionary 
monthly expenditure not exceeding £595.80 when she signed the agreement. So, in 
summary, Moneybarn couldnt agree that they were irresponsible in their decision to enter 
into this finance agreement with Miss B.
Miss B, unhappy with Moneybarns response, referred her complaint to our service. She 
believed her salary at the time to be around £1,622 per month  so less than the net monthly 
income of £1,845 Moneybarn used. Miss B also provided bank statements for the months 
preceding applying for the credit and she believed it showed that her monthly expenditure 
exceeded the non-discretionary monthly expenditure figure of £595.80 Moneybarn used. 
She also said that the payslips Moneybarn had relied on were not an accurate reflection of 
her income as she had recently started a job with a new employer and there were some 
inconsistencies in her pay during her initial months there.
Moneybarn provided copies of documents and information they had relied on to reach their 
outcome. Among the documents provided was Miss Bs payslip for March 2020 which 
showed her net pay for that month to be £2,138.27.
Our investigator found that Moneybarn didnt need to do anything further. He explained that 
he looked into whether Moneybarn completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way. He 
concluded that Miss Bs credit file ought to have indicated to Moneybarn that Miss B was 
overly reliant on borrowing and that further borrowing may not have been sustainable. So, he 
thought it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Miss Bs financial circumstances before lending to her.
Our investigator then went on to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have shown that Miss B would have been able to repay the agreement in a 
sustainable way. He considered what Miss B had told him, including reviewing the bank 
statements provided and he found that it was likely Miss B had the disposable income to be 
able to sustainably make the required payments for the duration of the term. So, he didnt 
think Moneybarn ought to have reasonably discovered that the agreement would likely have 
been unaffordable for Miss B and so he wasnt persuaded they had made an unfair lending 
decision to her.
Miss B disagreed with the investigators findings and requested it to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
At the end of February 2023, Miss B said that she would like to provide further evidence to 
support her complaint  specifically, information from the brokers who arranged the car 
finance. She said the brokers would take up to 30 days to send the information she required. 
As of the end of April 2023, Miss B still had not provided that additional information, despite 
giving her further extensions to provide it. 
And so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Moneybarn needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry 
out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B could afford to repay the amount it was 
lending. A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not 
limited to  Miss Bs particular circumstances (e.g. her financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost 
of credit obtained.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Miss Bs case.
In this case, Moneybarn lent to Miss B in 2020 and they say it agreed to Miss Bs application 
after carrying out a credit search and taking some income and expenditure information. They 
also say in their final response to Miss B that they used statistical data to estimate the level 
of Miss Bs non-discretionary expenditure. On the other hand, Miss B says the information 
Moneybarn relied on wasnt accurate and should have seen she had bad credit at the time.
Were reasonable and proportionate checks completed?
The loan was taken out to acquire a car. While Moneybarn hasnt been able to provide a 
copy of a credit search completed, they have provided a reference number to show a search 
had been completed by them. They also provided details of what they believed to be Miss 
Bs declared income and expenditure for her application, as they said Miss B agreed to it 
when she signed her agreement. They also said they relied on this when deciding to 
approve the credit.
I have seen a copy of Miss Bs credit file. Within it, I can see Miss B defaulted on two 
accounts with a third-party. Once in 2017, a few years prior to taking out credit with 
Moneybarn. And several years prior in 2013, Miss B defaulted on an account.
Thinking about things here, I think Miss Bs credit file should have alerted Moneybarn to 
carry out further checks on her, due to the relatively recent default recorded on her file. I 
accept Miss B may have been making contributions to paying back the amount owed on her 
defaulted account. But given the adverse information that would have been appearing on her 
file, I cant fairly conclude reasonable and proportionate checks were completed at the time 
this loan was approved, even if payments were being made to the defaulted account.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss B could repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way?
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks might have uncovered 
and whether it would have shown that Miss B wouldnt have been able to repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way. Among other things, Ive relied on bank statements Miss B 
has provided.
Moneybarn recorded Miss Bs net monthly income as £1,845, although it had a payslip of 
Miss Bs which shown her monthly income for March 2020 to be around £2,140. Bank 
statements provided by Miss B around the months the credit was taken out with Moneybarn 
show her net income as around £1,650 in April 2020 and around £1,622 in May 2020. The 
average net monthly income Miss B received for those specific three months was around 
£1,800.
Miss B also provided some details on her non-discretionary outgoings in the preceding 
months. She explained that rent and utilities were being paid directly by her sibling who she 
was living with. But she provided screenshots of her statements, where she transferred 
money fairly frequently for these payments to her sibling. In March 2020, Miss B shown her 
household bills to come to around £435 for March 2020, around £330 for April 2020 and 
around £435 for May 2020. Her average share for the household bills for those specific 
months was around £400 per month.When reviewing her bank statements, her monthly food outgoings were significantly different 
month on month  and varied between spending at supermarkets and at fast food outlets. In 
March 2020, for example, her spending at supermarkets was around £100, but in April and 
May 2020, it was around £450 per month.
Miss Bs discretionary outgoings were also significantly different month on month. In March 
2020, her statements appeared to show spending of around £90. But in April 2020, there 
was discretionary spending of over £800. Large spending on her account seemed to 
coincide with similar transfers of money into her account from individuals.
I have also noted Miss B made a regular monthly payment of around £120 to a credit card 
company. In addition, from her bank statements, it appears that Miss B was frequently using 
an overdraft facility she held on one of her accounts. The monthly fees for this overdraft 
facility were fairly minimal.
Miss B has also provided a statement which shows that she received around £2,800 in total 
in two separate student loan disbursements in April 2020. I havent considered or relied on 
this in my findings as these payments into her account were likely accounted for in her 
outgoings.
Taking everything into account here, I dont think there was anything in Miss Bs transactions 
which contradicted the income figure Moneybarn used as it was broadly similar. While the 
expenditure figure Moneybarn used was lower than her actual expenditure at the time, given 
the monthly repayment amount of the loan being around £365; Miss Bs net monthly income 
being roughly £1,800; and non-discretionary spending generally being around £1,000 per 
month in total, I think it was fair to conclude the repayments looked like they should have 
been affordable for Miss B.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonable in some other way?
Ive also looked at whether Moneybarn was aware or ought to reasonably have been aware, 
that Miss B could be in financial difficulties by reviewing her use of her account. And if so, 
whether it was appropriate for Moneybarn to apply any interest, fees and charges.
Once a lender is aware a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
Moneybarn must also monitor their customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
I can see from internal notes Moneybarn provided that Miss B made them aware of her 
difficulty to repay some monthly instalments. Im sorry Miss B found herself in financial 
difficulty. I accept at times Miss B may have had difficulty repaying in some months. 
However, Ive noted at times that Moneybarn gave Miss B repayment holidays to help 
support her get back on track and to give some breathing space. Im satisfied Moneybarn did 
enough here once they were aware Miss B had financial difficulties.
Furthermore, I can see from internal system notes Moneybarn provided that Miss B told 
them she lost her job in June 2020 due to the pandemic. So, it is likely the real reason for 
Miss Bs inability to make her repayments to this agreement was Miss B being unable to 
work as a result of the pandemic. I dont think anyone could have foreseen the effect that the 
pandemic would have and therefore I cant reasonably say that Moneybarn ought to have 
realised that this would have impacted on Miss Bs finances in the way that it did.In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think they had. I accept reasonable and 
proportionate checks may not have been completed by Moneybarn in relation to the loan 
taken out. But Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt 
have stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. Im 
also satisfied Moneybarn responded to Miss B with forbearance and due consideration once 
it was aware that she was in financial difficulty.
I appreciate my outcome will be very disappointing for Miss B, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision and that shell at least 
feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman