DRN-2790231
The complaint
 Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited was misrepresented.
What happened
 On 1 August 2020, Miss S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. Miss S paid a £3,124.81 deposit and the agreement was for £4,374.19 
over 60 months. This agreement was repaid in full on 6 August 2020.
Miss S says that, because she uses her car for work purposes, she wanted a car with the 
Android Auto/Apple CarPlay feature so she could receive emails and text messages while 
driving and have these read out to her. And she says she chose this particular car because 
the supplying dealership told her that it had CarPlay.
Miss S contacted the dealership on 5 August 2020 because she was having problems 
connecting her phone to the CarPlay. And the dealership agreed to look into this for her. The 
following day, believing the dealership would fix the issue, Miss S cleared the finance in full.
But the dealership wasnt able to sort out the issue and, on 6 September 2020, the cars 
manufacturer confirmed that the entertainment system fitted to the car didnt have CarPlay, 
and that this couldnt be retrofitted with manufacturer approved parts. So, on 7 September 
2020, Miss S complained to Black Horse, asking to reject the car.
Miss S complained the sale had been misrepresented  shed only brought that particular 
car because she was told it had CarPlay. And, if she knew it didnt, shed have chosen a 
different car that did. But Black Horse said Miss S shouldve checked to ensure CarPlay was 
present before she signed to accept the car, and that she signed to say the car had been 
checked and was suitable for her needs. So they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss S wasnt happy with Black Horses response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation. She also part-exchanged the car for one she says had CarPlay fitted.
Our investigator said CarPlay wasnt installed in the car Miss S was supplied with. And he 
thought that Miss Ss actions, and the actions of the dealership in trying to resolve the issue, 
meant it was more likely than not that Miss S had been told at the point of sale that CarPlay 
was present. So he thought the car had been misrepresented to Miss S.
He didnt think it was reasonable for Black Horse to rely on the declaration Miss S had 
signed saying she was happy with the condition of the car and the features present  Miss S 
had the opportunity to take the car for a 10-minute test drive, and to examine the car, but he 
didnt think it was reasonable for her to have been expected to go through the often lengthy 
process of syncing her phone to the media system, downloading the correct app and 
potentially signing up to a specific service just to test a feature shed been told by the sales 
assistant was definitely present.
The investigator said that Miss S had part-exchanged the car for less than shes paid for it, 
after using it for around six months. But Black Horse had no control over the part-exchange 
valuation agreed, so he didnt think they should be expected to pay Miss S any loss in value.
He also said that, while Miss S didnt have the feature to read out emails and text messages 
she wanted, the entertainment system fitted had satellite navigation and Bluetooth 
connectivity, allowing her to use all the other features of her phone. So he thought that Black 
Horse should pay Miss S £150 for the loss of the read aloud feature, and for the trouble and 
upset the misrepresentation had caused.
While Black Horse didnt agree thered been any misrepresentation, they agreed to pay the 
recommended £150. But Miss S didnt agree with the investigator and she thinks she should 
be compensated for the loss in value on part-exchange. She also said shed been told there 
wouldnt be any detriment if she part-exchanged the car while her complaint was ongoing. 
And she thinks that, had she still had the car, she wouldve been allowed to reject it and 
received all of her money back. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Miss S to choose the car.
Miss S said the sales assistant told her the car was fitted with CarPlay. The dealership said 
they dont have adverts for specific cars, but all the information about their cars was 
available on the sales assistants tablet. And this would include any extras like CarPlay. As 
the sales assistant no longer works for the dealership, its not been possible to ask them 
what they said they told Miss S. Because of this, Im going to have to consider what I think 
was most likely to have happened, given the circumstances.
Miss S complained a few days after taking possession of the car that she couldnt connect 
her phone to CarPlay. If the dealership knew CarPlay wasnt fitted and/or if the sales 
assistant had told Miss S that the car didnt have CarPlay; then Id expect them to have told 
her this (again) at that point. But the dealership didnt do this. Instead, according to their 
email of 20 September 2020, they asked Miss S to bring the car in for inspection. And, after 
inspecting the car, they advised her to take it to a main dealer for them to inspect further and 
to see if Miss Ss phone was compatible.
Because of this, Im satisfied that, at the point of sale, the dealership believed that CarPlay 
was fitted on the car. So Its more likely than not that Miss S was told this was a feature 
when she asked about it at the point of sale. Because of this, Im also satisfied there was a 
false statement of fact. Miss S signed a declaration with the dealership on 30 July 2020 which said I have also 
been given the opportunity to inspect the vehicle (interior and exterior) and from my own 
observations and testing (e.g. checking Bluetooth / satellite navigation function etc.) I am 
confident the vehicle specification is suitable and equipped for my particular requirements.
However, in an email dated 14 January 2021, the dealership said that things such as 
CarPlay wouldnt be a standard feature of the car. The email went on to give an example of 
a similar system from a different manufacturer, and that this has to be set up by the 
manufacturer direct. So, in circumstances like this, it wouldnt be possible for a customer to 
check a CarPlay system was present and working while at the dealership.
Miss S has said that she wasnt able to test the entertainment system during the test drive, 
because of COVID restrictions. Whether or not this was the case, given that the dealership 
have said that this type of system may need to be set up by a main dealer, I agree it wasnt 
reasonable for Miss S to go through the process of checking the CarPlay was installed and 
working at the point she agreed to buy the car  there are certain things its reasonable to 
expect consumers to take at face value in circumstances like this. And being told that a 
specific feature was present on the entertainment system is one of these. 
So I agree that the declaration she signed doesnt absolve Black Horse or the dealership of 
any responsibility. And Miss Ss actions in both complaining about the lack of CarPlay, and 
then part-exchanging the car for one that had CarPlay, shows me this was an important 
feature for her. So Im satisfied that the false statement of fact induced Miss S to purchase 
this particular car, and that misrepresentation has taken place.
Given this, Im satisfied that Black Horse should do something to put this.
Ive also considered that Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), and whether the missing 
CarPlay made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied. The CRA says, amongst 
other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it 
wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Black Horse are responsible. Whats satisfactory is 
determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given 
the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
While I appreciate that CarPlay was important to Miss S, the lack of it didnt cause any other 
faults or issues with the car. And the entertainment system, in all other respects, worked fine 
and without problems. Because of this, I dont think the lack of CarPlay also made the car of 
an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Putting things right
 Miss S repaid the finance with Black Horse six days after having the car. Because the car 
no longer belonged to Black Horse, and because it wasnt of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied; had the car still been in Miss Ss possession, I wouldnt be asking Black Horse to 
take it back and refund all the money Miss S paid for it. Instead Id be asking them to fairly 
compensate her for the lack of CarPlay. Which is what I still expect them to do.
It wasnt possible for the car to be retrofitted with a manufacturer approved entertainment 
system that had CarPlay, but this doesnt necessarily mean that a non-manufacturer 
entertainment system with CarPlay couldnt have been fitted. And I consider the difference in 
the value of the car with and without this very specific feature on the entertainment system 
would be negligible  Miss S wouldnt have paid any less for the car if it was known it didnt 
have CarPlay. So Id expect Black Horse to pay Miss S some compensation for the 
inconvenience of not having CarPlay. I think the £150 recommended by the investigator is 
fair in the circumstances and Ill be asking Black Horse to pay this.Turning to what Miss S received on part-exchanging her car, this was £2,557 lower than she 
paid for it. There are a number of factors that determine a part-exchange value, including 
age, mileage and the value of the car being purchased. And part exchange values tend to be 
lower than both private sale and forecourt values.
Miss S was part-exchanging a car that was older, and had done more miles, than when she 
purchased it for £7,499. So its value wouldve decreased at the point of the part-exchange. 
Ive also seen that Miss S and her partner were part-exchanging two cars for a car valued at 
£10,796. In doing so, she accepted a price of £4,942 for her car. 
Black Horse werent asked about this value, nor were they given an opportunity to argue that 
it shouldve been higher because of the price Miss S had paid for the car some months 
earlier. Instead Miss S agreed to the part-exchange value, and if she wasnt happy with it at 
the time, she couldve, for example, arranged to sell her car privately.
So, for these reasons, I wont be asking Black Horse to compensate Miss S for any loss on 
value on part-exchange.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ss complaint. Black Horse Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman