DRN-4082953
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Revolut Ltd refused to refund the money he lost after falling victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr S received a text from, what appeared to be, the NHS about covid-19 
contact tracing which asked him to get tested. He clicked a link to buy a test and, as part of 
that process, provided various personal details as well as some payment card details. Soon 
after, Mr S received a phone call from someone who said they worked for a foreign 
exchange fintech company with which Mr S held an account. 
This individual, who turned out to be a scammer, persuaded Mr S that the NHS link hed 
clicked on was fake and this had enabled hackers to get access to his mobile phone and all 
of the banking apps on it. Mr S disclosed which banking apps he held and the individual said 
he would liaise with all of the other account providers. Several phones calls then took place 
with both this individual and another who claimed to work for one of the other banks with 
which Mr S held an account. 
The scammers persuaded Mr S to move money between the various accounts he held and 
he ended up losing a total of £38,000 in two payments made from his Revolut account to the 
scammer. Mr S realised hes been scammed when the transfers hed made failed to turn up 
in his bank account in the way that the scammer had described. So he reported the matter to 
Revolut.
Revolut refused to reimburse any of Mr Ss losses. It says it took steps to block the two 
payments and gave scam warnings to Mr S, but he ignored them. It contacted the receiving 
bank but was only able to recover £293.83, which was returned to Mr Ss account.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why I thought Revolut should 
refund all the money Mr S had lost to the scam. I have reproduced my provisional findings 
below:
Revolut has referred to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code in some of its correspondence. But the Code doesnt apply in this case as Revolut isnt 
signed up to it.
Its not in dispute that Mr S instigated the transfers in and out of his Revolut account. So, 
although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for 
his loss in the first instance. 
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for an 
electronic money institution like Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a payment instruction is sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic given the usual use of the account. In such circumstances Id 
expect Revolut to intervene and ask more questions about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect Revolut to provide suitable warnings about common scams to 
help its customers make an informed decision about whether they want to continue with the 
payment. 
Following the investigators intervention, Revolut has accepted it should have done more 
than it did when Mr S made these two payments and that better intervention would have 
prevented Mr Ss losses. I agree, so all that remains is for me to consider whether its fair to 
make a deduction from the refund in the way the investigator proposed.
This has been a somewhat difficult case to decide because I do think there were some 
warnings signs that Mr S could have spotted. This includes one of the warnings Revolut 
displayed as part of the payment journey which mirrored the situation Mr S found himself in. 
It said there was a high probability he could be falling victim to a scam and that Revolut and 
other banks will NEVER tell you to move your money into a new safe account. But, given 
everything that was going on I can understand, in this particular case, why Mr S moved past 
this warning and complied with the scammers instructions. I note, in particular, that:
Mr S was called by two different scammers who claimed they were from two different 
financial businesses. Both of whom managed to spoof the genuine businesses phone 
numbers. I can see how this helped convince Mr S that the scammers were genuinely 
trying to help protect his money. The scammers confidence, reassurance and familiarity 
with the payment processes for each of Mr Ss banks, along with the provision of an FCA 
investigation reference further helped to build Mr Ss trust.
The scammers persuaded Mr S to send the money using Revoluts payment link facility. 
Using this function meant he didnt have to enter any receiving bank account details, so 
he didnt go through the confirmation of payee process. The scammers used those 
payment links to draw the money to accounts that were, presumably, under its control 
and which were not held in Mr Ss name. But the confirmation emails Mr S received from 
Revolut suggested the money had been sent to himself  his name was showing in the 
to field. I can understand why receiving such a confirmation would have reinforced his 
belief in the lie the scammers were telling him  that the money was being sent to a 
safe account in his name. I also note that Mr S tells us hed never previously used this 
facility so wasnt familiar with the process. Nor did the scammers seemingly give him 
time to review any of Revoluts guidance about the process and/or the relative risks of 
using this payment method.
The scammers persuaded Mr S to send the payment link details to 
Revolut@yopmail.com and, as Ive already noted, some warnings were shown to Mr S. I 
can see why the investigator thought that these things should have raised some alarm 
bells. But the scammers seems to have been encouraging Mr S to act quickly to protect 
this money and the urgency of prompt action was accompanied by warnings that hackers 
were constantly trying to get to his funds. This, undoubtedly caused, Mr S some degree 
of distress and that may well have affected his ability to think as clearly in the moment as 
he would have in other, less stressful situations. And he explains this is also why he 
didnt read or take heed of the warnings Revolut presented. He thought he was speaking 
with two genuine, experienced bank employees who were coordinating with all of his 
other banks and so was being entirely guided by them. Overall, in this particular case, I 
can see why Mr S didnt pause or insist on trying to verify anything the scammers were 
telling him. 
With all of the above in mind, I currently think Revolut should cover all of Mr Ss remaining 
losses.Both parties accepted my provisional findings and made no additional submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision
and reproduced above.
Putting things right
Mr S paid away a total of £38,000 and Revolut was only able to recover £293.83 from the 
receiving bank, which I understand has already been returned to Mr S. 
The money Mr S lost originated in accounts held with other banks and Im satisfied, if Mr S 
hadnt fallen victim to those scams, that the money would have remained in those accounts. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the money would otherwise have been spent and/or that Mr S 
has, personally been deprived of the use of it. I say the latter with the understanding that at 
least some of the money came from a business account for a limited company (of which 
Mr S is one of the two directors). 
So I think Revolut Ltd should:
Refund the remaining £37,706.17.
Pay interest on the above sum calculated at the interest rate applicable to the accounts 
where the money originated. This should be paid from the date the money left Mr Ss 
Revolut account to the date settlement is made. Mr S will likely need to provide evidence 
to show what interest rate, if any, was paid on those accounts. However, if those 
accounts were not interest-bearing, then no interest will need to be paid. 
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest award, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I instruct Revolut Ltd to settle the matter 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
If Mr S accepts this decision then Revolut should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mr Ss acceptance.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman