DRN-4281464
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr Gs representative 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr G could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr G with a loan for £250 in July 2019. It had an APR of 1,013.2% and was to 
due be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £57.14, which meant the total amount to be 
repaid was £1,028.52. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Gs application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr G. The information Mr G provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
But it, in any event, adjusted Mr Gs declarations to account for what its verification checks 
showed and and this left enough for Mr G to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr Gs representative 
has said Mr G shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Mr Gs first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr G was 
asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it 
was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing too much in 
the way of recent payment difficulties (there were two historic defaults), Mr Gs lack of any 
previous lending with L2G and the low monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for L2G to rely on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to 
be. 
I accept that its possible Mr Gs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
gathered. I know that Mr G has provided a copy of an alternative credit search and copies of 
bank statements which show that his financial position was worse than hed let on. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr G - it carried out reasonable checks even though the information it 
was provided with did not tell the whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved 
and its lack of previous history with Mr G, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to 
provide this loan. 
Furthermore, I dont think the fact that Mr G may have been able to borrow from alternative 
sources in itself means that further checks should have been carried out, in the way that    
Mr Gs representative has suggested either.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman