DRN-3853416
The complaint
Mr W complains about Amtrust Europe Limited (AEL) and their decision to decline the claim 
he made on the Home Assistance (HA) cover included within his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a home insurance policy with an intermediary, who Ill refer to as B. This 
insurance policy included additional HA cover, which was underwritten by AEL. This HA 
cover was separate to Mr Ws overall home insurance, which was underwritten by a 
separate insurer altogether, who Ill refer to as X.
On 14 February 2022, Mr W noticed that his roof had been damaged due to a storm in his 
area. So, he contacted B to make a claim specifically on his HA cover as this cover required 
no payment of an excess or would be marked down as a claim on his overall home 
insurance policy.
But this claim was rejected, with Mr W being made aware that there was an exclusion for 
any claim made that would be covered by another policy. As Mr Ws claim would be covered 
by his home insurance policy underwritten by X, Mr W was told his claim on his HA cover fell 
under this exclusion. Mr W was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr W didnt think it was fair for his claim to be declined based on the exclusion quoted. He 
explained his belief that the policy wording was ambiguous and unclear. And because of 
this, he thought he should be reimbursed the £250 hed paid to a contractor separately to 
complete a permanent repair to his roof. 
B responded to Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. While they took on board Mr Ws 
comments about the clarity of the policy wording, they thought the claim fell under the 
exclusion and so, they thought the decision to decline the claim was a fair one. Mr W 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that Mr W 
wouldve been able to claim for the repairs on his home insurance policy. So, they were 
satisfied the claim made on his HA cover fell under the exclusion used and because of this, 
they didnt think Mr W had been treated unfairly. While they appreciated Mr W had incurred 
costs to repair the roof, they felt it was Mr Ws decision to incur these, rather than claiming 
through his home insurance policy. So, they didnt think Mr Ws costs needed to be 
reimbursed.
Mr W didnt agree. And he reaffirmed his belief that the terms were unclear and ambiguous. 
And he didnt think this aspect of his complaint had been addressed. As Mr W remained 
unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
While the complaint has been awaiting a decision, it was noted that AEL were the insurer 
responsible for the HA cover, and that they were the party responsible for responding to Mr 
Ws complaint about the claim decline. AEL confirmed they were happy for the complaint to 
proceed to a decision, based on the complaint responses and our investigators initial view, 
with no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I understand why Mr W 
wanted to utilise his HA policy rather than his home insurance policy, as this policy contained 
no excess and didnt record as a claim on his home insurance policy overall. And I dont 
think its in dispute that Mr W wasnt fully aware that there was an exclusion that would 
prevent him taking up this option. So, when the claim on his HA cover was declined, I can 
understand Mr Ws initial confusion and frustration. And I appreciate why Mr W would 
question the clarity of the exclusion being relied upon, as he didnt fully understand the 
consequences of it when he initially took out the policy.
But for me to say AEL should reimburse Mr W the £250 hes had to pay to an independent 
contractor to repair his roof, I first need to be satisfied AEL have done something wrong. So, 
Id need to be satisfied that the decline of Mr Ws claim fell outside of the terms and 
conditions of the policy he held. Or, if I think it did fall within these, that AEL acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the additional HA policy Mr W held, which are 
contained within his home insurance policy documentation. And under section What is not 
insured by this policy the terms state A claim covered by another policy, or any claim that 
would have been covered by any other policy if this policy did not exist.
It's not in dispute that Mr W was able to make a claim for the repair to his roof under his 
home insurance policy provided by X. Mr W himself recognises he had this option but 
proactively wanted to use his HA cover instead. So, Im satisfied Mr Ws claim for the roof 
repair was covered by another policy, and it wouldve been covered by another policy if this 
did not exist. So, I dont think I can say AEL have done anything wrong when relying on this 
term to decline the claim, and I think they acted within the terms and conditions of the policy 
when doing so.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether AEL have acted unfairly in 
some other way. Mr W has expressed his belief that the terms and conditions were unclear 
and ambiguous. And because of this, he doesnt think AEL were fair to rely upon them. 
But I think the terms and conditions of the HA policy are reasonably clear in explaining a 
claim that could be covered under another policy wouldnt be covered. And I think Mr W was 
aware he has a separate policy, as he was aware making a claim on the HA policy wouldnt 
require an excess, or record as a claim on his overall home insurance policy provided by X. 
So, I dont think I can say the terms were unfair, or unclear. And so, I havent seen any 
evidence that satisfies me AEL have acted unfairly in any other way when declining the 
claim. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct AEL to cover the costs of 
the repair work Mr W authorised independently and so, I dont think AEL need to do anything 
more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I appreciate it leaves Mr W at a financial loss, which I dont doubt will be upsetting. But I think its important to note it was 
Mr Ws own decision to pursue a repair independently, which was for a greater value than 
the excess applicable on his home insurance policy with X. While I understand Mr Ws 
reasoning for this, I dont think this means AEL should be expected to cover the difference in 
cost this decision had on Mr W. I think its also worth noting that Mr Ws HA policy wouldve 
been for a temporary repair only, to ensure his home was prevented from any ingress of 
water. The policy is not designed to complete permanent repairs. So, I dont think Mr Ws HA 
policy wouldve provided Mr W with the permanent repairs hes since had completed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman