DRN-3579960
The complaint
Miss O complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) removed their interest in a car 
she had been financing through an agreement with them after it had been involved in a 
crash and was deemed uneconomical to repair. Shes also unhappy as she says Black 
Horse misadvised her and that they also promised to pay for the recovery of the car but 
havent. She says the business communication with her was poor; they didnt communicate 
by her preferred method, and they sent letters to the wrong address.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have already been set out in 
detail by our investigator. So, I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to hear about the difficult situation Miss O found herself in and I know it will 
disappoint her but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss O acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the agreement required Miss O to insure the car comprehensively, but she 
didnt do that. So, when the car was involved in a collision and evidence showed a repair 
was uneconomical the cost to repair the car or settle the agreement fell to her. I dont think 
Black Horse were unreasonable to remove their interest in the vehicle as it was 
uneconomical to repair. 
The options they provided to Miss O on the calls she had with them in October and 
November 2021 were reasonable too. They explained she could leave the car with them and 
theyd repair and sell it, holding her accountable for the balance on the agreement that she 
could pay through a payment plan theyd agree with her; or that she could collect the car. In 
those circumstances it would be for Miss O to pay for the repairs, recovery, and storage. 
During the call on 1 November 2021 I think they made a strong recommendation that the 
best course of action would be for Miss O to leave the car and allow them to sell it. The 
explanation of the additional costs Miss O would incur otherwise was sensible.
I dont think it would therefore be fair to suggest Black Horse misadvised Miss O. I think the 
advice they gave her was accurate and helpful. 
Black Horse gave reasons why they preferred not to email Miss O in a call she had with 
them in October 2021. I dont think that was unreasonable and I cant see that they sent 
letters to the wrong address either. During that October 2021 call Miss O confirmed her 
address in answers to security questions and its the same address we have for her. 
Black Horse offered Miss O £200 in compensation for any confusion caused and for failing to 
call Miss O back. Ive listened to the call record Miss O sent us in June 2022 and I think that 
explains the redress theyve offered. In the circumstances I think that was a fair offer.
Overall, whilst I acknowledge this was a distressing time for Miss O I dont think theres 
evidence Black Horse have done anything wrong and Im not asking them to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman