DRN-2909020
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy he was unable to make cash withdrawals from his Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) account.
Mr P has been represented by his son throughout his complaint. However, for clarity Ive 
only referred to Mr P in this decision. 
What happened
On 15 February 2021, Mr P attempted to withdraw £500 from his account. He was able to 
withdraw £300, but further attempts to withdraw cash were declined. He attempted to 
withdraw cash the following day but was unsuccessful. Mr P found that a block had been 
placed on his card by Halifax. 
Mr P complained to Halifax as it didnt tell Mr P that it had blocked his account when he 
attempted to make these cash withdrawals. This prompted Mr P to contact Halifax using its 
online chat function to understand why he couldnt make cash withdrawals. It provided him 
with a phone number to call. However, Mr P was unable to contact Halifax on the number it 
had provided him, when he did reach them he was incorrectly transferred to different 
departments and both him and his son spent two hours trying to resolve things. 
Halifax looked into Mr Ps complaint and said it automatically completed additional checks on 
transactions from time to time. It said whilst it didnt send a text message to Mr P to inform 
him it was carrying out an additional check, it recommended Mr P contact it if he couldnt 
access his account or funds. It also explained that its customer service over the phone could 
have been better. It paid Mr P £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused and £24 for 
his call costs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P referred his complaint to our service and said he wanted Halifax to 
pay him an additional £200 for the inconvenience caused to him and his son. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and agreed that Halifaxs service had fell short. 
But he thought the amount Halifax had paid Mr P was fair and didnt recommend Halifax did 
anything further.
As Mr P disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not recommending Halifax do anything more. I appreciate Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision, but Ive explained why Ive reached this decision below.
Cash withdrawal attempts
Banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in place to protect their 
customers money and their own. Its not our role to a tell a business what those measures 
are or how they are operated. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account entitle him to withdraw up to £500 a day from a 
cash machine. But they also say Halifax can refuse to allow a cash withdrawal in some 
circumstances. One of these circumstances is when:
the payment seems unusual compared with the way you normally use your account, 
in which case we may investigate further, for example by calling you.
Ive looked at Mr Ps attempts to withdraw cash from his account on 15 February 2021. I can 
see he was able to withdraw £300. He attempted to make four further withdrawals shortly 
after on the same day, attempting to withdraw £200 on three attempts and £100 in one 
attempt. These four attempts were declined. 
Halifax says its automated fraud detection system flagged the withdrawal attempts for further 
checks to ensure Mr P was making the withdrawals. Halifaxs terms and conditions entitled it 
to do this, as the repeated cash withdrawals appeared to be unusual for the way Mr P 
normally used his account. As part of this security measure, it blocked Mr Ps card to prompt 
him to call it so it could discuss its concerns. After Mr P was able to speak to Halifax later 
that day and verify the payments, it removed the block from his account. And Mr P was able 
to withdraw cash the following day.
Mr Ps mentioned he doesnt think Halifax is there for its vulnerable customers or those with 
learning difficulties or disabilities. But I cant comment on Halifaxs policies towards its 
customers as our service doesnt regulate it. I can only comment on whether its acted fairly 
and reasonably in this case. 
Having done so, I understand it was frustrating for Mr P to be unable to withdraw cash from 
his account, given that he says he was unable to visit a Halifax branch due to its opening 
times and as he was shielding. But I dont think Halifax made a mistake by applying the 
account block when it did. It was entitled to do this under the terms and conditions of the 
account. So I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for any inconvenience as a result of it 
correctly placing a block on Mr Ps account. 
Communication 
In this case, Halifax accepts the service it provided Mr P when he contacted them about the 
failed cash withdrawals was poor. So Ive considered whether the amount its already paid 
Mr P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr P wasnt made aware by Halifax that it had blocked his card. However, it 
says it doesnt always tell its customers it has blocked cash withdrawals on a card. This is in 
line with its internal process and Im satisfied this was followed in this case. I appreciate Mr P 
was still able to make a purchase in a supermarket and online, however Halifax only 
appeared to have concerns with the attempted cash withdrawals. This is why Mr P was still 
able to make online and purchases using his card.
Halifax has paid Mr P £24 for his call costs and £75 for the inconvenience caused. Overall in 
the circumstances, given that the block was removed the same day and Mr P was able to 
make his cash withdrawal the following day, and considering the overall service Halifax have 
provided, I think the amount Halifax have already paid Mr P is fair and reasonable. So it 
follows that I dont think it should do anything further to put things right.  My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman