DRN-1598092
The complaint
Mr F complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim made on his commercial 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Fs van was hit by another driver and declared a total loss. The other drivers insurer 
accepted liability and Mr F initially went through it to settle his claim. But he then changed his 
mind and made a claim through AXA. Mr F was unhappy with delays in the claim which 
meant that he couldnt get affordable insurance elsewhere. He said he felt pressured to 
accept a total loss settlement of £1,500 from the other insurer when hed been offered a 
higher sum via his broker. He wanted AXA to pay him the difference between these amounts 
and compensation for his wasted time and his trouble and upset.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought the 
delay had been caused due to Mr Fs decision to change how he made his claim. He thought 
AXA had given Mr F the choice of accepting the other insurers offer or of having its agent 
deal with the claim. He didnt see evidence that the broker had made Mr F a higher offer. But 
he thought there had been miscommunication and AXA should pay Mr F £100 compensation 
for this. 
AXA replied that it agreed to do this. But Mr F said £100 compensation wasnt enough for 
the time hed spent on the claim. He provided proof of the higher offer hed received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there were several businesses involved in Mr Fs claim: AXA, the other 
insurer, Mr Fs broker and a claims management company. I can only consider Mr Fs 
complaint against AXA as the other businesses are separate entities. 
AXA has provided its file notes and Ive read them. Mr F told AXA he was offered £3,200 in 
settlement of his claim by the claims management company. I can see that Mr F told AXA 
that hed accepted this offer and that his broker was dealing with the claim. Four days later, 
Mr F contacted AXA to express his frustration with how the claim was progressing. He was 
worried as his policy was shortly due for renewal. He didnt have a van for his work. AXA 
said it would try to find out what was going on. 
I can see that AXA tried to contact the broker, without success. Mr F called the next day and 
then the following day as AXA hadnt called him. I can understand Mr Fs frustration, but I 
can see AXA was still waiting for the broker to call and it had no update to give him at that 
time. 
The broker than told AXA that it thought Mr F should claim through it. But AXA thought the 
other insurer was handling the claim. In the meantime, Mr F was trying to locate his van 
without success. And AXA were unable to contact the other insurer to chase progress. 
Two weeks later, AXA thought the other insurer was dealing with the claim. Mr F had told 
AXA that the other insurer was unable to make a total loss offer as it couldnt locate his van. 
AXA tried to transfer Mr F to the other insurer, without success. I can understand Mr Fs 
frustration, but I can see that AXA was attempting to locate his van and tried to refer him to 
the company that was dealing with his claim. 
Eventually, AXA found that the claims management company had recovered the van and it 
had been in storage for four weeks. But the claims management company said it had 
withdrawn its services and passed the claim back to AXA. But the other insurer was still 
dealing with the claim. 
Three weeks later, Mr F said the other insurer had made him an offer of £1,500 that he 
needed to accept that day. AXA offered to make a valuation of the van, but it couldnt 
guarantee that this would be higher. AXA then found that Mr F accepted the other insurers 
offer. It closed the claim as for notification only and allowed Mr Fs No Claims Discount. 
I can understand that Mr F was frustrated with the time it was taking to deal with his claim. In 
the meantime, he didnt have a van for his work. His policy was coming up for renewal and, 
because the claim was still open, his quotes for new cover were high. 
But I cant reasonably hold AXA responsible for this delay as I think it was unclear to AXA 
who Mr F was making his claim through. I cant see that Mr F asked AXA to deal with his 
claim. I think he initially went through the claims management company and then the other 
insurer. Eventually, when he was disappointed with the other insurers settlement offer, AXA 
offered to deal with the claim through its agent. But Mr F declined this offer. 
Mr F said hed spent hours pursuing his claim. And I can see that he called AXA many times 
to see what was going on. But I think AXA reasonably tried to look into matters for him. I 
cant hold it responsible for the other parties failure to respond to its enquiries. And, as AXA 
wasnt dealing with the claim, I cant hold it accountable for the time Mr F spent calling it. 
Ive seen that the claims management company offered Mr F £3,200 in settlement of his 
claim for his vans total loss. But I dont think AXA needs to reimburse Mr F for the difference 
between this and the amount offered by the other insurer. This is because AXA offered to 
deal with the claim, and make a valuation of his van, but Mr F declined this. So I cant hold 
AXA responsible either for the initial offer or for Mr Fs decision to accept the other insurers 
offer.
Putting things right
AXA agreed that promised call backs hadnt been provided. Its already paid Mr F £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience this caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr F £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its level of service, as its already done. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman