DRN-3093216
The complaint
Mr G and Miss P complain about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
declining to deal with a claim under their Landlords Legal Protection policy.
Mr G has been the main correspondent with us, so Ill mainly refer to him throughout.
What happened
The policy started in mid-October 2020 and in mid-December 2020 Mr G wanted to evict a 
tenant so that he could sell his property with vacant possession. He initiated a claim, but it 
took until February 2021 before DAS gave its decision that it wouldnt be covering the claim. 
This was because the policy didnt cover disagreements with a tenant when the date of 
occurrence is within the first 90 days of the (first) period of insurance and the tenancy 
agreement started before the start of the policy. And these circumstances, according to 
DAS, applied in Mr Gs claim.
DAS stood by its decision that the policy didnt cover the claim circumstances but accepted 
that its communication was poor at times. DAS accepted, for example, that it should have 
advised Mr G earlier than it did of a policy requirement for him to have served the relevant 
notice for possession on the tenant. DAS also said Mr G should have been referred to the 
legal advice helpline where he could have got assistance with what was required in terms of 
issuing the notice. And it encouraged him to do so in its final response letter of 1 March 
2021. DAS offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought the £200 offered for was a fair amount to reflect the stress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr G. But Mr G disagreed, his main issues are that he doesnt 
accept there was a disagreement with the tenant and DAS delay meant a Section 21 notice 
to quit wasnt and still hasnt been served on the tenant. 
The matter has been referred for an ombudsmans determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance policy document sets out the specific events that are insured and the relevant 
terms and conditions that need to be satisfied for a successful claim.
The policy covers specified events including Repossession, but this is subject to conditions 
including that Mr G must give his tenant the correct notices telling them he wants possession 
of his property. And theres a specific section on what isnt covered, which includes the main 
reason why DAS declined Mr Gs claim as follows;
Any disagreement with your tenant when the date of occurrence is within the first 90 
days of the first period of insurance and the tenancy agreement started before the 
start of this policy, unless equivalent legal expenses and tenant default insurance 
was continuously in force.
DAS main reason to reject the claim was because in its view Mr G was in disagreement with 
his tenant within the first 90 days of the policy, and so its this Ill look at first, bearing in mind 
Mr Gs position that there was no disagreement as there was no breach of the tenancy  he 
just wanted possession to sell the property.
The policy doesnt define disagreement but Im not of the view it has a technical meaning 
when reading the policy as a whole into account. Its a word used in ordinary and everyday 
context and a typical dictionary definition is that there is a lack of agreement or consensus.
Its apparent that Mr G had granted the tenant a lease for two years, which ended in 2019. 
The tenant remained in the property after this date with Mr Gs agreement. According to 
Mr G, given some personal circumstances arising in 2020, he wanted to sell the property 
and asked the tenant to give up possession of his property. The tenant apparently took 
advice and informed Mr G that she wasnt willing to give up possession voluntarily and so 
hed need to serve her with legal notice. And it was at this point he contacted DAS to make 
the claim. 
The policy started in mid-October and by mid-December Mr G initiated his claim, thus within 
the first 90 days of the policy starting (for the avoidance of doubt there was no previous 
policy). And Im satisfied the tenancy agreement commenced in 2017, so before his 
insurance policy started. He had to make the claim because his tenant had refused to quit 
the tenancy and vacate the property after he had asked them to. Im satisfied this constitutes 
a disagreement. Having thought about this carefully I am satisfied it was fair of DAS to 
decline the claim as presented because the circumstances fell within what was specifically 
particularised in the policy as not being covered.
Ive considered DAS general handling of the claim bearing in mind its duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. DAS has already accepted some failings in that it should have made 
Mr G aware that he needed to serve correct notices on the tenant before it could give cover 
for Repossession, and from the outset to speak with the legal advice helpline where he could 
have got assistance in issuing the correct notice. Im not persuaded this would have made 
any difference though as to whether his claim would be covered. Thats because a 
disagreement had already manifested given the tenant had refused Mr Gs request to vacate 
the property. And it was because of this disagreement that notice needed to be served.  
I appreciate Mr G feels let down by DAS and believes that as the insurer it should issue the 
tenant with notice to quit. But Im afraid because of the circumstances in how the 
disagreement arose, such that formal notice was required, and that it did so within the first 
90 days, Im not satisfied the claim is covered. I agree DAS claim handling was poor in 
some respects, but it didnt impact the outcome of whether Mr Gs claim was covered. I 
accept it caused him some distress and inconvenience given the lack of clarity and the time 
taken to issue a decision on the claim. But Im satisfied the impact was relatively short and 
the content of the final response letter gave appropriate information on how Mr G could use 
the legal helpline to get assistance in how to issue notice to quit on the tenant. In all the 
circumstances Im satisfied £200 is fair.
  
My final decisionI am aware that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has made an offer to pay 
£200 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My decision is that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr G and 
Miss P £200, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman