DRN-3105940
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain they were treated unfairly when their application to port their 
mortgage was declined and they had to pay a significant early repayment charge when they 
redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
In around 2019 Mrs W and Mr W took a 30-year capital and interest repayment mortgage of 
about £360,000 with Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco). They had 
an initial fixed interest rate product which was due to expire in 2023. If they redeemed the 
mortgage before then, Mrs W and Mr W had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mrs W and Mr W applied to Tesco for additional borrowing for home improvements. When 
their application was declined, they looked at moving instead. They planned to port their 
existing mortgage and borrow additional funds to pay off their unsecured borrowing.
Tesco initially said, in principle, theyd lend Mrs W and Mr W £450,000. Although this was 
less than they wanted, they put their property on the market based on that figure. A few days 
later, Tesco reduced the amount to £402,000. Although unhappy, Mrs W and Mr W decided 
to go ahead based on a decision in principle (DIP) for the lower amount. At the same time, to 
keep their options open, they applied for a DIP with Halifax who were prepared to lend them 
significantly more. 
In mid-September 2019, Tesco wrote to Mrs W and Mr W letting them know theyd stopped 
offering mortgages and would be transferring ownership of their mortgage to Halifax in the 
future. Mrs W and Mr W say Tesco couldnt tell them clearly what that would mean for their 
porting application, the Halifax DIP and the ERC. But they decided to look for a property that 
allowed them to port their existing mortgage rather than risk incurring a large ERC.
By the time Mrs W and Mr W were able to go ahead with their sale and purchase, the DIP 
had expired, and they had to reapply. By then, Tesco were only prepared to lend the amount 
of their existing mortgage. 
Mrs W and Mr W felt it was unfair Tesco had repeatedly changed their lending criteria and 
declined to lend the amounts theyd applied for. They complained to Tesco about the way in 
which their applications had been handled and comments they understood had been made 
about their lending habits, which they found offensive.
Mrs W and Mr W felt it was unfair Tesco were insisting on them paying the ERC. They 
thought Tesco ought to agree their porting application since their mortgage was already 
owned by Halifax, even though it hadnt been transferred to their system. They said, if it had 
been transferred to Halifaxs system, their porting application would go through and the ERC 
would not be payable.
In January 2020 Tesco responded to Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. They rejected their 
concerns and refused to waive the ERC. They said since Mrs W and Mr W werent porting 
their existing rate to a new property, the ERC was payable under the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage. In March 2020, Mrs W and Mr W completed their sale and purchase with a 
new mortgage from Halifax. They redeemed their mortgage with Tesco and paid the ERC of 
around £14,000. 
Since Halifax didnt uphold their complaint, Mrs W and Mr W brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong. As Mrs W and 
Mr W didnt accept his view, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention here everything the parties have said. No discourtesy is intended by that. 
It reflects the informal nature of the service the Financial Ombudsman provides. Ive focused 
on what I consider to be key in coming to my decision. But Id like to reassure the parties Ive 
thought carefully about what happened.
I can understand it was frustrating Tesco appeared to be applying different considerations to 
the applications Mrs W and Mr W were making. When a lender issues a DIP, it is no more 
than an indication of the amount they may be prepared to lend, based on initial information, 
subject to a full mortgage application and full financial information and supporting 
documentation being provided. So, I dont think Tesco did anything wrong in declining to 
make formal mortgage offers even when theyd given Mrs W and Mr W DIPs. 
Mrs W and Mr Ws mortgage said they could port their interest rate product provided they 
met Tescos lending criteria at the time of their application. Lenders are obliged to consider 
whether borrowing is affordable for their customers under relevant mortgage rules. Their 
lending criteria will take that into account as well as other factors such as customers existing 
debts, spending habits and credit rating. And lenders may change their lending criteria from 
time to time depending on their appetite for risk and commercial factors. I cant decide 
whether Tescos lending criteria were inherently unfair. But I can consider whether they 
treated Mrs W and Mr W fairly and reasonably when they considered their applications.
From what Ive seen, there were some differences, between applications, in information   
Mrs W and Mr W provided about their financial situation. Tesco explained their concerns 
about that, and the level of debt Mrs W and Mr W had - although I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence they made the remarks about their borrowing habits that Mrs W and   
Mr W found offensive. Overall, Im satisfied Tesco carried out appropriate enquiries, gave 
Mrs W and Mr Ws applications fair consideration - including by their underwriters - and 
provided appropriate information about their lending decisions. In the circumstances, I think 
Tesco treated Mrs W and Mr W fairly and reasonably when considering their applications. 
From conversations he had with Halifax, Mrs W and Mr Ws broker understood theyd easily 
be able to port their mortgage rate with Tesco to Halifax, and take a new rate for the 
additional borrowing, once a new mortgage number had been allocated to their existing 
mortgage. Mrs W and Mr W argue a new number may have been issued before they 
redeemed their mortgage. And, if so, they should have been able to port. Im not persuaded, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, its certain their application would have succeeded or that it 
would have happened in time. Even if Im wrong about that, I dont think it matters, as Ill 
explain.
I think its unlikely the issuing of the new mortgage number was the relevant date for when 
Mrs W and Mr W could have made an application to Halifax, even if thats what Halifax told 
their broker. Its more likely the relevant date was when the transfer of Mrs W and Mr Ws mortgage from Tesco to Halifax took place. 
Letters sent to Mrs W and Mr W by Tesco and Halifax confirm legal ownership transferred to 
Halifax on 30 March 2020  even though theyd already redeemed the mortgage. Halifax 
have confirmed that legal transfer of the mortgage was on that date and the mortgage was 
migrated to their systems later in the year. Im satisfied Mrs W and Mr W would have had to 
wait until 30 March 2020 to apply to Halifax to port their Tesco mortgage product.
Even if it had been possible to port once the mortgage had transferred to Halifax, I dont 
think it makes any difference to the outcome of Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint since theyd 
redeemed the mortgage by then. Mrs W and Mr W were obliged to pay an ERC if they 
redeemed their mortgage early. They knew that. It was clear from their mortgage terms and 
conditions. Mrs W discussed it with Tesco in September 2019. Tesco told them in January 
2020 when they responded to their complaint and refused to waive the ERC. And Mrs W and 
Mr W told us they knew in February 2020 the transfer of their mortgage to Halifax would be 
finalised in March and they asked their buyer to delay completion until the end of that month.
I acknowledge Mrs W and Mr W were under pressure to complete their sale before 30 March 
2020 so as not to lose their buyer. But they went ahead knowing theyd have to pay the 
ERC. And, although I am sure it was a difficult decision, that was their choice. If theyd 
waited until their fixed interest rate product expired in 2023, they could have avoided the 
ERC. Just because the transfer of their mortgage to Halifax was confirmed shortly 
afterwards, and they may have been able to port then, doesnt mean its unfair for Tesco to 
have required the ERC to be paid. Theres a cost to lenders when borrowers redeem their 
fixed rate mortgages early which the ERC is designed to address. 
I acknowledge Mrs W and Mr Ws strength of feeling about what happened. I can understand 
it was frustrating they werent able to organise their mortgage and pay off their unsecured 
debt in the way theyd hoped. But, bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand they will 
be disappointed, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman