DRN-3654485
The complaint
Mr T has a motor insurance policy with Acromas Insurance Company Limited. Following a 
car accident, a claim was made against Mr T and he requested legal assistance to defend 
that claim. Mr T is unhappy with Acromass response.
What happened
Following the claim Acromas asked Mr T for information about the accident. It felt it needed 
to ask for more information and clarification. Subsequently it notified Mr T that it is not 
offering him indemnity for the incident. Acromas has said it hasnt provided indemnity as it 
says it has been unable to validate the claim, Mr T disputes this. He says he felt badgered 
by the continued questioning of his testimony. Mr T says that his recollection of events has 
been accurate. He wants the claim accepted.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Acromas had 
acted in line with industry rules and policy terms and conditions when considering the claim. 
She thought it was reasonable of it to question information provided further to understand 
what happened and that Acromas had been reasonable when concluding the claim cannot 
be validated at this time.
Mr Ts son has asked on his fathers behalf for an ombudsmans decision. He says his father 
was the driver at the time of the incident and has provided answers to all questions asked by 
the insurance. He doesn't feel it is fair that Acromas is denying indemnity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained our role isnt to determine the accuracy or the merits of the 
testimony from the accident, that would be for a court to do. What we can look at though is 
the actions of the insurer and whether it was fair to ask questions based on the recollection 
of events provided by the Mr T. And whether any subsequent action it took was reasonable.
Having done I think it was reasonable of Acromas to ask questions about possible 
inconsistencies in the information it had received to understand the circumstances of the 
claim fully. The policy sets out that: Anyone claiming cover under this policy must give us 
whatever information, documentation and help we need and continue to do so until the claim 
is concluded. I think the questions Acromas asked were reasonable. I think the insurer was 
trying to ascertain what happened and whether a valid claim was being made. I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Acromas was unable to confirm coverage under the policy until it had 
satisfactory responses to the questions asked and I dont think that Acromas is being 
unreasonable by not being satisfied with the responses to date.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman