DRN-3847564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt offered a suitable settlement for a 
subsidence claim.
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs S had a claim for subsidence against their Aviva home insurance policy 
accepted. After monitoring and investigations, the insurer said an oak tree was responsible 
for the subsidence. It proposed removing it, and another tree, for long-term stability. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with that. They want the oak tree retained and for their property 
to be underpinned instead. Aviva wasnt willing to do that. It said if Mr and Mrs S chose not 
to remove the tree it would cash settle the internal repairs. 
Aviva responded to a complaint from Mr and Mrs S. It didnt change its position on the tree 
removal. But it offered £100 compensation for a communication issue.  
Our investigator considered the complaint. He was satisfied Avivas proposal to remove the 
oak tree was reasonable. So he didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Aviva or Mr and Mrs S provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided. Having done so, I cant say Avivas proposed solution is unfair or unreasonable. 
So Im not going to interfere by requiring it to do something different, for example pay for 
underpinning. 
Avivas engineer feels, based on movement monitoring results, that the damage to Mr and 
Mrs S property is caused by clay shrinkage exacerbated by vegetation. Its arboriculture 
consultant, based on samples of roots, says the oak tree is the principal cause of the 
subsidence. It recommended removing the tree close to ground level. I can see it also, as a 
possible compromise, suggested the possibility of regular pruning of the oak instead. 
Mr and Mrs S understandably would like it retained for its visual impact and wider role it 
plays in the local habitat. They also say it can provide some flood protection. In addition they 
feel underpinning will provide a more long-term solution. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs S own engineering report. It questions the desirability or 
effectiveness of removing the tree. The author acknowledges they arent specialist in 
arboriculture but suggest its removal could cause heave and further damage. Aviva says its 
engineer feels there is little risk of that. 
Mr and Mrs S engineer also suggests movement to the original part of the house may result 
from the previous removal of an oak tree  from an earlier claim. However, I havent seen 
anything to support this suggestion. The report, whilst providing some depths for suggested 
increased foundations, doesnt persuade me that removing the tree wouldnt be a 
reasonable approach.  
Ultimately Id expect Aviva to stop the current movement, but not to make sure the property 
never moves again. Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs S have provided, but Im more 
persuaded by Avivas evidence that its proposal is a reasonable way to try to address the 
current movement. It says it will continue monitoring after the tree is removed. If movement 
continues, Id expect it to continue with investigations and find a solution. I havent seen 
enough to persuade me it would be reasonable to require Aviva to underpin the property at 
this stage. 
Mr and Mrs S have suggested the recent movement might result from a failure of Aviva to 
adequately deal with their previous subsidence claim  more than ten years ago.
The insurer doesnt accept the two incidents are related. I havent seen enough to persuade 
me they are or that the current claim is a continuation of the earlier one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman