DRN-2950500
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) blocked and closed her business 
accounts, and used the account balances to pay off a loan. To put things right, she wants 
HSBC to pay the closing balances to her, and pay her compensation.
Mrs Y brings this complaint on behalf of her business, C.
What happened
In August 2020, HSBC blocked Cs accounts while it carried out a review. Mrs Y complained, 
but HSBC rejected the complaint and issued a final response letter in September 2020 
saying the accounts had been inhibited while HSBC complied with its statutory requirements. 
HSBC then closed Cs accounts and retained the account balances.
HSBC also blocked and closed other accounts that were under Mrs Ys control. But because 
this complaint is brought by C, I will only address matters relating to Cs accounts, and not 
any accounts in Mrs Ys personal name, or the names of any other limited companies she 
controls.
When HSBC rejected Cs complaint, Mrs Y brought it to our service, saying she wanted 
HSBC to release Cs funds and pay compensation. Our investigator looked into Cs 
complaint, but didnt uphold it.
She said she was satisfied HSBC was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when it blocked Cs accounts, that it had acted in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions when it closed Cs accounts, and that HSBC was entitled to retain the account 
funds to offset against the outstanding balance of a debt C owed HSBC.
Mrs Y didnt accept our investigators findings. She said HSBCs actions had damaged her 
business, and that HSBC wasnt legally entitled to take the balance in her account, because 
the Government had approved the loan. She asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Mrs Y says the account block prevented C from paying suppliers, clients and staff. And, 
given the block was placed at a time when the country was under restrictions relating to the 
Coronavirus pandemic, I have no doubt it caused C problems with continuing to trade. 
However, if Im to make an award in favour of C, I have to be persuaded that HSBC has 
acted unfairly or done something wrong. And, having looked at the evidence both parties 
have submitted, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of these obligations, sometimes 
banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain documents or 
information.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to take the actions it 
did. HSBC has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
Cs accounts and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
Ive considered whether HSBC acted promptly in completing the review, given the accounts 
were blocked from 27 August 2020 until closure in January 2021. Our investigator was of the 
view that the review could have been completed more quickly, but she didnt think 
compensation was appropriate given the accounts were ultimately closed and the funds 
retained.
Its for the same reason that I wont tell HSBC to compensate C for any delays. Even if 
HSBC had completed the review more quickly, C would have been in the same position that 
it ended up in, i.e. with its accounts closed and access to the funds within denied. So I cant 
say C has lost out as a result of the time it took HSBC to complete its review.
I understand Mrs Ys frustrations, but because Im not persuaded HSBC did anything wrong 
or treated C unfairly, I cant reasonably tell it to pay C compensation.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps HSBC took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Cs account, with which both HSBC and C had to comply, say that HSBC can 
close Cs accounts as long as it gives at least 60 days notice. And I can see HSBC gave C 
62 days notice in its letter dated 6 October 2020, so it complied with its contractual 
obligations. Further, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for HSBC to 
disclose the reasons behind its decision.
That being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably make an award in Cs 
favour.
Account balance
When HSBC completed its review, it told Mrs Y it would be recalling the £50,000 bounce 
back loan it had previously paid to C. HSBC offset the balance in Cs account (£44,433.35) 
against the bounce back loan, meaning there were no funds to return to C when the 
accounts were closed. 
Mrs Y said the loan had been approved by the Government, and that HSBC couldnt legally 
hold onto the Governments funds. She was also unhappy that she wasnt given the option of 
a repayment plan by instalments.
The first thing to say here is that the bounce back loan was issued by HSBC, not the 
Government. It was based on a contract between C and HSBC, and was simply backed by 
the Government. That is to say that the Government would have been obliged to reimburse 
HSBC if C had defaulted on the loan, but the loan funds are still HSBCs money.Ive looked at the terms of the contract, Ive listened to what Mrs Y has said, and Ive looked 
at the evidence HSBC submitted to explain why it was entitled to offset the account funds 
against the loan. The terms and conditions of the loan set out the circumstances in which 
HSBC can demand repayment of the loan, as well as the circumstances in which it can 
offset funds maintained in a current account against the outstanding balance. 
Having considered all of the evidence both parties have provided, Im not persuaded HSBC 
made a mistake or breached the terms of Cs contract. HSBC is entitled to take such actions 
in certain circumstances, and indeed our Service would expect it to do so when those 
circumstances are present. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to apply 
the fund in Cs accounts against the loan debt in the manner it did. And that it wasnt obliged 
to consider repayment by instalments.
I know this isnt the answer Mrs Y was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information 
Ive given wont answer many of the questions she had. But I hope she can take some 
comfort from what Ive said and in light of an independent third-party reviewing HSBCs 
actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman