DRN-3245949
The complaint
Mr F has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr F was involved in an accident. At the time, he was stationary in his van 
when another drivers (the third party) campervan hit him and removed his wingmirror. The 
third party initially agreed to reimburse Mr F for the cost of repairs. But he later said he 
wasn't prepared to meet those costs and that the claim would have to go through the 
insurance companies. 
Mr F contacted AXA to make a claim. AXA began dealing with the claim and also referred 
Mr F to solicitors so he could pursue his uninsured losses separately. Mr F gave AXA the 
details of an independent witness. But AXA didn't contact the witness for over a year. And, in 
the meantime, the third party insurer offered to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. 
In August 2020 Mr F brought his complaint about AXAs handling of the claim to us.
AXA issued its response to Mr Fs complaint in December 2020. It acknowledged it had been 
slow to contact the witness whose details Mr F had provided and offered Mr F £150 
compensation. Mr F asked us to continue looking into the complaint for him. 
Eventually, in November 2021, solicitors representing Mr F said that it didn't think he had 
reasonable prospects of success if the matter went to court. As a result AXA said the best 
Mr F could hope for in terms of settling the claim, was a 50/50 split, which the third party 
insurer had already offered. 
Our investigator didn't think AXA had dealt with Mr F fairly so she said it should:
Mark the claim as non-fault/no claims discount (NCD) allowed on an insurance 
industry shared database.
Recalculate Mr Fs premium, which had renewed since the accident, to show the 
claim as non-fault and refund any difference to Mr F.
Pay Mr F £500 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience arising from 
its poor handling of the claim.
AXA didn't agree to mark the claim as non-fault/NCD allowed so the case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Mr F is clearly very unhappy with AXAs stance that the matter should be settled on a 50/50 
liability basis. He knows he was stationary when the accident happened and the third party 
initially said he would cover the costs of Mr Fs repairs. So Mr F is adamant that the third 
party was 100% to blame for the accident. And in those circumstances I can understand why 
he isn't happy with AXAs handling of the matter. But the third party gave a different version 
of events to his insurer and he blamed Mr F for the accident, so the third party insurer didn't 
accept 100% liability for it.
I should say that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as ultimately thats a 
matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Fs policy allows AXA to settle claims as 
it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Fs consent to decide how to settle a claim and it 
may make a decision he doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so 
reasonably.
Mr F told AXA, shortly after making his claim, that he had an independent witness to the 
accident who would support his version of events. So, I can understand he would have 
expected AXA to contact the witness promptly to take a statement whilst the events were 
fresh in their mind and then put that statement to the third party insurer. And where one 
version of events is supported by a credible independent witness holding the other party at 
fault, it's common for that version of events to be accepted by both insurers involved. That 
would generally result in the claim being settled in favour of the driver with the supporting 
witness. In this case that would be Mr F. But, where neither side has the benefit of an 
independent witness or CCTV etc, and both versions of events are credible, then its often 
the case that liability is shared on a 50/50 basis
As I've said above, Mr F did have an independent witness who supported his version of 
events. But AXA didn't initially take any action at all to contact the witness. Indeed, as far as 
I can see it was over a year later  and only when Mr F reminded it  that it realised there 
was an independent witness and began the process of contacting him. That delay was 
entirely unwarranted and clearly wasn't reasonable. And the significant delay caused the 
third party insurer to then call into question the credibility of the witness and his statement, 
as it wondered why the witness had seemingly suddenly appeared over a year later. Further, 
the third party then suggested, without any supporting evidence, that the witness and Mr F 
were known to each other previously. So it seems the third party insurer didn't accept the 
witness statement and wasn't prepared to accept that the third party was 100% to blame for 
the accident. But it did say it was prepared to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. 
I understand that after AXA contacted the witness, both it and Mr Fs solicitors had difficulty 
getting him to complete a statement. And, when he did, while he did support Mr Fs version 
of events, the witness said he wasn't prepared to attend court. That made the prospect of 
success in court more difficult for Mr F. Thats because its usual to give the other side the 
opportunity to test a witness' evidence by cross-examining them in court. And if the witness 
isn't prepared to attend court then the other side won't have that opportunity and their 
evidence may be discounted. So, if the witness wouldn't attend court, and the third party 
insurer didn't accept his evidence, AXA and Mr F were essentially back to square one in 
terms of not having supporting evidence. It was on that basis that the solicitors representing 
Mr F decided that they didn't have reasonable prospects of success if the matter went to 
court; so they decided not to pursue the matter. Similarly, AXA wasn't prepared to issue 
court proceedings. That left Mr F with the likelihood of only a 50/50 split liability decision. 
Such a decision would affect Mr Fs NCD entitlement, his insurance history and his future 
premiums.I think the delay in approaching the witness might have affected Mr Fs position. At the 
outset the witness was happy to give his details to support Mr F. So it seems, at an early 
stage, he thought Mr F had a justified claim against the third party. And if AXA had 
progressed the matter promptly and thoroughly, shortly after receiving the witness details 
there was a distinct possibility that he would have engaged with the process. Had that 
happened the third party insurer would have known from an early stage that Mr Fs version 
of events was credible because he had independent evidence to support it. In those 
circumstances its likely that the third party insurer would have accepted 100% liability. But 
that didn't happen. So we cant now know with any certainty what would have happened had 
AXA done what it should have done at the outset.
AXA did contact the witness some 13 months or so after the accident. At that time he 
appeared reluctant to engage with the process. He didn't initially return witness statement 
forms sent to him and then said he wasn't prepared to attend court, although he later 
changed his mind about that. But he then again didn't respond to the solicitors requests for a 
statement of truth. That led the solicitors and AXA to believe that the witness was unlikely to 
give evidence in court. 
Given the witness seeming reluctance to help over a year after the accident, AXA may think 
that would have been his position even if it had contacted him promptly. But theres simply 
no evidence to support that viewpoint. And as I've said above we don't know with any 
certainty what would have happened if AXA had approached the witness within a reasonable 
timeframe. But, what I can say for certain is that AXA didn't approach the witness within a 
reasonable timeframe. So any prospect of securing his early commitment to the process was 
lost. And that has resulted in AXA believing that the best it can achieve is a 50/50 split 
liability, when, if it had acted reasonably, matters might have been resolved 100% in Mr Fs 
favour. 
So I'm satisfied that AXAs delays in contacting the witness have denied Mr F the opportunity 
of having the claim settled 100% in his favour. To put things right I think its fair and 
reasonable for AXA to treat the claim as not being in any way Mr Fs fault. That means it 
should mark the claim as being non-fault/NCD allowed on internal and external databases. It 
should reflect the non-fault status of the claim in Mr Fs NCD history and write to him to 
confirm that. It should also recalculate Mr Fs premiums for policies renewed since the 
accident to reflect the non-fault status of the claim. If that results in a reduction of those 
premiums it should refund Mr F the difference. And, as this matter has clearly been a source 
of distress and inconvenience for Mr F, not least because its been ongoing for a 
considerable period of time, I think it should pay him £500 compensation.
For completeness I'll add that in response to our investigators assessment of the complaint 
AXA said that the witness had told Mr F that he didn't see the accident. But in his signed 
statement the witness has answered yes to a question about whether he saw the accident 
clearly. So I have no reason to believe that wouldnt have been his position. 
Also, AXA said it had requested an update from its claim team as it hadn't accepted the third 
party insurers 50/50 liability offer and hadn't paid any of the third partys claim. In other 
words it implied the matter was still ongoing and it was still disputing liability. But the third 
party didn't make a claim on his policy. So there was no part of any third party claim for AXA 
to settle. And while AXA might not have accepted the third party insurers 50/50 offer, given 
that its said it's not going to take the matter to court, AXA has no other way of persuading 
the third party insurer to change its stance on liability. That means that, while it might not 
have formally accepted the third party insurers offer yet, continuing to dispute liability will 
simply make the claim take longer to close, with no real prospect of it doing so in Mr Fs favour. It follows that I'm satisfied its reasonable for AXA to take the action I've set out in this 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Mark this claim as being non-fault/NCD allowed for Mr F. It should adjust his NCD 
entitlement to reflect that and write to him to confirm it.
Recalculate Mr Fs premiums which have renewed since the accident to reflect 
the non-fault/NCD allowed status of the claim. If should refund Mr F any 
difference in the premiums. 
Pay Mr F £500 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman