DRN-2817486
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
claim (PPI), that he said he didnt authorise them to make. 
What happened
Mr H said he hadnt asked or instructed Allay to pursue PPI claims on his behalf and didnt 
know who they were. 
In October 2019, Mr H said he was surprised to receive a compensation offer from one of his 
lenders Ill call N. The confirmation about his successful claim didnt have any details about 
Allay, so he was also surprised when Allay got in touch to ask him to pay their fee. He 
complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr H had in July 2019, electronically signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing 
them to pursue a PPI claim on his behalf to his lender. And that hed agreed to their terms 
and conditions. On receipt of the LoA they passed Mr Hs details to N for them to check if 
he had any PPI policies with them. After which N told Allay theyd received Mr Hs claim 
and that PPI had been found . Allay said they updated Mr H by text message and email 
about the progress of his claim.
Allay said they also asked Mr H to complete a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) to support his claim 
that hed been mis-sold PPI. They said Mr H completed the PPIQ and theyd sent it to N. In 
October 2019 after N had completed their investigation they told Allay that Mr Hs claim 
was successful. As Mr H hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, they asked him to pay 
their success fee. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Allays response. He said the signature on the LoA wasnt his. Mr H 
reiterated he hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf to make a claim for mis-sold PPI. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said  it was more likely that Mr H had authorised Allay to make a claim for 
mis-sold PPI on his behalf. And that theyd submitted his claim which had been successful. 
He said Allays fees were justified.
Mr H didnt agree he again said hed never completed any application and Allay must have 
gotten his details from the internet. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration as he doesnt agree that he asked Allay to look into 
whether he had any PPI. He strongly feels that he didnt supply the information theyd used 
and the signature on the LoA wasnt his.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, we arent handwriting 
experts, and forgery is a matter for a criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute 
resolution service. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont 
place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and 
weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is 
the case here, I reach my decision on what I think most likely happened. So, I need to 
determine whether its more likely that Mr H authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he 
had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him. And Ill consider 
whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr H.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal information provided included, date of birth, address, email address, telephone 
number and lender details. And correlate with personal details Mr H has given this service. 
On completion of the application, Allay said a LoA would be generated populated with this 
information. And could only be signed after the terms and conditions have been agreed to. 
There is also the option to save a copy in a PDF file for review.
Once the LoA is submitted Allay said an acknowledgement can be seen to show the 
application has been received. Allay has also said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a 
signature being added. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
And I can see from Allays records they submitted the LoA to N in July 2019 and they 
acknowledged its receipt. And later in the same month N confirmed Mr H had been paying 
a PPI premium since December 1999. The following day Allay sent an email (to the same e 
mail address provided to us) to Mr H headed Great News. I consider this to be the 
notification to Mr H that PPI had been found. But this doesnt automatically mean that a PPI 
claim will be successful, as the claim needs to show the PPI policy was mis-sold.  Within this 
notification there would have been a link to a PPIQ to provide supporting information that the 
PPI had been mis-sold. 
Allays records show the PPIQ was completed at the end of July 2019. And included specific 
information about Mr Hs employment. I can see a couple of days later a message was sent 
to mobile telephone number ending *4237 and an email was also sent to Mr H confirming 
receipt and that the details had been passed to N.
Allays records also show an update text message was sent, again to the number ending 
*4237 and update emails to Mr H  in September and October 2019. And later in October 
2019, N told both Mr H and Allay his claim mis-sold PPI claim was successful, and the 
compensation being offered. I think this shows N accepted Allay had authority to represent 
Mr H in making his PPI claim. So, considering all of the above Im satisfied, on balance that 
Mr H authorised Allay to act on his behalf in pursuing a PPI claim for him.
I will now look to see whether Mr H asked Allay to stop working for him. 
Allays terms and conditions say:From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr H asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or 
after the 14-day cooling off period.  I know Mr H said he didnt know who Allay were. But 
after being notified that PPI had been found, within the 14-day cooling off period. And getting 
updates about the progress of his claim I havent seen any evidence that Mr H asked Allay to 
stop or question them as to why they were still contacting him. The claim may not have been 
formalised according to Mr H, but its not enough that he simply disengaged from the 
process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of 
the 14-day cooling off period, theyd submitted his PPI claim to N and the claim was 
successful.
The agreement Mr H had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim they 
submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr Hs claim as their agreement hadnt 
been cancelled. And his claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr H agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mr H could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by him to act on his behalf and his claims were successful. This means Allay can charge 
their fees for these claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman