DRN-3619071
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) delayed processing a payment he had 
authorised.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Santander. On 9 June 2022, he sent instructions for a payment 
of around £80,000 to another UK business. It was intended that this money would then be 
transferred onward to a foreign account to assist a family member.
On 10 June 2022, Santander placed a temporary hold on the transfer in order to carry out 
checks. Mr S contacted Santander to see why the transaction had not been completed. He 
was told that back office checks were being carried out, and that further information or 
escalation was not possible at that time. He was told that the checks would involve a call to 
him, but that the time of this call could not be guaranteed. He would have to wait for that call, 
which he received at around 5pm on 14 June 2022. 
Mr S says that these checks did not amount to him providing any additional information, but 
were simply a restatement of information already provided. Mr S says that he understands 
that security checks are necessary, but says that he wants to make sure that future 
payments arent delayed unnecessarily.
On 14 June 2022, three business days after the initial instruction, the transaction was 
completed. Mr S says that this caused a delay in his foreign payment, during which time the 
exchange rate became less favourable, costing him over £500. Santander says that the 
checks were necessary, but agrees that it did not provide proper information in relation to the 
delays. It paid Mr S £100 to reflect this on 4 July 2022.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service, where our investigator did not think that 
Santander needed to do anything more. They thought that the checks were necessary and 
properly carried out, meaning that the delay was fair and reasonable. They thought that the 
£100 properly reflected any inconvenience which might have been caused by the delay.
Mr S did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Additional security checks are sometimes necessary, both to comply with banks regulatory 
obligations, and to keep customers money safe. While Santander do not wish to make 
sensitive information about these checks to be made public, they have shared with me the 
reason that the payment was delayed. I think that those reasons were fair and reasonable 
and so do not consider that Santander acted unfairly in making the additional checks they 
did here.
While I can understand that Mr S thinks that the checks simply sought repetition of 
information already provided, these checks were not simply limited to the answers that he 
gave in the telephone call of 14 June 2022. Having reviewed the banks file notes, I can see 
that not everything which was being checked would have been apparent during the call with 
Mr S. While it would not be appropriate to set out the specific nature of the security checks, I 
am satisfied that reasonable additional checks were being carried out. 
The delay caused by these checks lasted for three business days. And I recognise that this 
will have been inconvenient for Mr S. But I have to be fair to both sides here and, having 
seen the checks Santander was making, I think three days was a reasonable and 
proportionate time for these to take.
Mr S wanted to have a clearer idea of what the process was going to be. I think that is 
understandable, particularly given that he might wish to make further similar payments. He 
was not given a clear idea of how long the delay would last. But Santander are entitled to 
make checks like these before making a payment. After the final call was made, the block 
was lifted, and after three working days Mr Ss payment was processed. I think that this was 
reasonable, and so I dont think that the bank got anything wrong in the way that it dealt with 
the payment. It was not able to give a clear timetable, because of the nature of these 
checks. But it kept to a reasonable timescale. The bank has paid him £100 to reflect any 
inconvenience caused by not being able to tell him how long the delay would last, which I 
think is more than fair in relation to that issue.
While I can understand that Mr S wanted a clearer idea of how long things would take, I think 
that the checks were reasonable and carried out in a reasonable manner. In the 
circumstances, I dont think that the bank got anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman