DRN-2945214
The complaint
Miss C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited increased the price for her motor 
insurance policy from the quote she had accepted. She wants a refund and compensation.
What happened
Miss C said she applied for a policy online with Admiral and was quoted a premium of 
£59.03 a month. The premium she actually paid was £190.55 a month. But Miss C later 
found that the named driver, her sister, hadnt been included on the policy as Miss C 
expected. Miss C said she wouldnt have accepted the quote if she had known the named 
driver wasnt included. 
Admiral agreed that its agent should have noted the named driver hadnt been included 
when Miss C said her sister had two motoring convictions. It paid Miss C £50 compensation 
and said it would have indemnified the named driver if there had been a claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy documents explained who was covered. She thought it was for Miss C to check the 
details were correct and tell Admiral if there were any errors.
Miss C replied that she thought shed been charged extra because she had added her sister 
to the policy. She said she had contacted Admiral to discuss her online quote and said she 
wanted to add her sister.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has explained to Miss C that the premium she paid for her years cover was based 
on her details alone and was correct at the time. I can see from Admirals contact notes that 
the premium quoted to Miss C in her webchat was over £2,000. I can see that this premium 
is set out in her policy schedule. So I think Admiral gave Miss C clear information about what 
she would have to pay for her years cover. 
I havent seen material evidence to show that Miss C was quoted £59.03 by Admiral for her 
policy. Miss C has provided a line of text in which this figure is included. I dont disbelieve 
Miss Cs account. But this document doesnt have any further details that show that it was a 
quote for the same policy provided by Admiral. So I dont think I can rely on it. 
The policy schedule and certificate also clearly set out that only Miss C was covered. Miss C 
first told Admiral she thought shed included the named driver in her online application, but 
Admiral said she hadnt done this. But it agreed that when she contacted it to discuss the 
quote its agent should have noted that the named driver wasnt on the policy after Miss C 
mentioned her previous claims.
Miss C later said shed initiated a webchat with Admiral to get a quote with her sister added. 
But I havent seen evidence of this in Admirals contact notes. I think Miss C presumed that 
her sister had already been added in the online application.  
So Admiral sent Miss C her policy documents clearly stating the premium and who was 
covered, Miss C alone. I think it was for Miss C to read her policy documents to ensure that 
they were correct. But I cant see that she complained to Admiral about her policy, or noted 
that it didnt include her sister, during the policy year. 
Miss C obtained a recent quote from Admiral that was in the region of the quote she said she 
was quoted online two years earlier. But, as Admiral and our investigator have explained, the 
way that premiums are calculated and priced changes daily. A lower quote obtained now 
doesnt mean that Miss C was incorrectly charged two years ago. And so I dont require 
Admiral to pay Miss C any refunds of her premium. 
So, to conclude, I cant see that Admiral has made any errors, apart from not following up 
the mention of Miss Cs sister in the webchat. It paid Miss C £50 compensation for this. I 
think that was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. And I think 
Admiral fairly told Miss C that her sister would have been indemnified if there had been a 
claim. So I cant see that this error caused Miss C any loss. And I dont require Admiral to 
pay Miss C any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman