DRN-3567531
The complaint
Mr A has complained about an entry that Loans 2 Go Limited made on his credit file. 
What happened
In December 2020 Loans 2 Go provided Mr A with a loan of £1,000. The loan was repayable 
over 18 months with monthly repayments of £228.56. The APR was 1,013.2 % and the total 
amount repayable was £4,114.08.
Mr A complained that Loans 2 Go had recorded on his credit file that hed borrowed 
£4,114.08. 
Loans 2 Go explained that interest on the loan is front loaded, which means that all the 
interest which will become payable over the term of a loan is added at the beginning of the 
loan term. It said that if he repaid the loan early, he would be entitled to a rebate of interest. 
It also offered him the option of just repaying the principal amount of £1,000 if he repaid the 
loan by the end of February 2021.
Mr A referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold it. She didnt think Loans 2 
Go had treated Mr A unfairly. 
As Mr A didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Loans 2 Go has done anything wrong. So, I wont be upholding 
this complaint. I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about this matter. 
I do think its worthwhile saying here though that were not the industry regulator, so its not 
for us to say how a business like Loans 2 Go should charge interest, or to punish it if 
somethings gone wrong. My role in relation to a complaint like this is to decide whether 
Loans 2 Go acted fairly and reasonably in Mr As particular case. And, as Ive indicated, from 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Loans 2 Go has done anything wrong. Ill now explain 
why. 
The terms of Mr As loan agreement clearly show that interest would be added to the loan 
upfront by adding it to the amount borrowed. And having done that, Loans 2 Go was able 
to tell Mr A exactly what each of his monthly payments would be over the 18-month loan 
term. As the interest rate was fixed, it was also able to say how much interest Mr A would 
repay over the term of the loan  assuming that he made all the repayments in full on the 
repayment dates listed. So, given all of this, I think Loans 2 Go made it very clear what the 
total amount repayable would be. 
Mr A feels that front loading conflicts with treating customers fairly but I disagree. Front 
loading of interest is generally regarded as fair provided that a rebate is offered for early 
settlement. Loans 2 Go confirmed that Mr A would be entitled to such a rebate in 
accordance with his statutory rights. Theres no indication from the regulators guidance that 
this conflicts with the principle of treating customers fairly.
Mr A is unhappy that Loans 2 Go recorded the total amount payable on his credit file, rather 
than just the £1,000 he borrowed. I dont think Loans 2 Go has done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Credit files are used by lenders and other account providers to help them decide whether 
they want to do business with a customer. So its important that credit files accurately record 
a persons financial commitments because other lenders may rely on that information to 
make decisions about whether to lend to them. 
Although in this case the sum Mr A borrowed was £1,000, the amount of money he agreed 
to repay to Loans 2 Go was significantly more than that. By signing the loan agreement, he 
committed himself financially to the higher, full payment amount. And he agreed to a fixed 
monthly payment which included interest. 
Im satisfied that Loans 2 Go acted fairly in recording the full amount payable on Mr As 
credit file. If they had recorded the loan account balance as being only £1,000, that wouldnt 
have been accurate. And it would have given other lenders a misleading impression.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman