DRN-4053505
The complaint
Mr S complains that QIC Europe Ltd have provided a poor standard of service when dealing 
with his claim regarding a leak, initially offered an inadequate settlement, and failed to 
provide alternative accommodation, and offered inadequate compensation. 
What happened
Mr S held a buildings and contents insurance policy with QIC. 
On 27 July 2022 he had a leak in his bathroom which resulted in the kitchen ceiling 
collapsing. 
QIC advised that Mr S would need to pay for his own trace and access and repair to the 
leak, and they would then assess any related damage. 
Mr S had the plumbing repair completed and QIC sent a surveyor out on 3 August. 
Mr S says the surveyor was rude and dismissive didnt check the walls, joists, fixtures, 
appliances and sockets and following the visit he wasnt happy with the settlement. 
Mr S says that he and his pregnant wife had to move out because they were unable to use 
the kitchen, and that it took too long to resolve. He felt that alternative accommodation 
should have been offered. 
QIC sent out a further surveyor on 25 November to consider Mr Ss complaint and his claim 
that alternative accommodation was necessary.  The surveyor identified that minor work 
could have been undertaken earlier to ensure that Mr S had access to cooking facilities, and 
he added several items to the scope of works. So, Mr Ss complaint was partially upheld. A 
revised settlement for repairs was agreed and although QIC didnt accept that alternative 
accommodation was necessary they agreed that they could have done more to ensure that 
Mr S had adequate cooking facilities, and so they offered Mr S £250 compensation. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ss complaint. Following our investigators view 
being issued, QIC offered Mr S a further £300 for additional food costs during the period that 
he didnt have a cooker or hob. The investigator thought that the total offer was fair.  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
In this case I have to consider whether QIC have decided the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
I have reviewed all the evidence including the surveyors reports, and Mr Ss submissions 
about the impact on him and his wife. 
Im intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint, but I dont agree with all of his complaint points and 
I will explain why.  
Scope of works settlement
The surveyor visited shortly after the incident and validated the claim, agreeing that 
settlement should be offered.  However, it wasnt until the second surveyor visited on 25 
November that the scope of works was correctly amended and agreed. Several items had 
been missed by the first surveyor, including reimbursement for the trace and access, the 
faulty hob, damage to wall unit doors, impact damage to the PVC internal window sill, a 
water damaged downlight, a water damaged 13 amp double socket, decoration costs and 
damage to some bathroom fittings owing to the trace and access. 
So although the settlement figure for the work was eventually agreed after the second visit,   
the inadequate assessment and settlement offer following the first surveyors visit meant that 
Mr S was unable to get the repairs completed, and so the work was delayed from 3 August 
to 28 November, on which date the payment of £2,879.55 costs and £450 trace and access 
was made available to Mr S. 
Alternative accommodation
In the policy terms and conditions it says:
We will pay up to £100000 for:
The reasonable and necessary costs for alternative accommodation for you and your family 
and
Any rent which you have to pay 
If you cannot stay in your home because your home has become unfit for living following 
loss or damage that is insured by this section.  
Mr S has argued that as the house didnt have cooking facilities due to damage to the cooker 
and the possibility of falling debris from the kitchen ceiling, the house was uninhabitable and 
he should have been provided with alternative accommodation. 
Ive thought about this, and about makes a house uninhabitable. I dont consider that having 
limited cooking facilities would make a house unfit for living in. Mr S had heating, power, and 
washing facilities in the property. The bedrooms and living rooms were unaffected by the 
damage, and only half of the kitchen ceiling had fallen down. I accept that he didnt have the 
full range of cooking facilities available  - only having a microwave, kettle and toaster, but I 
dont think that this makes the house unfit to live in, which is the requirement in the policy 
wording. 
However, I do think that not having proper cooking facilities was an inconvenience that it was 
fair to expect QIC to compensate Mr S for whilst he was waiting to have the repairs done in 
line with the recommendations of the second surveyor. This would have covered additional 
food costs over and above what Mr S would ordinarily have spent on food, to compensate 
for having to buy more convenience type foods. 
Following our investigation, I can see that QIC have offered Mr S an extra £300 in respect of 
this  which they have quoted as £100 per month for three months.
I appreciate that Mr S would like to have cooked and eaten fresh food every day as this was 
what he was used to, and he has said that he couldnt live off microwave meals. I agree that 
it wouldnt be ideal to live off microwave meals for a long period of time, but there is always 
some level of inconvenience and compromise when a claim is being sorted out, and I dont 
accept that it isnt possible to cook some fresh meals and ingredients using a microwave, combined with using some fruit and vegetables that dont require cooking, Im satisfied that 
providing Mr S with a food allowance would have been sufficient to support him to have a 
satisfactory level of food and nutrition during the period while the claim was being sorted out. 
The period for which a food allowance would be required was from the first surveyors visit 
until the second surveyors report, so I think that £300 is fair for this period, as it only covers 
possible additional costs.  
         
Failings in the service provided 
The second surveyor who came to the property assessed the cooking facilities. He said that 
the hood and oven were undamaged but the hob was faulty with the rear back ring not 
functioning due to water ingress or impact damage. He said that as these hadnt been 
checked sooner, Mr S hadnt known if they were safe and so whilst in his view the property 
wasnt uninhabitable as some cooking facilities were available, the delay in getting this 
checked had caused some distress and inconvenience. 
In addition, Mr S hadnt been offered the food allowance from the outset and the first 
surveyor had failed to properly complete the scope of works for the repairs. This has meant 
that Mr S had to complain delaying the resolution of the claim by around 17 weeks. For the 
inconvenience during that period, QIC have offered £250. 
I dont think this figure is sufficient. Mr S shouldnt have had to complaint in order to get a 
proper assessment of his claim, and the second surveyors report identifies a number of 
shortcomings which would have left him out of pocket. In addition, if the appliances had been 
tested by the first surveyor, Mr S would not have had the inconvenience of cooking on 
reduced facilities for 17 weeks, which he says was stressful. 
So, in view of that, I propose to increase the award for distress and inconvenience to £450. 
which more adequately reflects the time and inconvenience that it has cost Mr S.  
Mr S has raised that his wife was pregnant and that the lack cooking facilities had an impact 
on her. When we look at making awards for distress and inconvenience, we can only make 
awards to eligible complainants under 2.7 of the DISP Rules. In this case Mr S is the sole 
policyholder and so he is the only consumer who is an eligible complainant under those 
rules. I appreciate that Mr Ss wife also lived at the property, but as she isnt a joint 
policyholder, I cant consider the impact on her in terms of distress and inconvenience. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Ss complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received comments from both parties and Ive taken these into account when making my 
final decision.  
Mr S has again raised the question of why I cant take into account any distress and 
inconvenience of his wife when making my award. I have already explained this  I have to 
apply the rules that we have for making awards and I dont have the power to change them  
and so when we are considering a complaint we cant take into account any inconvenience 
caused to anyone who is not an eligible complainant for the purposes of our rules. 
The second issue raised by Mr S is that he has nowhere to prepare fruit and vegetables. I 
consider that at least part of the kitchen and certainly other parts of the house are usable for these purposes, and the additional food allowance would have enabled Mr S to purchase pre 
prepared vegetables if required. I appreciate this is not ideal, but I think that the £450 I have 
recommended for distress and inconvenience reflects this.   
Finally, Mr S has raised that QIC have offered £300 food allowance for three weeks, but that 
the period is actually 17 weeks. I have raised this with QIC and they have agreed to increase 
the food allowance to £400, which I think is fair. 
QIC have accepted all my other findings and recommendations.
And so, in light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings 
Putting things right
In order to put things QIC should pay Mr S:
The settlement figure offered of £2879.55 plus £450 for the trace and access
The £400 QIC have offered for additional food costs
£450 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mistakes in assessing the 
claim properly at the earliest opportunity and testing the appliances to ensure that Mr 
S had access to better cooking facilities.    
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to put 
things right as outlined above.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman