DRN-4438847
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Shawbrook Bank Limited dealt with her loan account.
What happened
Miss M says she took out a Shawbrook loan in March 2023. She says she asked for the 
direct debit repayment date to be moved to the first of the month to take account of her 
wages payment date. Miss M says Shawbrook moved the first payment but not subsequent 
payment dates which has caused inconvenience and problems. She also complains about 
the interest charged for the first months repayment.
Shawbrook says it told Miss M why it was charging an extra days interest when it moved the 
payment date to 1 April 2023 and didnt make a mistake by applying it.
Miss M brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought Miss M had been told why 
the first repayment was slightly higher. The investigator thought Miss M had clearly asked 
Shawbrook to move the direct debit to the first of the month which it had not done. And that 
Miss M was caused distress and inconvenience as a result. He recommended Shawbrook 
pay Miss M £150 compensation and move the payment date to the first of the month.
Miss M accepts that view, but Shawbrook hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
I have looked carefully at Miss Ms complaint form to us which I can see Shawbrook has a 
copy of and must be aware of. That form and the complaint makes clear what Miss Ms 
complaint is about, namely the charging of extra interest for the first payment and the 
problems in changing the payment date to the first of the month. I say that as I dont think 
Shawbrook has addressed that second issue in its final response letter, but Im satisfied 
Miss M made clear that was her main complaint and Shawbrook has had some seven 
months to investigate that issue. I can see Shawbrook says the payment dates should be the 
first of the month and Im satisfied that I can make a decision on this complaint for the 
reasons I have explained.
I have listened to the telephone calls between the parties which took place when the loan 
was taken out and applied for. Im satisfied Miss M asked to move the date of the loan 
repayment/direct debit to the first of the month and explained that was due to her receiving 
her wages on the last day of the month. It is clear from the call she was relieved when 
Shawbrook agreed to move the loan repayment date to the first of the month. I dont think 
there can be any confusion that Miss M wanted that arrangement for the loan duration.
During the call Im satisfied Shawbrook told Miss M that as a result of the repayment date 
being moved there would be a slight increase in the interest charged that month which I think 
Miss M agreed to and understood. So, it follows I dont think Shawbrook made a mistake by 
making that charge and can see Miss M no longer takes issue with that.
The key part of the complaint is that Shawbrook didnt amend the repayment date after May 
2023. I am satisfied Miss M was caused inconvenience and distress by that mistake. I 
accept what she has told us, that she needed to make alternative arrangements with her 
finances to make sure the direct debit is taken on occasions before she is paid. Im also 
satisfied that Miss M has tried to resolve this issue but without success. I dont think 
Shawbrook has provided any account statements which provide a contrary view of the 
repayment dates and so I accept what Miss M says about that issue.
For those reasons I am satisfied Shawbrook should pay £150 compensation which I think is 
fair and reasonable and fairly considers that this issue has gone on for about half a year 
without being resolved.
Putting things right
Shawbrook should pay £150 compensation and amend the repayment date as it said it 
would to the first of every month, for every month.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
Miss M £150 compensation and move her loan repayment date to the first of the month.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman