DRN-1695996
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Lowell Financial Limited's handling of his loan account.
What happened
Mr P took a fixed term 'doorstep' loan out through a loan provider, T. This was subsequently
acquired by Lowell which is now entitled to collect the outstanding loan. The loan was for
£500, with added interest and costs of £410, payable over 52 months. So, Mr P was required 
to repay £910 in total at £17.50 a month. Mr P's loan was collected from him at home. And 
he had a payment book to record his instalments.
Mr P made a complaint to T back in 2013, when its agent failed to call to collect his
payments. His payment book was taken away by T to update his account. But he's told us
that he never got it back. This is where the problems with his loan appear to have started.
The last payment Mr P made was in January 2014. Without his payment book and with no
attendance by T's agent, Mr P didn't know the status of his account and so didn't pay
anything further. Mr P had suffered a bereavement around the end of 2013 and this also had 
a bearing on the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P's account went into default and demand letters were sent to him by T. Mr P says that
he didn't receive these. Lowell bought the rights to Mr P's loan in November 2015. Mr P says 
that he wasn't made aware of this, although letters were sent to him.
At the time the outstanding amount due on his loan was £672.50. Mr P contacted T in 2019
to make a complaint. He was unhappy with the default recorded on his file and that his loan
had been transferred to Lowell. He was also still concerned that he'd not had his payment
book back.
T responded to that complaint detailing the steps that it had taken to contact Mr P. It also
gave details of the alternative methods of payment it had told him about. T didn't uphold his
complaint.
Mr P also complained to Lowell. And that's the complaint I'm dealing with here.
His complaint repeats a number of his concerns surrounding his treatment by T. Additionally,
Mr P was also unhappy about not being transferred to a manager when he asked.
In essence, what Mr P wants is for the loan to be taken back from Lowell by T and for the
default to be removed. He thinks he's paid more than T had recorded. But without his
payment book, he can't be sure that T's records are correct.
Our investigator thought that Mr P's complaint should be upheld. He didn't think that Lowell
had shown conclusively what remained due on Mr P's account. So he said that Mr P should
only have to pay back the sum that he remembered being outstanding of around £280.
Lowell didn't agree. So the matter came to me for a decision. In advance of this final 
decision, I sent the parties two provisional decisions. In the first I said that I intended to require that Lowell deduct £200 from the amount due, to reflect the problems that Mr P had 
with T.
Lowell responded to me to say that it didn't agree. It sent me an extract from its debt
purchase agreement with T which showed that it didn't take any responsibility for the actions
of T prior to it taking ownership of the debt.
Mr P responded to say that he still didn't think it was fair for his failure to pay the loan to be
recorded as a default on his credit record. And he didn't think that T had told Lowell that the
debt was disputed.
In light of those responses we contacted T again. Given the time elapsed since it sold this
loan, it had few records still available. But it does appear that back in 2014, it did close
its local office in Mr P's area. Mr P has told us that before it closed, he called the local office
and a manager came out to see him. He says he was told doorstep collections would be 
restarted. They also took his payment book to update it. But he never got it back.
So he went to the local office to then find it had closed down. He called T's head office
which confirmed the closure and told him all correspondence would need to go through
them. They said they'd sort out his payment book but never did. Mr P says he sent two
payments by cheque. But he later 'stopped' those cheques as he hadn't received his
payment book.
In light of these responses, I issue a second provisional decision in which I amended the 
proposed redress to require that Lowell arrange for T to repurchase Mr P's loan. But I didn't 
think that it had acted incorrectly to record a default on Mr P's credit record. 
Mr P responded and let me know again that he hadn't received any default notice from 
Lowell or T. So he doesn't consider the default to be valid given there's a dispute about the 
debt. He's asked the credit reference agency to record that the debt is disputed on his file. 
He's also said that when the manager came out from T, he didn't make a payment as he 
didn't know who he was. But they did reach an agreement that a new agent would be 
appointed and door-step collections would re-start.
Lowell didn't respond to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have decided to uphold this complaint in 
part.
Having taken into account the responses to my provisional decisions, I don't intend to 
change my findings or proposed redress from that set out in my second provisional decision. 
I have included the findings from both my first and second provisional decisions below. And 
these are incorporated into and form part of this final decision.
I appreciate that Mr P still disputes this debt. But the resolution that I have proposed will 
allow him to take that up with the original lender, T. I appreciate that he feels strongly that 
because the debt is disputed, it shouldn't have been recorded as a default on his credit 
record.
But for the reasons I've set out below, I don't agree. It's apparent to me that, despite part of it 
being in dispute, Mr P still owes a significant proportion of this debt to Lowell. And he hasn't 
repaid that. So it was correct for Lowell to record it as a default. That said, in my findings, I have made a suggestion as to what I think the most appropriate outcome should be with 
regard to Mr P's loan. That is to reduce it by £200 to reflect the trouble and upset he's been 
caused. But I shall have to leave it to T to take that up with Mr P when it has taken back this 
loan account from Lowell.
 My first provisional findings
'Having looked at the evidence provided by both Mr P and Lowell, I can see how confusion
has crept in for all the parties to this loan account. And I've found this all stems from T's
failure to return Mr P's payment book to him back in 2013. The type of loan in question here
was sold by T at Mr P's home. And I can appreciate why Mr P was reliant on his payment
book and attendance by T's agent to collect the repayments. I appreciate that T has said that 
it provided Mr P with alternative payment arrangements. But given the bereavement he
suffered at the time back in 2013, and the failure of the agent to attend regularly, the account 
has ended up going into default.
Having considered the evidence, I've found that T more than likely didn't return the payment
book to Mr P. And I appreciate how this has led to a series of events whereby Mr P's loan
has been acquired by Lowell. So whilst I don't think Mr P has been treated entirely fairly by
T, for which Lowell must now take responsibility, Mr P does still owe the balance of the loan - 
£672.50 - a sum which I'm satisfied is correct. Mr P could have made alternative
arrangements to pay this, it's just that he didn't have his payment book and so was uncertain 
what was still outstanding.
I have sympathy with Mr P's position, given this wasn't the only loan Mr P and his partner
had. And the payment book and attendance of T's agent was the method that he used to
manage what he needed to pay. That's the attraction of this type of loan for a lot of
customers. And so I think that Mr P was put at a disadvantage as a result of those
arrangements no longer being provided by T.
Lowell has taken over the loan from T and accordingly has answered each of the points that
Mr P complains about in its final response to his complaint. In some instances it refers to the 
response already given by T. But for the purposes of considering this complaint, I intend to 
wrap up all of Mr P's concerns in one outcome.
When Mr P came to deal with his account in 2019, he was upset that on asking to speak to a 
senior manager, he was put through to the complaints department. When he was then put
back to the original call handlers, they couldn't put him through to a manager. I appreciate
the frustration that Mr P experienced here, but I don't think that Lowell did anything wrong in
that regard. Given his upset, the most appropriate team to deal with his concerns were the
complaints department. And senior managers aren't always immediately available in a lot of
financial institutions. So that was the best way for him to be helped at the time.
Having looked at T's record of the payments made by Mr P, it appears that over the first
couple of years he had the loan, he paid a total of £237.50. That's why Lowell has said that
he had £672.50 outstanding of the original debt of £910 when it was transferred.
As I've said above, Mr P was understandably reliant on his payment book and the
attendance of T's agent to pay his loan. And I do think something went wrong here back in
2013/14. T appears to have lost the payment book and it no longer sent its agent round to
Mr P's house to make the collections. This left Mr P unable to appropriately manage his
loan. I think that following his bereavement, Mr P will have been vulnerable at the time. And
that T could have done more to help him. Matters have then spiralled into Mr P defaulting on 
the repayment of his loan and its subsequent acquisition by Lowell.Taking all of this into account, overall, I don't think Mr P has been treated fairly. I accept that
he defaulted on his loan and that a record of this needs to remain with the credit agencies.
That's an accurate record of what happened. So I won't be requiring that his default be
removed from his credit record. But I also think that some responsibility needs to be taken by 
Lowell, as owner of the loan, for T's actions which contributed to Mr P defaulting.
I've therefore provisionally decided that the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is 
for it to be upheld in part. I intend to require that in compensation for the upset and
inconvenience that Mr P has been caused, a proportion of the interest and costs added to
the original loan is removed.
The service offered for this relatively high interest loan was a doorstep payment service. And 
I've found that this ultimately wasn't provided. So, I think that a £200 reduction is fair and 
reasonable. This will mean that the outstanding loan balance due from Mr P will be £472.50. 
Mr P will then need to make arrangements with Lowell to repay that balance on an
affordable repayment schedule.'
My second provisional findings
'Having taken the parties' responses into account, I've reconsidered my intended award on
this complaint. I still think that the complaint should be upheld in part. But, given the further
information I've received, the award that I was going to make is no longer fair to Lowell.
I've attached a copy of my provisional decision. My findings in that decision remain the
same. And are incorporated into this decision, save that I no longer intend to hold Lowell
responsible for the failings of T in the way that it dealt with Mr P's loan before it was acquired 
by Lowell.
Before I got Lowell's response, I had thought that Lowell had taken on both the benefit and
the burden of T's loan to Mr P. That meant that I thought that it should be responsible for
everything that T had done before the loan was sold to it. But the loan purchase
agreement with T specifically says that Lowell do not take on any such obligations. So it
wouldn't be fair for me to require that Lowell reduce the debt by £200 as I had intended.
Instead, I intend to require that Lowell approach T and arrange for it to buy back Mr P's loan.
Lowell has told me that it's customary in circumstances where there is a dispute as to the
amount of the debt due, that it will arrange such a buy-back. So I think that's the fair
outcome to this complaint.
As I said in my first provisional decision, I don't think that T handled Mr P's loan
appropriately. So the full amount shouldn't be collected. I've said that I think an appropriate
reduction is £200, although I can't, as part of this decision on a complaint against Lowell,
bind T to that. I would, however, expect T to note my thoughts in that respect and act
accordingly.
I appreciate that Lowell may be unhappy that I'm upholding this complaint at all. But I've
found that there is a valid dispute as to the amount that may be collected on this loan. Mr T's 
recollection and T's confirmation that the local office had closed reinforce my concerns that 
there was an error with returning his payment book. Given the type of loan he had, I can 
understand why Mr P took the actions he did, although that doesn't mean that he should 
have stopped paying his loan entirely.
Up until now, I don't think that Mr P's concerns about the loss of his payment book have
been addressed sufficiently. So I can't say that it would be fair and reasonable for Lowell to
collect the full outstanding debt from him. And whilst Lowell have correctly pointed out that Ishouldn't be making it responsible for T's failings, I do think there was more it should have
done here to address Mr P's concerns about his treatment by T - in particular whether the
loan should be collected in the full amount claimed.
So it remains that when this loan was originally acquired by Lowell, the amount was in
dispute. And I've found that there are fair and reasonable grounds for that loan amount to be 
revisited. The best way for that to happen is for the loan to go back to T and for it to deal with 
it accordingly.
I appreciate that Mr P will be disappointed to hear that I don't think the default recorded
against his credit record for this loan should be removed. Regardless of the actions of T
before the loan was transferred to Lowell, Mr P did stop making payments and cancelled a
couple of cheques that he gave T. I understand that he did this because he was concerned
that the payment book had not been returned. And so he didn't know how much was due.
And as I've said in my first provisional decision, I don't think that T treated him fairly in that
respect.
But it remains that there were alternative ways that Mr P could have repaid this loan, and he
didn't take advantage of those. He clearly still owed a significant amount. And he should
have made payments at least up to the amount that he thought he owed. Stopping the
cheques he had sent to T wasn't really appropriate. So having defaulted on his repayments,
it's only fair that his credit record should still reflect that.
Once Mr P is to satisfy his loan in full, taking into account any reduction that T may agree to
reflect the poor service that Mr P received, I would expect his credit record to be updated to
show that the debt was satisfied.'
My final decision
I have decided to uphold this complaint in part and I require that Lowell Financial Limited 
make arrangements with the original lender to buy back Mr P's loan from it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman