DRN-2190515
The complaint
Mr B complains about what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has done to put things right 
following his complaint that it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr B complained that he was mis-sold PPI alongside three loans.
RBS investigated his complaint and agreed they should be upheld. RBS worked out the 
compensation for each of the three loans would be:
£3,627.28,
£194.50, and
£5,045.95.
This adds up to £8,867.73 in total.
But Mr B had previously been in a protected trust deed. This is an informal alternative to 
bankruptcy (or sequestration) under Scots law. It meant Mr B hadnt needed to pay 
everything hed owed RBS. RBS says that, following the trust deed, Mr B didnt need to 
repay £19,680.28. And so RBS proposes to pay the compensation for mis-selling PPI 
towards the amount Mr B didnt need to repay following the trust deed.
Mr B doesnt agree with this. Hed been discharged from his trust deed. He says that 
following recent court judgments he thinks this means he should be paid the money directly.
An adjudicator looked at this but didnt think that what RBS had done was unfair.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has agreed that Mr Bs complaints that he was mis-sold PPI should be upheld. So the 
main question remaining for me to decide is whether its fair for RBS to pay the 
compensation towards the amount that was left unpaid after Mr Bs trust deed ended.
In doing so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In Mr Bs case, the relevant law is Scots law. There have been a number of recent cases 
looking at what happens to PPI compensation following the successful completion of a trust 
deed. 
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court 
held that following the completion of that trust deed, the debtor was discharged from his 
debts. In that case, PPI compensation was paid to the consumer rather than to the 
discharged former trustee of the estate for the benefit of the other creditors.
And following this reasoning, the Inner House of the Court of Session concluded  in 
Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56  that a business couldnt use the 
consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged when the 
trust deed came to an end: there was no debt to set-off.
However, following this judgment the business sought instead to set aside the discharge of 
the debtors trust deed. In Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106, the 
Outer House of the Court of Session said that if the trustee made a mistake (a material or 
substantial error), then the court could set aside the consumers discharge. And the failure 
by the trustee to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the consumers creditors was 
clearly a mistake: if the trustee had known about the PPI claims, it was inconceivable that 
the trustee would have granted the debtors discharge until that claim was realised as an 
asset for the benefit of the debtors creditors. And as such, the remedy sought by the 
business would normally be granted by the court as a matter of course.
That said, reduction is a discretionary remedy. The court may withhold the remedy in 
exceptional circumstances, when there is some very cogent reason for doing so which 
would make it inconvenient and unjust to grant reduction. In that particular case, the court 
concluded it would be unduly harsh on the consumer to set aside the discharge. This took 
into account a number of factors  including the time since the discharge, the impact the 
litigation had had on the debtor, and the size of the compensation compared to the legal fees 
likely to have been incurred.
Ive thought about all this when looking at Mr Bs complaint.
Given what Ive said above, and assuming the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly 
are the same as in this case, a court wouldnt allow RBS to set the PPI compensation 
against the amount left following the trust deed unless the court first set aside Mr Bs 
discharge from his trust deed. The court might decide not to grant this. 
But while Ive taken all of this into account, I must determine Mr Bs complaint by reference 
to whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint.
In the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, I think it would be fair for RBS to pay the 
compensation for mis-selling PPI towards the amount Mr B didnt repay following the 
completion of his trust deed. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr B didnt repay at least £19,680.28 that he owed RBS following 
the successful completion of his trust deed. RBS cant now chase him for his money.
But RBS has now worked out the compensation for mis-selling PPI was £8,867.73. This is a 
lot less than the amount Mr B didnt need to repay following the trust deed.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, the compensation I award is intended to put the consumer as far as possible in the 
position theyd be in if they hadnt bought the policy. The cost of the PPI was only part of 
what Mr B borrowed  so I think even if Mr B hadnt bought the PPI its likely hed still have 
entered the trust deed. But hed have owed less. And thats the position RBSs offer puts him 
in. And if Mr B complained about the PPI before his trust deed completed, RBS would have 
been entitled to deduct this compensation from the amount it claimed as part of the 
arrangement. Or it could have been paid to the trustee for the benefit of Mr Bs other 
creditors. Either way, Mr B would not have received this money directly.
Ive considered Mr Bs further comments. He says these debts were legally written off. But 
this doesnt change my conclusion. RBS may not be able to chase Mr B for this money  but 
for the reasons Ive explained I still think its fair for RBS to take this amount into account 
when working out fair compensation for the sale of the PPI policy. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
In all the circumstances, I think what Royal Bank of Scotland plc has done is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that its fair for Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
the compensation for mis-selling PPI towards the amount Mr B didnt need to repay following 
his trust deed. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman