The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a personal injury 
claim without a proper investigation. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident in July 2019. Mr S says he drove his vehicle in to the rear 
of a third-party vehicle after it stopped suddenly. Mr S agreed he was to blame for the 
accident and Admiral arranged for repairs to both vehicles. 
In September 2019, Admiral wrote to Mr S to advise him that the third-party had made a 
personal injury claim and that it would agree liability for the claim. Mr S complained because 
he didnt think Admiral had properly investigated the claim and hadnt gathered medical 
evidence.
Mr S says the accident was at low speed and neither vehicle had its airbags deployed. He 
says his vehicle is small in comparison to the third-party vehicle and the damage was 
superficial. He also said the third-party driver didnt display any injuries when he spoke to 
him after the accident. Mr S is unhappy about the potential impact to his premium and no 
claims bonus (NCB) because of Admirals decision. 
Admiral referred to its terms and conditions when it responded to the complaint  which says 
the insurer can settle a claim on Mr S behalf. Admiral said it had considered the likely 
position of the courts, as well as the likelihood and cost of challenging the claim. Admiral 
explained that it considered the value of the damage caused and was persuaded that the 
impact of the collision was enough to cause soft tissue injury.
Mr S asked this service to step in as he didnt agree with Admirals basis for settling the 
claim. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and concluded that Admiral acted fairly 
and in accordance with the policy terms. The investigator explained that Admiral had relied 
on the report from the approved repairer to measure the extent of the damage and didnt just 
look at the value of the repairs. 
Mr S wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I share the investigators opinion and Ill 
explain why.
My role isnt to determine liability  thats something only a court can consider. I can only 
look at whether Admiral has conducted a reasonable investigation when making its own 
decision  I think it did.
DRN-1585949The terms of Mr S policy say Admiral can defend or settle a claim on his behalf. This 
essentially allows Admiral to settle the claim in a way it chooses and it doesnt need Mr S 
agreement to do so. This is a common term in motor insurance policies. Insurers are entitled 
to consider whether it is reasonable to challenge a claim and the likely chances of defending 
a claim in court. But insurers are expected to reasonably investigate a claim and consider 
the available evidence before making a decision.
Admiral says it took in to account that Mr S was found liable for the accident and that he lost 
control before skidding and driving in to the rear of the third-party vehicle. Given this, Admiral 
thinks it wouldve been difficult to dispute the personal injury claim in court. 
Admiral also said it considered the damage caused to both vehicles and that the level of 
damage made it think that there was enough force to cause injury to the third party. The 
insurer says its likely the speed Mr S vehicle was travelling was more than 5-10mph and 
that it was likely that the third party suffered a soft tissue injury.
I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably when investigating the claim. Admiral took into 
account the testimony Mr S and the third party provided when the claim was reported to 
determine liability. And it considered the report from the approved repairer to establish the 
likely force of the impact based on the damage sustained to both vehicles. So it seems to 
have considered all the evidence available. And Mr S had already been found liable for the 
accident, so I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to have accepted liability for the 
personal injury claim too. 
Mr S doesnt think the impact from the accident was enough to cause injury and he says the 
third party seemed injury free immediately after the accident. But I dont think its unusual for 
personal injuries to not be immediately evident following a collision. I think Admiral reviewed 
the circumstances and decided to settle the claim to avoid further costs  which it is entitled 
to do. So I cant say that Admiral has done anything wrong by doing so. 
Mr S is unhappy about the impact the personal injury claim and Admirals decision to settle 
may have had on his premium and NCB. But Mr S was already found liable for the accident. 
So its most likely that there wouldve been an impact to his premium and NCB anyway. And 
even if Admirals decision to settle the personal injury claim did affect Mr S premium and 
NCB, for the reasons above, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly when it decided to settle the 
claim.   
Mr S recently queried the total sum of the personal injury claim, which he discovered when 
he received his renewal documentation. He says Admiral didnt notify him when the claim 
was eventually settled. It seem Admiral hasnt had an opportunity to respond to this concern 
first, so Mr S would need to raise this with the insurer in the first instance. As our investigator 
said in her view, any impact of the claim value to Mr S premium will be dependent on the 
insurers pricing structure. 
Ive checked with Admiral, and its told me that the figure in Mr S renewal documents 
(£10,851.05) represents the total value of the claim  which includes the repairs, hire car 
cost, solicitors fees and all aspects of the personal injury claim. 
In summary, I dont think Admiral failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised its 
discretion unfairly when deciding to settle the personal injury claim as its done.
My final decision 
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman