DRN-3347623
The complaint
Mr W doesnt think it is fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce an outstanding balance it says he owed. 
What happened
Mr W took a loan out with RBS in 2006. PPI was sold to him alongside that loan. His loan 
account reference ended in 174.
In or around 2010, it appears Mr W ran into some financial difficulties and he granted a trust 
deed to his creditors. It looks as though he may have already paid back the loan at this point 
as it doesnt look as though account 174 was included in the trust deed. However, RBS says 
it made a trust deed claim for £281.49 in respect of a separate account ending 331. It said 
Mr W owed it £281.49 at that time. I havent seen a PPI policy attached to account 331. 
Mr W initially complained to RBS that it had mis-sold PPI to him alongside account 174 in or 
around 2012. I can see that on 3 December 2012, it offered to settle his complaint by paying 
£332.78 as a goodwill gesture. RBS says this payment was not implemented because Mr 
Ws trustee did not return the acceptance form.  
On 12 February 2021, RBS wrote to Mr W to say that it had not received a response to its 
2012 correspondence. It said that if Mr W wanted the offer to be paid to him, he must 
provide his payment account details within 12 weeks from the date of that letter. It said it 
would endeavour to make payment soon, but that payment would be subject to clearance of 
any arrears Mr W had with RBS. In other words, RBS planned to use the PPI compensation 
to reduce any RBS debts Mr W was behind with. This is called offsetting. 
Mr W didnt receive payment from RBS and so he complained to this service. He told us that 
he needed the compensation to pay his utility bills and had run into difficulties without it. RBS 
said the delay in responding to him was because it was finalising its response to a recent 
judgment that was relevant to Mr Ws case. 
On 27 January 2022, RBS wrote to Mr W. It said that it intended to offset Mr W some arrears 
from the compensation. It said that he would only receive a payment if what he owed was 
less than RBSs compensation offer. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and he thought that it was fair for RBS to offset what Mr 
W owed from his PPI compensation. Mr W disagreed with this.  He said that he didnt think 
RBS could offset his compensation unless it related to the same account. 
The matter was passed to me to make a final decision. I asked our adjudicator to clarify 
some information with RBS. RBS told us that it had already offset £248.77 from a different 
account and so there was an outstanding balance on account 331 of £32.72. From what 
RBS told us, it looks as though it intends to offset this £32.72 and pay the remainder of the 
compensation to Mr W. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, relevant regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, relevant codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice as the relevant time. For the purposes of this case, the 
relevant law for me to consider is Scots law.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. I think its fair for 
RBS to offset the outstanding balance, which I understand to be £32.72 from his 
compensation. Ill explain why below. 
There was a recent court judgment in which the circumstances of that case were very 
similar to this complaint. In that case, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt when her trust 
deed came to an end. The case is called Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] 
CSIH 56. And the Supreme Court refused permission to appeal.
However, when the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the 
Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside 
or undo the consumers discharge. This would re-open the trust proceedings and allow it 
to assert its right of set-off.
In this case, the court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit 
of the consumers creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and 
usually would set aside the consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional 
circumstances which would make it inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court 
concluded that there were exceptional circumstances and refused to reverse the 
consumers discharge. It took into account a number of factors, including: the time that had 
passed since the consumers discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the 
protracted litigation; the fact that the outstanding sum was paltry from the businesss 
perspective (and in proportion to the legal fees likely to have been incurred) but not an 
insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that there would be consequences for the 
consumer and no obvious means to alleviate them.
Ive thought about what this judgment means for Mr Ws complaint. On the one-hand, on the 
assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same as those in Mr 
Ws case, RBS couldnt argue it had the right of set-off in court unless the court first set 
aside Mr Ws discharge from the trust deed. I cant say what a court might do in Mr Ws case 
 but its possible it may decide not to do this. 
But my consideration of this case is a broader test of what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case. And in this case, I think it is fair for RBS to use Mr Ws PPI 
compensation to repay the outstanding balance on account 331. 
I say this because when two parties owe each other money, it seems only fair that they each 
pay what they owe. So in this case, if RBS paid what it owed Mr W in PPI compensation, 
hed have to pay some of it back to RBS because there was still an outstanding balance on 
account 331. I accept that when the trust deed came to an end, RBS could no longer recover 
that money from Mr W. But the debt didnt disappear  it just meant RBS couldnt take any 
further action to get that money back. 
It is also the case that if Mr Ws trustee had signed the acceptance form in 2012 before he 
was discharged from the trust deed, then RBS would have been able to assert its right of 
set-off and keep repay the outstanding balance in any event. So taking everything into 
account, I think it is fair for RBS to keep some of Mr Ws compensation to repay the balance 
on account 331. I understand RBS intends to repay the rest of the compensation to Mr W 
directly. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use
some of Mr Ws PPI compensation to repay money owed and left unpaid when his trust deed
came to an end.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman