DRN-1484092
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a Level Term Assurance (LTA) policy 
to him because:
He wasnt told it was optional.
He was led to believe his mortgage wouldnt be agreed without cover.
The policy exclusions werent explained to him so that he could make an informed 
decision.
He wasnt made aware of the specific exclusion relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions.
He was unemployed at the time the policy was taken out and wasnt made aware of 
the exclusions relating to unemployment.
What happened
Mr K took out a mortgage through Barclays which started in January 2008. The mortgage 
was a capital repayment mortgage but had a reserve facility that allowed him to borrow back 
up to the original mortgage amount.
Mr K applied to increase the amount he could borrow in January 2009. This is also when he 
applied for the LTA, having not taken out any cover when the mortgage started in 2008. The 
LTA provided life cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC) for the full amount of borrowing at 
the time of his application for additional borrowing.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint he made. It said the LTA was a suitable 
recommendation to cover the mortgage and additional borrowing Mr K had taken out and 
wasnt a condition of the mortgage as shown by the fact Mr K didnt take it out when the 
mortgage started. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but also didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said he had seen no evidence an LTA was needed for Mr K to get the mortgage. He said 
the sum assured under the LTA matched the full amount of Mr Ks borrowing. He noted that 
the policy provider was aware of his pre-existing medical conditions and that, Mr K having 
had that contact with the policy provider, if the policy wasnt what he wanted he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with it.
The investigator referred to Mr K saying he was unemployed at the time but noted that the 
information in the documents from the time of sale showed he was employed. Mr K didnt 
agree with the investigator. In short he made the following points:
The LTA provided cover of £326,000 but Barclays declined his application for 
additional borrowing.
He didnt need cover for the additional borrowing given he never borrowed that 
money and Barclays shouldve ensured the policy matched his borrowing.
The investigator went back to Barclays with regard to the points raised by Mr K, which hadnt 
been considered in its initial response to the complaint. It confirmed that the additional 
borrowing hadnt been agreed and offered to refund the difference between the premium it said Mr K wouldve paid for the cover he needed and the premium he had actually paid to 
date. It was also willing to pay the difference going forwards rather than Mr K get a new 
policy for the right amount of cover which the provider had indicated would be more 
expensive.
The investigator provided a second opinion in which he said the offer made by Barclays was 
reasonable. He also thought Barclays should pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Barclays agreed with the investigator but Mr K asked for a review by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basis of the complaint has changed during the course of our consideration of the 
complaint with the additional issue of Mr K not actually taking out the additional borrowing 
being something that has subsequently been addressed by Barclays and the investigator. 
Mr K has asked for referral to an ombudsman but hasnt identified what he doesnt now 
agree with. Given this I have addressed all the issues raised by him not just the issue about 
having too much cover as a result of not getting the additional borrowing which Barclays 
offered redress for after referral to our service.
Generally life cover and CIC for a mortgage is considered a suitable recommendation so that 
if the mortgage payer dies or becomes critically ill the mortgage can be paid and their 
partner, dependents or wider family dont then have to worry about having to pay this.
The information I have seen indicates that Mr K had a partner at the time. So life cover and 
CIC to pay off the mortgage if he died or became critically ill would have benefitted his 
partner and avoided the need for her having to possibly sell the property.
So Im satisfied that a policy that provided life cover and CIC was suitable for Mr K. There is 
a potential issue about the policy being a LTA - so the level of cover remains the same 
throughout the term of the mortgage. I say this because the mortgage is a capital repayment 
mortgage so normally would reduce over time. 
I note Mr K was given a quote for a Decreasing Term Assurance (DTA) that wouldve 
provided life cover only and wouldve reduced in line with the mortgage amount when he first 
took out the mortgage in 2008. But the information I have seen indicates he decided not to 
go ahead with this. 
But although the mortgage was a capital repayment mortgage it included a reserve facility 
allowing Mr K to borrow up to the original mortgage amount. Mr K has made extensive use 
of this to date. So although the initial mortgage amount has reduced over time, the total 
amount owing to Barclays hasnt reduced significantly  the statement I have seen from 
2016 shows the mortgage at £210,209 but the reserve facility at £96,750 and the total 
amount owing as £307,234.
Given Mr K chose to take out a capital repayment mortgage that had a reserve facility that 
allowed him to borrow up to the original mortgage amount it is reasonable to think he may 
make use of that facility  as he has done throughout the mortgage. In the circumstances I 
think the advice to take out an LTA rather than DTA was appropriate.Barclays have confirmed that the LTA wasnt a condition of the mortgage and I have seen no 
evidence that supports what Mr K has said about not being made aware it was optional. 
Given he chose not to have life cover and CIC when he first took out the mortgage in 2008 
and only took out the LTA a year later it is difficult to see on what basis he couldve thought 
the policy wasnt optional. 
I can see no basis for him not being aware he didnt need to take out cover for the total 
mortgage amount when he applied for additional borrowing of just £25,000. It is also of note 
that he didnt then get the additional borrowing, so even if he had thought the policy was a 
condition of getting the additional borrowing he wouldve been aware he didnt then need to 
go ahead with the policy when he didnt get the additional borrowing. 
I note Mr K raised an issue about being unemployed. From what I have seen he may have 
been employed at the time he first discussed the policy. But Barclays accepted that at the 
time the policy started he was no longer employed (by it) and that he didnt start with another 
employer until July 2009. 
But I dont think the fact Mr K was unemployed of itself made the LTA unsuitable. He still had 
the mortgage that wouldve had to have been paid off if he died or became critically ill. As 
Barclays noted in its final response to the complaint, the concern if someone is unemployed 
is their ability to afford the premium payments  rather than cover being unsuitable for any 
other reason.
Barclays has said that Mr K got significant payments from it when he stopped work. It also 
pointed to the fact he had contacted the provider and asked for the policy to start as from 1 
May 2009 so made a conscious choice as to when he wanted the policy to start. He has also 
maintained the premium payments to date which suggests the policy has been affordable 
throughout. In the circumstances Im not satisfied his employment status made the policy 
unsuitable. 
Mr K has said the policy exclusions werent discussed and his pre-existing medical 
conditions made the policy unsuitable but Barclays has said that the provider confirmed full 
medical underwriting took place with a GP report and Nurses report obtained. In the 
circumstances I think the LTA wouldve covered Mr K if there was a claim as result of death 
or one of the critical illnesses covered by the policy. Im not satisfied he wasnt given the 
information he needed to understand what was, and wasnt, covered by the policy.
In short I am satisfied that the LTA was suitable for Mr K and Barclays did nothing wrong in 
recommending he take out the policy  save that it recommended he take out too much 
cover as he didnt need cover for the additional borrowing he applied for but didnt get. .
Mr K will have known that he didnt get the additional borrowing and that the LTA was to 
provide cover for both the mortgage and that additional borrowing. So on the face of it Mr K 
chose to proceed with having more cover than he needed.
Putting things right
But Barclays has upheld the complaint Mr K has made about this, so what I am considering 
is whether what it has offered is reasonable redress. It has obtained figures from the 
provider as to what the premium wouldve been if the policy had been limited to the original 
mortgage amount of £308,750 rather than the £326,683 he actually took cover out for. 
The providers figures show that his premium wouldve been £8.35 less each month if he had 
an LTA for the original mortgage amount. It has offered to repay this together with simple 
interest at 8% in accordance with our normal interest awards. I can see no other basis for calculating the loss to Mr K so I think its offer in this respect is reasonable and in line with 
what I wouldve asked it to do.
Barclays has also offered to pay the difference going forwards for the remaining term of the 
policy as lump sum now. This is because the providers figure for a new policy for the right 
amount of cover for the remaining mortgage term will actually cost more than Mr K is 
currently paying. Again I think this is reasonable and is in line with what I wouldve asked 
Barclays to do.
The investigator thought Barclays should also pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Barclays has agreed to this and I think it is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Barclays Bank UK PLC has to 
calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman