DRN-2433555
The complaint
A, a business, complains that Squareup Europe Ltd held onto its funds without good reason 
after its merchant account was closed.
What happened
A had a merchant account with Squareup so that it could accept card payments. It complains 
that when Squareup decided to close its account it retained funds for longer than it said it 
would. And that the reason it gave  that there had been chargebacks on its account - was 
incorrect.
Our investigator said that he was not recommending that the complaint be upheld. He said 
that there had initially been an issue with contacting Squareup for its business file. But it had 
now provided this. A had received payments into its account in May and June 2019. On 4 
June 2019 it received a payment of £3,750. Squareup asked A on 5 June 2019 for further 
information about its business and the payments. Squareup had been unable to determine 
the economic purpose for the payments and so it decided to terminate the account. It wrote 
to A on 6 June 2019 to tell it this and that its payments would be held for 120 days to cover 
the risk of any chargeback. And it said that the funds would be released on 4 October 2019. 
A asked about the release of its funds and on 2 October 2019 Squareup told A that due to 
the recent chargebacks on your account the funds would be held for an additional 60 days. 
It accepts that in error it said that there had been chargebacks but maintained that it was still 
guarding against this risk.
Our investigator said that under the terms and conditions A had agreed to, Squareup was 
entitled to request information about any specific transactions, terminate the account without 
notice in certain circumstances and withhold payments until it was satisfied that there was no 
risk of any payment been disputed. A indemnified Squareup against such a risk. While its 
email of 2 October 2019 was incorrect it was still able to hold the funds. It said it had 
released them on 6 December 2019.
A did not agree. It said it accepted that Squareup had the right to terminate the account. But, 
it said that the terms our investigator referred to did not specify how long the money could be 
retained for. It had been withheld on a false basis and this was not just due to the email.  
The owner of A had contacted Squareup and it had the opportunity to correct this mistake. 
He referred to payment industry rules and said that by October 2019 the risk of chargeback 
had already lapsed. Squareup had acted unfairly and had not followed the Banking Conduct 
of Business sourcebook or taken account of relevant legislation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Squareup clearly had concerns about the way A was operating its account. It was not 
satisfied with the explanation A had given about the nature of its business. And as a result, it 
decided that it could no longer offer an account to A. Our investigator has already set out the 
relevant parts of its terms and conditions and I wont repeat them here. In any event A does 
not dispute the right for Squareup to close the account.
The issue is about the money from card payments that had not been settled to A in line with 
the payment schedule. Again, Squareup seemed concerned that this money might be 
disputed given the reasons the account was terminated. It wanted to allow time for any 
potential claims to be made about the legitimacy of the payment. When it first wrote to A it 
expected that would happen after 120 days. But as A says there is no specific timescale 
specified in its terms and conditions and Squareup decided that a further 60 days was 
appropriate. Unfortunately, its explanation for this to A was incorrect as there had not been 
actual chargebacks. But that was its concern.
I take account of relevant legislation and regulations in thinking about what is fair and 
reasonable. And I appreciate the normal timescales for chargebacks or claims from card 
holders making payments. Here Im satisfied on the information provided that Squareup had 
a reasonable basis for concerns about the risk of these funds being in dispute such that it 
retained the funds for a further period. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
I appreciate that the owner of A will be disappointed by my decision and if this is not 
accepted A has the right to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman