DRN-3687870
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has dealt 
with a claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
Mrs F is represented by Mr F, who I will normally refer to, as he mainly dealt with the claim. 
References to RSA include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr F contacted RSA when water entered Mrs Fs home during a storm. After some delay, 
RSAs home emergency team visited, but said it couldnt carry out a temporary repair. 
Following this, RSA sent a surveyor who inspected the damage. RSA then declined the 
claim because it said the damage was due to wear and tear highlighted by the storm.
When Mr F complained, RSA agreed there had been some customer service issues, 
including that the home emergency team should have visited more quickly. However, it said 
it was reasonable that it declined the claim for storm damage due to the condition of the roof 
and it wasnt possible for the home emergency team to carry out a temporary repair. Due to 
the customer service issues, RSA offered £150 compensation.
Mr F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was 
reasonable for RSA not to deal with the roof, as the evidence showed there were pre-
existing issue with the roof. He also hadnt seen anything that showed it was possible for a 
temporary repair to be carried out. He said the £150 compensation RSA offered was 
reasonable to address the customer service issues.
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr F asked RSA to send its home emergency team. RSA has accepted it took longer than it 
should have for anyone to visit. When the visit then took place, work wasnt carried out 
because it was assessed that the gap which was allowing water through was too large for a 
temporary repair. I havent seen anything that shows me this assessment was incorrect and 
Im aware that quite extensive work was later required to fix the roof permanently. Im also 
aware there was a £200 limit on each home emergency claim, which would have limited 
what work could be carried out. Based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable that 
RSA didnt carry out a temporary repair to the roof. I will return to the issue of the delay 
before the visit when I look at the compensation.
Ive also looked at the claim for storm damage. When we look at a storm claim complaint, 
there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive checked weather reports and can see there were windspeeds that would be regarded as 
storm strength around the time the damage was found. I also think a storm could cause 
damage to a roof. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question on whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. Ive looked at the surveyors report. This said the damage to the roof was caused 
by a natural breakdown in materials. There was also a range of photos that showed the 
damage. RSA also carried out a further review of the damage and this identified general 
weathering to the roof, evidence that parts of it might not have been torched properly when it 
was installed and that there was rippling to the roof, which also indicated issues around its 
installation. So, based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline the 
claim. I think it was fair for it to decide there were pre-existing issues with the roof which 
were the main cause of the damage, even if these were later highlighted by the storm.
Im aware Mr F is concerned that the surveyor might have altered his findings after he left 
Mrs Fs home. From what I can see, the surveyor took a range of photos and, in my view, 
the surveyors assessment, and the later assessment by RSA, is supported by the photos. I 
have also seen the other evidence Mr F has provided, such as a photo of a neighbours roof 
following the storm and assessments/ quotes from builders. But these doesnt change my 
view of whether RSA fairly dealt with Mrs Fs claim. For example, the photo of the 
neighbours roof doesnt help to show the condition of Mrs Fs roof, which is what the claim 
was for, and the builders assessments/ quotes briefly mention it was storm damage, but 
dont provide further details to support their assessment.
Ive also thought about the £150 compensation RSA offered. From what Ive seen, this was a 
concerning time for Mrs F and I can understand that the delay in sending the home 
emergency team and it then not carrying out a temporary repair would have added to this. 
Im also aware there were other customer service issues that also affected the claims 
progress. Thinking about everything that happened, in my view, the compensation offered by 
RSA was appropriate in the circumstances and in line with the amount I would have asked it 
to pay. As a result, I dont require it to pay anything further.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman