DRN-2926428
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr I, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. B claimed on its policy after being
impacted by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
UKI said the policy didnt cover Bs claim because the core business interruption cover 
provided by the policy and some extensions required there to have been damage and Covid-
19 didnt cause damage. They said the extension for disease didnt provide cover either 
because, while the policy covered losses due to some named diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on 
that list. UKI said they had also considered the extension for public emergency - but that 
had an exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases.
Unhappy with UKIs response, B brought its complaint to us. It said the meaning of damage 
was ambiguous and thought that it had cover under either the extension for disease or 
public emergency. B also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) test case. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Bs claim.
B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Covid-19 couldnt have been 
listed as being covered by the policy as it wasnt in existence when the policy was written.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Bs claim.
Id like to reassure B that I have considered the policy in full but have only referred to the 
parts of the policy below that I think are most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption section provided by the policy provides cover:
If Damage by any of the Perils insured under Section 1: Material Damage of this 
Policy or by Boiler Explosion (as defined in this Section), occurs during the Period 
of Insurance to property used by the Insured at the Premises for the purposes of 
the Business and causes interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises
The policy defines damage as:
Accidental loss, destruction or damage
I understand B thinks the meaning of damage in the policy is ambiguous, but I think its clear 
that for this section to provide cover there would need to be accidental loss, destruction or 
damage to property used by B at its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-
19 caused damage to property used by B at its premises. So, this section of the policy 
doesnt provide cover for its claim. 
Public emergency
The cover under policy is extended through various extensions. This extension says:
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of 
the Premises, which commencing during the Period of Insurance, prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the Premises, excluding:
a any loss during the first four hours:
b cover provided by Extension 0 Bomb Scares:
c labour disputes:
d any loss occurring in Northern Ireland: or
e infectious or contagious disease.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
B has referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the FCA test case, but I think the High 
Court judgment is more relevant to Bs complaint. Thats because the High Court considered 
a similar term within another insurers policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to 
the Supreme Court. 
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached in the High Court judgment. I think
the Government actions which impacted Bs business were as a result of Covid-19, which
the World Health Organisations website describes as an infectious disease. So 
unfortunately, this extension doesnt provide cover for its claim.Disease
The relevant part of this extension provides cover for loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of a list of covered diseases at Bs premises 
however, Covid-19 isnt on the list. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Bs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore 
this doesnt provide cover for Bs claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that B was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay Bs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman