DRN-3580520
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) poor service, following 
a claim under, her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W made a claim for a damaged mobile phone. D&G sent her a pre-paid envelope to 
return the phone for repair. She asked a family member to return the phone via the post 
office. After a few weeks, when she hadnt heard from D&G, she contacted its customer 
service department for an update, after her family member had seen online that it said that 
the repair was in progress. 
D&G told Mrs W that its systems didnt indicate that the device was being repaired. Soon 
afterwards Mrs W received an email that said that the device had never been received and 
the claim would be closed. Mrs W contacted D&G and raised a complaint. D&G asked her to 
provide proof of postage, as on the returns information it was highlighted that customers 
ought to obtain proof of postage. Mrs W told D&G that she no longer had the proof of 
postage. 
In its final response, D&G confirmed that the status of the phone hadnt changed in that 
there had been no indication that the phone was in for repairs. It said that an empty 
envelope had been received but no device. And as Mrs W was unable to provide proof of 
postage so that it could see the weight as indicated on the certificate, there was no evidence 
to prove that the phone was in the package when it was posted. It did offer to reimburse Mrs 
W the excess charge she made of £75, but Mrs W refused this. So, D&G said there was 
nothing further it could do. 
Mrs W was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered her complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
She said that she didnt consider it unreasonable for Mrs W to no longer have the proof of 
postage, over two weeks after she posted the mobile phone. Especially as D&G hadnt told 
Mrs W that it had received the empty envelope until later. Which the investigator felt that 
because of this, Mrs W wouldnt have had any reason to think there was a problem. She felt 
that it was the responsibility of D&G to have informed Mrs W when they received the empty 
envelope. But the delay in doing so meant that Mrs W was unable to provide evidence that 
the phone was posted. Which she considered was the fault of D&G. She recommended that 
for the service failings, D&G ought to pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and upset caused. She 
also recommended that D&G should pay a cash settlement for the value of Mrs Ws lost 
mobile phone. 
Mrs W accepted the view but said that she would now want the excess payment she made 
of £75, to be refunded. D&G did not accept the view. It said that Mrs W was told on more 
than one occasion that proof of postage was required. This was not provided by her so there 
was no proof that the phone was sent in. In addition, it had run checks on the phones IMEI 
number and found that it was still being used. It accepted that there had been service failings 
and agreed to pay the £150 recommended for the distress and inconvenience caused. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should not be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 June 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 26 
July 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mrs W, but I hope my findings will explain why I think this is fair.
Mrs W held a gadget insurance policy with D&G. It insured (amongst other things) for 
accidental damage. Mrs W sent a phone that was covered under the policy terms for repair, 
following a claim that she made. 
She tells me that the phone was posted at a post office by a family member who obtained a 
proof of postage receipt. Mrs W further explained that the receipt was discarded following a 
relative logging on to the online account and finding that the phone was showing as repair in 
progress. 
D&G said that at the repair in progress simply meant that once a claim had been booked in 
and was underway, be it the posting of an envelope to a customer, the status will show as 
repair in progress. This just indicates that the claim has been accepted and is progressing.
Further, its repair contractors confirmed to them, that no repair had been carried out as only 
an empty envelope had been received. D&G also provided me with a return form that it said 
Mrs W wouldve received. Having reviewed the form, it detailed what steps Mrs W would 
need to take before returning the phone and there was an instruction included (written in 
bold) telling the customer to obtain a receipt of posting. 
I appreciate that Mrs W didnt take the phone for posting and said that her relative had 
obtained a receipt of posting. But I think that as Mrs W was relying on the postal service to 
ensure that the phone arrived safely at its destination. And given that Mrs W said that the 
value of the phone was over £1,000, it would be reasonable for Mrs W to have taken care to 
ensure that she retained the proof of postage, until the claim had finalised. 
Mrs W said that once a relative had logged on to the online system and found a notification 
that the repair was in progress, she discarded the receipt. I asked D&G how customers 
would be notified had it received a device. It said as previously mentioned, the customer 
would receive a notification saying repair in progress. But this just meant that the claim had 
been accepted. 
Consequently, I think its more likely than not, that there wasnt a repair in progress. And I do 
think that Mrs W shouldve retained the proof of postage. As Im persuaded that had it been 
retained, this wouldve provided evidence of the weight of the package and that the phone 
was inside the envelope. Accordingly, I dont think its fair to hold D&G responsible for the lack of the proof of postage, due to the delay in its contractors not telling Mrs W as soon as 
possible that it hadnt received the phone.
I also asked Mrs W what she did once she found out that the phone was missing. She said 
that she didnt contact her phone provider to block the phone nor did she report its loss to 
the police. She further explained that the reason she didnt block the phone was because the 
screen was damaged and so it couldnt be used. Moreover, there was no SIM in the phone, 
and it was logged out of everything via the computer. And as the screen was smashed the 
phone didnt work.
D&G said that it searched the IMEI number of the phone and found that it might be still in 
use. It also provided a mobile phone checker report which indicated that the phone hadnt 
been reported as lost with the police. And confirmed that the phone hadnt been blocked. 
D&G further explained that it would be reasonable for Mrs W to have, at the very least, 
blocked her phone with her provider, and as she didnt do this, this was evidence that the 
phone may still be in use. I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs W to have either 
reported the loss of the phone to the police (once she had been told of its loss). Or blocked it 
with her phone provider, so that she wouldnt be liable to any monthly phone charges. Mrs W 
did neither and so Im persuaded by D&G, that the phone may still be in use. 
I have next considered, the service failings, that D&G has accepted happened during the 
claims process. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that there was delay. For 
instance, D&G didnt contact Mrs W sooner, when its contractors discovered that there was 
no phone in the envelope. Mrs W had to chase to get updates. And D&G delayed closing the 
claim. Its for these reasons that Im satisfied that D&Gs service fell below its usual 
standards. And for those errors, I think its fair and reasonable, that it has accepted to pay 
Mrs W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. The level of which is 
in line with what I would have recommended.  
Mrs W has said that she initially declined the reimbursement of the excess payment of £75 
that D&G offered. But now on reflection she wanted this payment returned. I asked D&G its 
position regarding this, it confirmed that it would be content to refund the excess payment in 
addition to the compensation payment of £150. In the circumstances, I think its fair that D&G 
also reimburse Mrs W the excess payment charge.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im not satisfied that D&G are responsible for the lack of 
the proof of postage, so I cant agree that it should make a cash settlement to the value of 
the lost phone to Mrs W. I think that the £150 offered for the poor service is fair and D&G 
ought to pay that unless it has already done so. Also, as D&G has agreed to the excess 
payment charge being refunded, I think that this amount should also be repaid, unless it has 
already done so. 
I understand that this is not the outcome that Mrs W would have liked, but I wont be asking 
D&G to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W said that she contacted the postal service and she was unable to obtain a proof of 
postage. So, there was not much she could do to prove that she posted the phone.
D&G accepted the provisional decision. 
I have carefully considered Mrs Ws responses. She has confirmed that she is unable to 
provide evidence of proof of postage. This evidence wouldve provided proof of the weight of 
the envelope to see if the phone had been received by D&G. As there is no evidence of this, then the reasons given in my provisional decision as to why the complaint is not upheld, will 
be the same in my final decision.  
My final decision
Domestic and General Insurance PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Domestic and General Insurance PLC has also offered to refund the excess payment charge 
of £75, which I think is fair in the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Domestic and General Insurance PLC should pay £150 
compensation and £75 excess payment charge (If it hasnt already done so).
Domestic and General Insurance PLC must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman