DRN-2527037
The complaint
Mr H complains Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly turned down his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
Mr Hs complaint is brought on his behalf by a representative, but for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr H himself.
What happened
Mr H travelled abroad in December 2019. He unfortunately suffered heart failure, and was 
taken to a private hospital for treatment. 
The hospital contacted Zurich about cover for Mr Hs treatment. And after obtaining his 
medical records, it advised the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr H remained in hospital for around two weeks before returning to the UK, via an air 
ambulance, which Zurich helped to facilitate. 
Zurich said it was unable to accept Mr Hs claim because he hadnt disclosed all of his 
medical information. It said Mr H had disclosed that he suffered with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). And stated he received treatment for a respiratory condition 
once in the 12 months before taking out the policy. However, Zurich said Mr Hs medical 
records showed hed received treatment for a respiratory condition twice in the 12 months 
prior to taking the policy. And on a further two occasions since taking the policy. And it said 
Mr H had not told it about this. 
Zurich said if Mr H had disclosed the two occasions of treatment for a respiratory condition 
when taking out his policy, it would have been unable to offer cover. 
Mr H complained to Zurich. And it said its decision to turn down his claim had been correct. It 
cancelled Mr Hs policy and refunded the premium hed paid.
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. And the case 
has been passed to me. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Whilst I was very sorry to hear of the difficult financial situation Mr H now finds himself in, 
I thought it would be unreasonable for me to direct Zurich to pay his medical and repatriation 
costs in the circumstances. And I said I would explain why.
When reviewing this complaint I considered the relevant law. The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the responsibilities of the 
consumer and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the 
consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an 
insurer (such as giving untrue or misleading answers). 
When taking out his policy on 18 October 2019, Mr H declared his pre-existing medical 
conditions, including COPD and a respiratory infection. 
In regard to the respiratory infection, Mr H was asked the following question:
How many episodes have you had that required treatment with antibiotics in the last year?
And Mr H answered one. 
Zurich has said Mr H required treatment for two episodes  in January and March 2019. 
Mr Hs medical records and a further letter from his GP provided the following information 
about these periods. 
In January 2019 Mr H saw his GP and discussed an ongoing cough which he said 
hed had symptoms of since October 2018. Mr H was supplied with what the GP 
referred to as a just in case prescription for antibiotics and steroids which he could 
choose to take if his symptoms required it. 
In March 2019 Mr H attended the GPs surgery again after completing the previously 
prescribed course of antibiotics. The GP said Mr H advised his cough had returned 
two days after completing the antibiotics. And Mr H was then prescribed a further 
course of antibiotics. 
In view of this evidence, I didnt think Mr H provided an incorrect answer to Zurichs question. 
I said this because Zurich asked how many episodes Mr H had. And the medical records 
showed Mr H presented to his GP with an ongoing cough which cleared up with antibiotics, 
but returned two days after he completed the course. When he returned to the GP he was 
prescribed further antibiotics for another week. I thought in the circumstances it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to say Mr H should have declared two episodes, as I was 
persuaded by the medical evidence Id seen, that the visits to the GP and the antibiotics 
prescribed, related to the same episode of Mr H experiencing a persistent cough. 
However, Mr Hs policy also requires him to tell Zurich of any changes in his health after he 
took out his policy. Zurich said Mr H should have told it about two further visits to his GP 
after he took out the policy  in October and November 2019. So I considered what I thought 
Mr H was required to disclose. 
The medical records Id seen showed that in October 2019, Mr H attended what his GP has 
described as a routine annual COPD review. And the outcome of this was that Mr Hs 
condition was deemed to be stable with no significant change. 
Mr H was given a prescription for a course of antibiotics and steroids. The GP said these 
were prescribed to Mr H to use in the future should you need these, and not because you 
had evidence of an acute exacerbation or acute respiratory symptoms at that time. 
Based on this, I was satisfied that the appointment in October 2019 didnt identify any 
changes to Mr Hs health. The medication prescribed was not required at the time, and was 
given for Mr H to have available in case he needed it in the future. And as such, I didnt think 
he needed to tell Zurich about this appointment. In November 2019, records provided by Mr Hs GP show that he attended the surgery again 
with acute respiratory symptoms. The GP stated Mr H had said the symptoms had been 
ongoing for three to four weeks and it was determined to be an acute exacerbation of COPD. 
The GP advised Mr H to take the medication hed been prescribed a month earlier, and 
perscribed a further pack for future use. 
Under the section Important exclusions and conditions relating to health on page 9 of the 
terms and conditions, Mr Hs policy states the following: 
If your health changes after you have purchased your policy but before you 
commence your trip you must tell us about these changes, if:
You have seen a medical practioner because your develop a new medical 
condition, your prescribed medication changes or an existing medical 
condition deteriorates;
You have seen of been referred to a consultant or specialist;
You are waiting to receive treatment (including surgery, tests or 
investigations) or the results of tests and investigations, or have been 
admitted to hospital. 
Mr H said he was aware of the need to declare a change in the state of his health in line with 
this section of his policy. However, he said he didnt think he needed to let Zurich know 
about his visit to the GP in November 2019, as his cough had cleared up before he went on 
holiday. He said he believed he had returned to the same state of health as when he took 
out the policy.
Whilst I understood Mr Hs point, the GPs assessment of him in November 2019, references 
an acute exacerbation of COPD. And I thought it reasonable to say this was a change in 
the state of Mr Hs health. So I thought he was required to tell Zurich about it. 
I asked Zurich to tell me what would have happened had Mr H updated it about his visit to 
his GP in November 2019. And Zurich provided me with evidence which showed that taking 
into account the one occasion of a respiratory episode requiring antibiotics (which Mr H 
declared when taking the policy), and the details of an acute exacerbation of COPD in 
November 2019, this would still have led to it being unable to continue offering cover. And it 
said at this point Mr H could have made a cancellation claim against his policy, or he could 
have sought cover elsewhere for his holiday.
Although I didnt think Mr H made a misrepresetation when taking out his policy, I found he 
was required to disclose the change to his health in November 2019, before he travelled in 
early December. And I was satisfied that had he done this, Zurich was entitled to withdraw 
cover, and Mr H could have made a cancellation claim, subject to the terms of his policy. 
In cancelling Mr Hs policy and refunding the premiums he paid, Zurich has applied the 
remedy available to it under CIDRA, on the basis that he made a misrepresentation when 
taking the policy. However, I wasnt persuaded that this was fair, as Id explained that I didnt 
think Mr H made a misrepresentation at that point. 
As Id established that I thought Mr H should have declared his change in health in 
November 2019, I thought he should be put back in the same position he would have been 
in, had he made the delcaration to Zurich in line with the requirements of his policy. This 
means Mr H wouldve been entitled to make a cancellation claim up to the value of £5,000 
as set out in his policy, less the relevant excess. So I therefore thought it fair that Zurich pay 
Mr H the equivilent amount he would have received had he made a cancellation claim. I didnt think Zurich was right to cancel the policy, so I said it should remove any record of 
avoiding the policy from its own and any external databases. This also means that it didnt 
need to refund the premium to Mr H. So Zurich may choose to deduct the amount of the 
refunded premium from the settlement it pays him.
The response to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to the provisional decision. He said hed declared he suffered with COPD 
when taking the policy. And he said he wasnt told hed had an acute exacerbation of COPD 
when he visited his GP in November 2019. He said the GP said his chest had a rattle sound, 
asked him to complete a peak flow test and prescribed anti-biotics. And when asked, the GP 
said Mr H was able to go on his holiday. Mr H said he didnt know what the GP had written in 
his notes and hed previously been told to expect ongoing coughs due to his condition. 
Zurich also responded to my provisional decision. It said it wanted to obtain confirmation 
from Mr Hs GP as to whether or not his appointment and prescription in March 2019 was 
classed as a second episode, or a continuation of the same episode hed seen his GP about 
in January 2019. And I agreed to allow more time for Zurich to do this. 
Zurich later advised it had received a response from Mr Hs GP. It said it now accepted my 
provisional decision and asked for clarification of my intended award. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the responses.
Although Mr H may not have specifically been told hed had an acute exacerbation of COPD 
in November 2019, he said the doctor commented on a rattle sound in his chest, asked him 
to complete a peak flow test, and prescribed anti-biotics. 
The terms of Mr Hs policy related to changes in health require him to tell Zurich about any 
deterioration of an existing condition, or any prescribed medication changes. Whilst I cant 
know exactly what Mr Hs GP told him during the appointment, there is clear evidence of 
a change in prescribed medication: Mr H was given a new prescription for that particular 
episode. So, I still think Mr H was required to tell Zurich about this appointment. And had he 
done this, Zurich has shown it would have withdrawn cover.
As the points Mr H has raised havent changed my mind, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct 
Zurich Insurance PLC to do the following: 
pay Mr H in line with the cancellation section of the policy, up to the policy limit and 
less relevant excesses (Mr H will need to provide Zurich with evidence of the cost of 
his holiday);
deduct from the settlement the amount it has already refunded to Mr H in respect of 
the policy premium if it so chooses; andremove any record of an avoidance of this policy from its own records and any 
external databases. 
Zurich should pay the settlement to Mr H within 28 days of receiving evidence of the cost of 
his holiday. If it pays later than this, it should add simple interest to the settlement at a rate of 
8% per year, from the date it receives evidence of the costs to the date it makes payment.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman