DRN-3439179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his mortgage 
application. Mr S asks for further compensation or some shares in Barclays. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for a further advance on their mortgage with Barclays. Mr S was 
mistakenly told they could apply for a five-year offset mortgage with an interest rate of 
1.29%. Mr S would like it Barclays to honour this rate.
Mr S is also unhappy that Barclays mortgage adviser called him the day before their 
appointment and asked a lot of questions. He was concerned that this was a scam call. His 
appointment call with the mortgage adviser the next day ended abruptly when the fire alarm 
went off.
Our investigator said she couldnt require Barclays to offer a 1.29% rate when this wasnt a 
rate that it offers. She said the call that caused Mr S concern was from the mortgage adviser 
asking for information ready for the appointment the next day. The investigator said Mr S 
could have ended the call if he was uncomfortable. Our investigator said while it wasnt ideal 
that the call with the mortgage adviser ended due to the fire alarm this was outside Barclays 
control. She said the £100 compensation offered by Barclays was fair. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said it wasnt reasonable for Barclays to call before the 
appointment and £100 isnt enough compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about the way Barclays dealt with their mortgage application. It 
gave them incorrect information about what product rates were available. It called Mr S when 
he didnt expect the call, causing him to worry. And Mr Ss appointment with the mortgage 
adviser ended when the fire alarm went off. He had to finish the appointment with another 
adviser.
Mr S would like Barclays to offer the rate he was wrongly told was available. I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require it to do this. Giving Mr and Mrs S this incorrect information 
didnt cause them any financial loss. They had to choose from the product rates that were 
available, just as theyd have done if theyd been given correct information at the outset. 
The mortgage adviser called Mr S the day before the appointment. Mr S asked how hed 
know if the call was genuine and the adviser sent him an email from her Barclays address. 
The mortgage adviser said the call was to ensure they were prepared for the appointment. 
The discussion on the call was about Mr and Mrs Ss application for the further advance and 
a potential buy to let mortgage. I understand that Mr S was concerned that the call could be 
a scam. But he could have ended the call if he was concerned. 
It was unfortunate that the fire alarm went off during Mr Ss appointment with the mortgage 
adviser. This mortgage adviser was then on annual leave. Barclays arranged for the 
appointment to continue with another adviser. I think this was reasonable, in the 
circumstances. I havent seen any evidence that this short delay caused any financial loss to 
Mr and Mrs S.
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that Mr and Mrs S were caused any financial 
loss or significant inconvenience. I think the £100 offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable 
compensation for any disappointment, upset and inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs S, as it offered to 
do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman