DRN-2069022
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received when he opened a new current account with 
TSB Bank plc.
What happened
Mr R opened a new current account with TSB on 1 June 2019. 
On 21 June 2019, Mr R had an appointment at a branch of TSB. He intended to do a partial 
switch, to move the direct debits and regular payments on his current account with another 
bank to the new one with TSB. Mr R says the bank werent very helpful and wouldnt carry 
out the switch for him. He says he found this upsetting, particularly because has learning 
difficulties and so had gone to the branch because he needed help. 
As Mr R was unhappy, he complained to TSB. TSB apologised for the service hed received 
in the branch, offered Mr R £25 as an apology and £6 to cover call costs. TSB says Mr R 
was happy with this at the time. They issued a summary resolution communication (SRC).
Mr R wasnt happy with what TSB had done in response to his complaint, so he contacted 
the bank again. But wasnt happy when they didnt get back to him. In October 2019, Mr R 
referred his complaint to our service.
An Investigator considered Mr Rs complaint. He said, in summary, he thought TSB had 
treated Mr R fairly both in how theyd handled his original appointments and in what theyd 
offered to do in response to the complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 
30 June 2020. Ive set out my provisional findings again here. 
My provisional findings
Mr R was unhappy that the partial switch that he intended to do didnt happen. But Im 
satisfied, based on the notes provided by TSB, that they explained to Mr R that they could 
do the partial switch but that this might take longer than contacting the organisations 
involved directly. And that Mr R made the decision not go ahead with the partial switch 
based on what TSB told him. So I dont think TSB did anything wrong by highlighting this to 
Mr R and giving him the option. I dont agree that TSB refused to do what Mr R asked by 
doing so. 
Mr R says hes got learning difficulties and needed help contacting the organisations 
involved. TSB say they made phone calls to two different organisations to move regular 
payments to Mr Rs TSB account. And their notes indicate they wrote to another organisation 
for Mr R. I can also see from the statements that Mr Rs direct debits and regular payments 
were coming in and out of his TSB account from July. So I think TSB did help him contact 
the organisations he needed to move regular payments with and in a reasonable time. 
Mr R continued to contact TSB after the SRC had been issued. TSB seem to have indicated 
that theyd re-open the complaint but then did not provide Mr R with a final response, he 
eventually referred his complaint here. 
I can see from the notes that Mr R contacted TSB about this at least once a week from this 
point onwards, sometimes also visiting the branch. But TSB had already, in the SRC, 
advised Mr R that he could refer his complaint to us so while I understand why Mr R felt like 
TSB werent helping him at this point - I think they had already addressed his complaint.  
Theyre required to tell people in Mr Rs situation about our service so I dont think they did 
something wrong by telling Mr R he could refer his complaint to this service. 
Overall, I provisionally find TSB did assist Mr R in moving his payments, so I dont think it did 
anything wrong. TSB already offered Mr R £25 as an apology and £6 in relation to call costs. 
But they dont need to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my Provisional Decision
Mr R responded to say, as hed said before, TSB still hadnt sorted out the problem and they 
hadnt treated him well despite knowing he had learning difficulties. 
TSB said it didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr R is concerned that weve not listened to what hes told us. So I want to assure 
him that Ive thought carefully about what both TSB and Mr R have told us in the course of 
this complaint, and in response to my provisional decision. But as neither TSB or Mr R have 
provided anything new for me to consider, my findings remain the same as my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman