DRN-3561995
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr B, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.
What happened
L held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It operates a conference venue.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 L closed 
its business in March 2020. 
L claimed on the policy. RSA declined the claim. It said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of an outbreak of a notifiable disease at the premises and it didnt 
think L had demonstrated that Covid-19 had occurred at the premises. It also said there was 
no cover under the denial of access section of the policy as there had been no damage to 
property.
Our Investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think L had shown that thered been an outbreak or occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
She also considered whether the claim should be covered under the extension for denial of 
access. But she said that required there to have been damage to property and she hadnt 
seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 had caused such damage. 
L asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ls business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ls claim.
While business interruption cover typically requires damage to property owned by the 
business, over time it has evolved to cover other areas which can result in loss of gross 
profit to a business, including denial of access and disease. These are usually extensions to 
the main policy coverage. The most relevant parts of Ls policy are these two extensions. 
The first is as follows:
Denial of Access  Extension
This clause applies to the Business Interruption section of this Policy.
This insurance is extended to include loss as insured by the Policy resulting from prevention 
or hindrance of access to or use of the Premises in consequence of Damage (as insured by 
the Policy) to property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises but excluding Damage which 
prevents or hinders the supply of electricity gas water or telecommunications services.
The Policy says:
The following words or expressions shall have the meanings set out below, unless a more 
specific Definition applies in the individual Insurance section.
The word Damage is defined as Accidental loss destruction or damage.
So, there might be a valid claim under this section if there has been Damage to property in 
the immediate vicinity of the premises, by something which would be covered under the 
policy and which prevented or hindered access to or use of the premises. 
As I understand it, L is claiming under this extension on the basis that in Mr Bs view the 
term Damage should include an infectious disease. However, I note the requirement is 
that this damage occur to property. The term Property, when capitalised, is defined in the 
policy as The material assets owned by the Policyholder or those material assets for 
which they are legally responsible but that would not make sense in this context and in 
any event the clause refers to property in lower case, indicating it does not have a 
specific meaning given by a policy definition. It is therefore necessary to consider what this 
term means in the context it is used in the policy. Given the context in which it is used I 
consider this most likely refers to physical property. I also consider this is the conclusion a 
reasonable person would come to when reading the policy at the time L took it out. I think 
damage to physical property must inherently be physical damage. And I dont consider 
property in the vicinity of Ls premises, was physically damaged as a result of Covid-19 or 
the Governments restrictions.
The second extension is:
Infectious Diseases including Legionellosis  Extension
This clause applies to the Business Interruption Insurance section of this Policy.
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof on the 
order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence at the Premises of
A)Any human contagious or infectious disease an outbreak of which is required by law 
or stipulated by the government authority to be notified
As I understand it, Mr B contends the definition of Damage within the whole of the business 
interruption section of the policy has been extended to include infectious disease. I dont 
think a reasonable person would make such an assumption. I think the definition of 
Damage has only been broadened for the purpose of this specific extension.
The wording of this clause is clear that (as well as the other meanings given by the policy), 
Damage means closure of the Premises as a result of actions taken by a relevant authority as a result of an infectious disease at the Premises. It is the entirety of this composite clause 
that is required for there to be Damage  not just the disease element.
So, in order to be covered under the second extension L must show there was most likely a 
case of Covid-19 at its business premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers. L hasnt provided any evidence to support the fact that there was an outbreak 
or occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises. So, I dont think RSA treated L unreasonably in 
refusing its claim under this part of the policy.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman