DRN-4350016
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Revolut Ltd dealt with a transfer he sent from the US.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr K holds a multi currency account with Revolut that allows him to deposit both USD and 
GBP. On 23 September 2022 Mr K used Revoluts online chat facility and explained he was 
planning to transfer around $500,000 from an account in the US to his USD account. Mr K 
asked if there would be any issues in sending a wire payment of this nature. The agent Mr K 
spoke with gave timescales for the payment being received and paid into Mr Ks account. 
The agent explained that Revolut may ask Mr K for evidence to show the source of his 
funds. No mention of any inbound transfer limits was made.
On 25 September 2022 Mr K used the chat facility again and asked whether there was a 
limit to the amount of USD he could convert to GBP once funds were received. The agent 
advised Mr K that as soon as the USD funds were in his account they could be converted to 
GBP. The agent added that Revolut would contact Mr K to request any additional information 
required to complete the transfer.
On 26 September 2022 Mr Ks bank in the US sent a wire transfer to Revolut for $475,000. 
Revolut returned the funds to Mr Ks bank in the US the same day.
When the funds didnt appear in Mr Ks Revolut USD account he used the chat facility again 
and spoke with an agent. The agent advised Mr K the funds had been returned as the 
transfer of $475,000 had breached the ACH transfer limit of $100,000. Attempts to trace the 
missing funds were made by Revolut and Mr K went back to his bank in the US.
The funds were credited back to Mr Ks account with his US bank on 29 September 2022. 
But Mr Ks explained that by this time, exchange rates had begun to shift substantially and 
went on to raise a complaint with Revolut.
In the days that followed, Mr K sent transfers of $25,000 to his Revolut account, totalling 
$100,000. Mr K sent the remaining $375,000 via his US bank to another bank in the UK 
where he holds a USD account. Mr Ks explained that because of the information Revolut 
gave him about ACH transfer limits, he sent the funds in batches of $100,000. But because 
of the size and frequency of the transfers, the receiving bank (B) held the payments for 
further checks which added to the delay.
Revolut issued a final response on 28 October 2022 and said the transfer had been correctly 
rejected as it breached the $100,000 ACH transfer limit. Revolut paid Mr K £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill but didnt agree to cover his foreign exchange losses. In addition, 
Revolut said Mr K was attempting to use his account for currency speculation purposes 
which was against the terms and conditions.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Revolut had dealt with Mr Ks case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr K asked to 
appeal, so his complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I contacted both Mr K and Revolut for further information. Revolut went on to confirm that Mr 
Ks funds were sent via a wire transfer, not an ACH transfer as claimed within the final 
response. I asked Revolut to show me where information about inbound USD transfer limits 
was noted in the account terms, its website or anywhere else. I also asked Revolut why no 
mention of transfer limits was made to Mr K when he used the chat facility to check 
arrangements. Revoluts responses didnt provide any guidance that showed how Mr K 
wouldve been aware of the transfer limits before he went ahead.
I asked Mr K what he after the funds were returned by Revolut. As Ive noted above, Mr K 
sent a total of $100,000 to his Revolut USD account in batches of $25,000. And Mr K sent 
the remaining funds in batches of $100,000 to his USD account with B in the UK. Mr K has 
explained that there were further delays caused by the way transfers had been made to his 
account with B which meant he wasnt able to immediately convert them to GBP. And Mr K 
explained that he had converted $250,000 into GBP leaving the $200,000 in USD while 
awaiting the outcome of his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Ive been back to Revolut on a number of occasions to try and get an 
understanding of the transfer limits it uses for inbound USD transfers and where that 
information wouldve been available for Mr K. Revoluts responses have provided links to its 
website. But the linked section of its website refers to outbound transfers and isnt relevant to 
Mr Ks case. Ive looked at the information Revoluts website gives for customers wishing to 
receive transfers into their accounts. In the section called Is there a limit on how much 
money I can add with a bank transfer? the website says There are no limits for adding 
money to your Revolut account by bank transfers. Ive reviewed Revoluts website but 
couldnt find any reference to a $100,000 inbound transfer limit for bank transfers.
Mr K took the step of talking to Revolut via its chat facility on two occasions before he made 
the transfer. Mr K was clear in explaining he intended to complete a transfer of $500,000 
(the actual transfer was for $475,000) and specifically checked whether there were any 
issues that could cause problems. The agents Mr K spoke with confirmed Revolut may carry 
out compliance checks in terms of the source of funds being transferred, but no mention of 
transfer limits was made.
Revolut has recently pointed to a section of its account terms that says Sometimes we might 
limit how much you can receive into or pay from your account But Im not persuaded that, 
in its own right, was sufficient notice to Mr K that the transfer he intended to make would 
breach the limits Revolut uses and be rejected without further reference to him.
Im satisfied that Mr K made reasonable enquiries to Revolut before he made the $475,000 
transfer on 26 September 2022. And, given the nature of Mr Ks questions and size of his 
transfer, Im satisfied the agents he spoke to shouldve told him about transfer limits that 
would stop him being able to proceed. Instead, the agents advised the only barrier to 
receiving the transfer could be a compliance check in terms of the source of Mr Ks funds 
which was not the case.Mr Ks transfer was sent back by Revolut on 26 September 2022, the date it was received. 
Revolut has since told me there is an inbound limit of $100,000 for bank transfers which is 
why Mr Ks funds were returned and that no error was made. But I think if Revolut was 
operating a transfer limit of this nature, it shouldve told Mr K when he enquired - before he 
attempted the transfer.
Mr Ks explained the transfer was time sensitive as he was due to return to the UK and was 
concerned about shifts in the exchange rate between USD and GBP. Mr Ks also pointed out 
that rates at the time were favourable and that he wanted to convert his funds to GBP before 
they moved again. So the transfer was time sensitive. And by the time Mr K was able to 
move his funds to accounts within the UK, the exchange rate had changed, leaving him with 
a substantial loss.
In its response to Mr K, Revolut said he was trying to use his account for currency 
speculation purposes which was against the terms and conditions. But Im not persuaded 
that was the case. Whilst Mr K was concerned to complete the transfer in time to get as 
good an exchange rate as possible, I havent seen any evidence of speculation. Mr K has 
explained he was returning to the UK after living in the US at the time and was making 
arrangements to transfer his money back. As Mr K was of the view rates would likely change 
in the coming days and he was returning to the UK, I havent been persuaded he was 
seeking to use his account outside of Revoluts terms and conditions.
I would add that Mr K was open and honest with the agent he spoke with before instructing 
the payment and explained he wanted to exchange $500,000 into GBP on receipt of the 
funds. If Mr K was at risk of using his account outside of its terms, I think the agent shouldve 
told him so he couldve made other arrangements. No warning of this nature was given. 
Ive considered what Mr K wouldve done differently if hed been told about the transfer limits 
Revolut uses. For example, Mr K has another USD account with B in the UK. So Mr K 
couldve arranged to send his funds to that account on 26 September 2022 by way of bank 
transfer. Or, if Revolut had told Mr K about the $100,000 limit, he couldve batched them into 
smaller payments to send to his USD account. There may have been the option to have Mr 
Ks US bank or another business convert the funds to GBP before being transferred back to 
the UK. Ive given the above as examples only to show Im satisfied Mr K wouldve had other
options if he'd been given the right advice at the outset.
In my view, had Mr K been given the correct information, he would most likely have made 
alternative arrangements to complete the transfer before the shift in exchange rates. Overall, 
Im satisfied that the way Mr Ks enquiries were handled led to a delay in completing the 
transfer process that ultimately led to a substantial loss when he converted the funds to 
GBP.
There was a delay in converting the funds from USD to GBP once transferred to B. Mr K has 
explained that due to B receiving multiple inbound transfers of  $100,000 in short 
succession, they were held for compliance checks as they appeared suspicious. But I think 
its fair to note that when looking at Mr Ks experience of completing a transfer on 26 
September 2022 and later discussing his complaint, Revolut made repeated references to 
transfer limits of $100,000. And I think that impacted how Mr K transferred funds from that 
point, causing further delays when they were picked up by B for checks.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ks case. Ive considered 
how to fairly resolve Mr Ks complaint. Mr K has explained that he went on to convert 
$250,000 to GBP at a rate of 1.26742 which was a substantially worse exchange rate when 
compared against what he wouldve received if the funds had been credited to his Revolut 
USD account on 27 September 2022 as planned and then converted to GBP. I note that when Mr K spoke with the agent on 25 September 2022 she advised he would be able to 
convert his funds to GBP as soon as they were received into his USD account. Im satisfied
thats what Mr K wouldve done if the transfer had gone through. I think the fairest approach 
is for Revolut to pay Mr K the difference between the exchange rate that was applicable for 
his account on 27 September 2022 (the day after the transfer was received by Revolut) and 
the rate he ultimately obtained when converting the $250,000 to GBP. This will be subject to 
Mr K providing evidence of the exchange rate he obtained showing the completed 
conversion.
Mr Ks provided statement evidence from B that shows he still has $200,000 in his USD 
account with B. Given it was Mr Ks intention to convert those funds to GBP, I think the 
fairest approach would be that if he completes the exchange within four weeks of 
acceptance, Revolut will pay him the difference between what he wouldve got on 27 
September 2022 and the rate hes able to obtain. If Mr K chooses not to convert the 
remaining USD to GBP, there will be no need for Revolut to compensate him further.
Ive also taken into account the way the issues raised have impacted Mr K. Im not 
persuaded that Revoluts payment of £150 is a fair reflection of what happened or the levels 
of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K over a period of several months. I think its fair 
to note the sums involved are substantial and that Mr K was making arrangements to move 
back to the UK at this time and had to take time away from work to help resolve matters. In 
my view, an increase from £150 to £500 more reasonably reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr K and is a fairer way to resolve his complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr K responded and confirmed he was willing to proceed in line with the settlement I gave in 
the provisional decision. Mr K advised hed requested evidence to show the foreign 
exchange transaction where B converted his USD to GBP. Mr K also provided a table setting 
out his calculations for a settlement. 
Revolut was sent a copy of the provisional decision by email and the investigator later sent a 
reminder that responses needed to be supplied by 28 September 2023. We didnt hear back 
from Revolut with a request for more time or a response to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response, Mr K confirmed he is willing to accept the settlement noted in the provisional 
decision. Mr K also provided estimated costings for the settlement. I can see Mr K has 
assumed a mid point reference rate for the USD to GBP conversion taken from the markets 
on 27 September 2022. But in my provisional decision I explained that Revolut should use 
the rate Mr K wouldve received if hed used his account to complete the conversion. That 
means Revolut will need to apply the rate applicable for Mr Ks account type on 27 
September 2022 which may not be in line with the calculations used. I would expect Revolut 
to provide evidence to show the applicable conversion rate on 27 September 2022 for Mr Ks 
account when settling his case. 
As Mr K has confirmed he is willing to accept and Revolut didnt respond, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ks complaint 
should be upheld, for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr K the difference between what he wouldve received if hed used his Revolut 
account to covert $250,000 to GBP on 27 September 2022 and the rate he
subsequently obtained (subject to Mr K providing evidence of the rate obtained)
- If, within four weeks of acceptance of the final decision, Mr K goes on to convert the 
remaining $200,000 to GBP, Revolut should pay him the difference between what he 
wouldve received if hed used his Revolut account on 27 September 2022 and the 
conversion rate he gets at that time (subject to evidence of the rate obtained)
- Pay Mr K a total of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman