DRN-4440624
The complaint
Mr H complains Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (SCUK) supplied him with a car that he 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr H entered into a 48 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The cars cash price was around £10,900. It was around nine years old and had covered 
over 48,000 miles. Mr H was required to pay monthly instalments of £265. 
Within days of acquiring the car, he complained there were issues with it, namely one of the 
doors wouldnt lock and the clutch was faulty. The car was returned to the dealership who 
carried out repairs. 
However despite this, Mr H complained there were still issues with the clutch and there were 
abnormal noises come from the power steering. The car was returned to the dealership for a 
second time but they said no faults could be found. Mr H complained to SCUK. 
An independent inspection was carried out in January 2023 which concluded there was an 
excessive whining noise coming from the power steering pump and an abnormal odour of 
clutch slipping. It said the faults were developing at supply and it was the dealerships 
responsibility.
Based on the above, SCUK upheld the complaint and said a further repair should be carried 
out. However the dealership said they couldnt find the fault so Mr H went back to SCUK. A 
further inspection was carried out in March 2023 and it determined the repairs had resolved 
the issues but Mr H maintained they remained.
Unhappy with the situation, he referred the complaint to our service. Given the conflicting 
information from all parties concerned, the investigator recommended a third inspection. The 
findings of that report differed from the previous two. It said there was a fault as engine 
management lights were illuminated and there was an abnormal noise coming from the 
differential on the gearbox. However it said these faults developed after supply. 
Following this further evidence, the investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. 
She believed the abnormal noises found in the third report were the same ones reported in 
the first one. Despite some repairs being carried out, she said further issues remained so 
SCUK should allow rejection. SCUK disagreed following further representations by the 
dealership. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I will explain why.
Mr H acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. SCUK was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage. The quality of goods includes other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. 
In this case, Mr H was supplied with a used car that was over nine years old and covered 
over 48,000 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered 
notable wear and tear and may need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which 
wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
Despite repeated requests, there is limited evidence about the initial faults reported by Mr H-  
that is a door wouldnt lock and the clutch was faulty. There are no job cards from the 
dealership about the repairs. However broadly speaking it appears SCUK accept these 
faults were present and repairs were carried out which included the replacement of the 
clutch. On this basis, I find there were faults with the door locking system and clutch. Given 
how soon these faults were reported after Mr H acquired the car, I find they were present at 
supply meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality (a breach of contract).
Although Mr H reported the door was fixed, within days of the car being returned to him, he 
said there remained issues with the clutch and a further issue with abnormal noises coming 
from the power steering. At this point, he complained to SCUK. Based on their contact notes, 
he asked to reject the car. 
I wish to reiterate the CRA says a consumer has 30 days to reject a car thats of 
unsatisfactory quality. It also says if the consumer agrees to a repair, the clock stops running 
during the period of any repair. On return of the car, the consumer has the remainder of the 
30 day period or 7 days (whichever is the longer) to use the short-term right to reject if the 
car is still faulty. In this case, it appears the car was returned to the dealership on two 
occasions within a 30 day period. Moreover, the first inspection report in January 2023 
concluded there were faults with the car which was the selling agents responsibility. 
Therefore its unclear why SCUK didnt allow Mr H to reject the car as he requested. The 
CRA makes it clear where there has been a breach of contract, there is one opportunity to 
repair the car and I must stress this is in relation to the car as a whole and not to each 
individual fault. As that has already happened in this case, I question why SCUK said there 
should be another opportunity of repair. I believe it wouldve been fair to have allowed Mr H 
to reject the car at that point. I dont find SCUK acted reasonably by not allowing him to do 
so. 
Despite the findings of the inspection in January 2023, its reported the dealership found no 
faults meaning no further repairs were carried out. I find this to be strange given the 
conclusions of the report. It is also worth noting there is no documentary evidence (such as 
job cards) from the dealership as to what checks were carried out so I cant say what was 
looked at or checked. Matters have moved on since then and there has been a further two inspection reports, this 
is because there is a dispute as to whether faults remain with the car. I wish to reassure all 
parties Ive carefully considered all three reports. As the findings of them are well known to 
both parties, I wont repeat them in full. But in summary, the conclusions of each one says:
1st inspection (January 2023):
When manoeuvring the vehicle and applying complete locks, there was an 
excessive whining noise heard from the power steering pump. When holding the 
steering wheel at a complete lock, the whining noise becomes worse
We would consider, based on the mileage the vehicle has covered and the MOT 
performed on 14/11/22 and the mileage taken from our instructions, we consider the 
faults were developing at purchase and are the selling agents responsibility. 
2nd inspection (March 2023):
Based on the evidence available to ourselves at the time of our inspection, on 
inspecting the repaired faults we can confirm that the repair work to the vehicle has 
been carried out to the commercially acceptable standard.
 
3rd inspection (August 2023):
We have carried out diagnostic checks and there was a diagnostic code within the 
vehicles system relating to this fault. There were no abnormal noises or operation noted 
from the vehicles steering or clutch, no abnormal smells were noted to the vehicle during 
the course of our road test
However we did note there was a noise from the differential on the gearbox when taking 
up drive and on cornering. This fault is not related to a previous repairs carried out to the 
vehicle. The vehicle has been in service for approximately 9 months and covered a 
mileage of in excess of 6,000 miles. As such, we do not consider the present faults with 
the vehicle to have been present or developing at the point of finance inception, the faults 
with the vehicle have developed after purchase.
Based on these inspection reports, its evident different conclusions have been reached. I 
must emphasise where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I note the first and third report makes reference to abnormal noises coming but they differ as 
to its source. One says it relates to the power steering, the other says its from the gearbox. 
Nevertheless its clear the noise is present and Mr H has complained about this from the 
outset. 
SCUK is likely to say the third inspection report explicitly says this noise wasnt related to the 
previous repair (referring to the second report). However there is no indication the inspector 
was made aware of the conclusions of the first report and the abnormal noises found. 
Moreover, there is no evidence any repairs were carried out by the dealership following the 
first report so I cant reasonably say they were completed to an acceptable standard as 
commented in the second report. 
Mr H has provided two videos regarding the noises, copies of the same have been provided 
to SCUK. Having watched the videos, I can hear strange noises when Mr H is driving 
particularly when turning the wheel. I dont have to be an expert in car mechanics to recognise this noise is abnormal for a car. Moreover based on the further comments from 
the dealership, they also appear to accept there are unusual noises which they suspect is 
coming from the steering wheel/column. On balance, I find its most likely these abnormal 
noises relate to a fault (source unknown) which Mr H has been complaining about from the 
beginning and two inspection reports make reference to them. In light of the same, I find this 
further fault also meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply.
Mr H says he has lost confidence in the car and given what has happened, I can understand 
why. Based on the timeline of events and the inspection findings, I find SCUK should allow 
Mr H to reject the car. For the reasons highlighted above, its unfortunate they didnt allow 
him to do so earlier back in January 2023 when he first asked. Had they done so, matters 
couldve been resolved sooner and additional trouble and upset avoided. 
To put things right, SCUK should end the agreement, collect the car and refund the deposit 
paid. Mr H has covered over 6,000 miles since he acquired the car so despite the above 
faults, it is clear hes had use of it. Therefore its fair he pays for this so Im not asking SCUK 
to refund the monthly instalments paid. I note Mr Hs comments that while the car was left at 
the dealership, they covered an additional 800 miles without his consent to do so. However I 
have insufficient evidence to say this happened. 
As a result of being supplied with a faulty car, Mr H has mentioned he has incurred costs 
such as the cost of recovery (around £60) when the car broke down shortly after acquiring it. 
This should be refunded by SCUK.
From my understanding when the car was initially in for repairs in December 2022, Mr H was 
supplied with a courtesy car and SCUK agreed to pay £400 for the trouble and upset caused 
by the events up to that point. Given what has happened since including the further faults, 
trips to the garage, and further inconvenience, I agree with the investigator that SCUK 
should pay an additional £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (meaning a 
total of £650 compensation).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
  
To put things right, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr H to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
- Refund the deposit*;
- Refund the cost of the cars recovery (subject to evidence being provided)*
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Hs credit file;
- Pay a further £250 compensation to Mr H for the trouble and upset caused. 
*SCUK should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds calculated from 
the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
*If SCUK Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my award it 
should provide Mr H with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim 
that amount if he is entitled to do so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman