DRN-3634175
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Zurich Assurance Limited because it didnt accurately update his 
income protection cover.
What happened
Mr S has an income protection policy with Zurich. He took the policy out in the early nineties 
when he was employed. The policy was sold and administered on an advised basis. In 1992, 
he met with his adviser and explained that hed been promoted and so he needed to 
increase his cover. Then, shortly after this, Mr S became self-employed. 
Mr S said he told Zurich about this but his details werent updated. Mr S said he became a 
partner in his company and then a director and that the change of circumstances wasnt 
accurately recorded and that he didnt receive any further advice  which he believes should 
have happened. Mr S said Zurich had a responsibility to record the details of his meetings 
with the adviser, including completion of a fact find. Mr S was sadly diagnosed with cancer 
and his claim was declined. And so, Mr S said the policy was unsuitable. 
Zurich said theres no record of Mr S meeting with its adviser after 1992. It said it continued 
to send annual statements which confirmed cover information and that it should have 
prompted Mr S to review his benefit. It also said the policy was suitable for his needs when 
he initially took it out and that it was his responsibility to ensure his information was accurate.
Our investigator agreed with Zurich. He explained because there was no record of him 
meeting with an adviser after 1992 to update his employment details, theres effectively no 
evidence to support his argument. He also said the policy was suitable for self-employed 
consumers, but that Mr S would need to show a loss of income. 
Mr S, still unhappy, asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said itd be difficult 
for him to evidence an immediate loss of income because of the way he operates his 
business. He also said that he should have received suitable advice about his policy when 
his employment status changed and that Zurich had an obligation to record the details of the 
meetings he had. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because I agree with our 
investigators findings and so theres little more I can add to his opinion. Mr S employment 
details werent accurately updated, but that doesnt automatically mean that his policy was 
unsuitable. Ill explain why.
It's not in dispute that Mr S met with an adviser in the early nineties, I say that because 
theres evidence of those meetings. Ive seen the initial application form for cover, as well as 
the advisers notes when the level of cover was increased because Mr S received a 
promotion and a pay rise. But Ive not seen any evidence of meetings having taken place 
after that. I accept that Mr S said he met with his adviser a few times after this, but without 
any records of those meetings, Im unable to reach a determination about what was 
discussed. 
Our investigator asked Zurich whether it had had records of those meetings, but it said there 
was no information available. Mr S hasnt provided any evidence of those meetings, other 
than his testimony, but theres nothing to corroborate that, like the advisers notes and so 
theres nothing more I can helpfully add here. I note from the evidence available that Mr S, in 
1999, gave authority to an independent financial adviser firm that requested information 
about Mr S plans, and so there could be a chance that the meetings hes referring to took 
place with one of its advisers and not Zurich. 
I should also note that Mr S policy provides cover for consumers that are self-employed and 
so I disagree that its unsuitable on that basis. I understand Mr S argument that itd be 
difficult for him to evidence a loss should he be unable to work, but that also doesnt mean 
the policy is unsuitable. Hed need to find a way to satisfactorily show the financial impact of 
his absence. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman