DRN-3442133
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him. 
Background
In February 2018, Mr R received a payment of £1,000.00 into his Barclays account. The 
funds were quickly spent through a combination of debit card transactions and cash machine 
withdrawals. Barclays subsequently received a notification from a third-party bank saying its 
customer, who was Mr Rs ex-wife, had reported the £1,000.00 had been transferred from 
her account without her permission. Barclays reviewed Mr Rs account and closed it in 
March 2018. It then went on to register a fraud prevention marker against him. 
After learning that Barclays had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him, Mr R 
complained to Barclays. Barclays looked at Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr R 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
enough to show that Mr R was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Mr R. Barclays disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr R is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Rs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr R was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr R allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Rs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Rs account and that he was complicit 
in this. Its important to note Barclays had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of 
test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I dont think that Barclays did enough to establish that Mr Rs 
account had been in receipt of fraudulent funds. I accept that Barclays did receive a 
notification from Mr Rs ex-wifes bank confirming that shed reported that a £1,000.00 
transfer had been made from her account without her knowledge or permission. So I can 
understand why Barclays had concerns about this credit. 
However, as Ive already explained, this in itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention 
marker against a customer. Barclays also had to have sufficient evidence to show Mr R was 
complicit in fraudulent activity. And I dont think that it had this here.
I say this because Barclays recorded the fraud marker without obtaining Mr Rs version of 
events. I accept that its records suggest that it sent a letter to Mr R, on 5 March 2018, 
explaining that his account had been blocked and that he needed to get in contact. But this 
was after the funds which remained in his account had already been returned. And while    
Mr Rs failure to respond to its letter may well have been an appropriate reason to close his 
account (Mr R has said he didnt respond because he was in the middle of resolving his 
divorce), I dont think that it automatically follows that it was fair and reasonable to also 
record a fraud marker.
Mr R has since said that he had his wages paid into his ex-wifes account and she regularly 
made transfers to him. Having looked through copies of the ledgers Barclays has provided 
its clear that Mr Rs ex-wife did make account transfers to him and as far as I can see he 
wasnt receiving a regular income into this account either. So it isnt immediately apparent to 
me that this transfer into Mr Rs account was unusual or out of the ordinary. Indeed, I note 
that Barclays records appear to suggest that its investigator thought that the fraud 
notification may have been borne out of a civil dispute and wanted to wait for Mr Rs account 
of events before proceeding.
Barclays response to our adjudicators assessment queried whether shed contacted the 
third-party bank to ask what evidence it had to support its fraud notification. I have to say 
that I find Barclays comments to be incredibly disappointing as this is information it should 
have obtained in March 2018 before deciding it had enough to record a fraud marker against 
Mr R in the first place. 
Ive also considered what Barclays has said about the funds being removed from Mr Rs 
account quickly. I accept that this did happen. But looking through the ledgers, its clear that 
Mr R regularly withdrew funds from cash machines and he was only ever in credit by small 
amounts. So I dont think that the funds being used and withdrawn in the way they were was 
necessarily unusual, or indicative of Mr R having fraudulently obtained the funds in question.     
More importantly it is Barclays responsibility to demonstrate that Mr R was knowingly 
involved in fraudulent activity. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Barclays needed 
to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. 
Simply pointing out that it had received a notification, from a third-party, that fraudulent 
activity took place  especially where it didnt obtain the necessary evidence to corroborate this and it appeared to accept there might have been a reasonable explanation for the 
transfer in question - just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case 
seeing as the facts and circumstances of this case appear to support Mr Rs version of 
events being plausible.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays had sufficient evidence 
to meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr R. As this is the case, I think that it 
was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
So Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and Barclays needs to remove any and all fraud markers 
it has recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman