DRN-3619887
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Credit Suisse (UK) Limited (Credit Suisse) managed his 
mortgage.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr R took out a five-year interest-only mortgage for £3,450,000 on a 
LIBOR linked variable rate product. 
On 5 June 2020, Credit Suisse contacted Mr R to say that it needed to carry out a desktop 
valuation of the property. After it carried out the valuation Credit Suisse requested a payment 
of £270,000 from Mr R in accordance with the terms and conditions of his mortgage.
Mr R complains that Credit Suisse wasnt clear when he got the mortgage that it could carry 
out a mid-term valuation and demand more money from him during the life of his mortgage. 
He also feels that the valuation wasnt carried out fairly as he doesnt think it accounted for 
all the aspects of aspects of the property. 
Mr R paid his mortgage on a quarterly basis. However, Mr R complains that Credit Suisse 
mistakenly took an extra £20,000 from his account each month for around 14 months. Mr R 
complains that when Credit Suisse refunded him for that it didnt pay him interest.
The valuation was made on the basis that the property was to be let. Mr R says that hed told 
Credit Suisse about plans to rent out the property and sent Credit Suisse draft tenancy 
agreements on 30 June 2020. However, he went on to tell Credit Suisse that hed decided 
against renting the property out on 3 July 2020. 
Credit Suisse sent Mr R a copy of the valuation on 9 November 2020. On 20 November 
2020, Mr R told Credit Suisse that the valuation incorrectly stated the property would be 
rented out, and it increased their valuation from £5,167,500 to £5,300,000.
Mr R complained to Credit Suisse about the valuation and the service hed received on 18 
January 2021. He also complained about the frequency and tone of contact from Credit 
Suisse. He says it harassed him and used homophobic language towards him.
Credit Suisse sent their final response letter on 15 April 2021. In that letter it said it had 
acted appropriately and within the terms and conditions of the mortgage overall. It said it had 
given staff feedback about some language used. It said it wasnt responsible for taking the 
monthly payments from Mr R. However, it accepted that there had been a misunderstanding 
about how he intended to use his property. To apologise for its mistakes, Credit Suisse 
offered to refund Mr R the £1,800 valuation fee. Mr R didnt think that was enough so he 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said she thought Credit Suisse was entitled 
to carry out the valuation when it did, and that it carried out the valuation in line with the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage. Thats because Mr Rs mortgage agreement said that 
it was only available for loans with a maximum loan to value (LTV Percentage) of 60% of 
the Value of the property. 
The agreement also said that If at any time the loan divided by the Value of the Property 
(expressed as a percentage) exceeds the LTV Percentage, you agree to provide such 
further security or cash cover in the amount of the excess.
After Mr R told Credit Suisse that his property wouldnt be rented out, it was valued at 
£5,300,000. That valuation took the Loan to Value (LTV) to 65.09%. As the terms of the 
mortgage said the LTV must be kept at or below 60%, our investigator thought Credit Suisse 
was entitled to take £270,000 from Mr R to keep the LTV of his mortgage below 60%. .
Our investigator thought that Credit Suisse had accounted for all aspects of Mr Rs property 
in the valuation. She understood why Mr R was unhappy about the monthly payments that 
were taken from the bank account linked to the mortgage from April 2018 to June 2019, but 
she thought they were made by standing order or transfer as opposed to direct debit. That 
meant it wasnt Credit Suisse that controlled the payments. She could see that Credit Suisse 
refunded all the additional payments after Mr R raised the matter and that the payments 
were visible on the statements Credit Suisse sent Mr R. So she didnt think Credit Suisse 
needed to refund the payments with interest.
Our investigator also looked into Credit Suisses contact with Mr R. She appreciated that 
Mr R had found its contact excessive, but she wasnt persuaded by that. She thought that it 
only contacted him to carry out its contractual obligations and ask him for information it 
needed to do this. She appreciated that Mr R had been upset by language a member of staff 
had used, but she thought that giving feedback to staff and offering to refund the £1,800 
valuation fee was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. Mr R appeared to accept a lot of what our investigator 
said. He responded to our investigators view by saying:
he thought the timing of the valuation was unfair;
he wasnt given the opportunity to give Credit Suisse further security after the 
valuation was carried out; and
he didnt think the £1,800 compensation offered was enough.
For completeness I will say here that Mr R has also made a separate complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service about the sale of the mortgage and what he was told about it 
at the time. So I havent considered that issue in this complaint. I can also see that in his 
initial complaint to Credit Suisse Mr R also complained that Credit Suisse had made 
mistakes relating to his residency. That issue appears to have been resolved as Mr R didnt 
discuss that issue with our investigator, so I havent considered that issue in this decision 
either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached. Ill explain why.
The property valuationHaving considered the terms and conditions of Mr Rs mortgage, I also think that Credit 
Suisse was entitled to ask for the valuation to be carried out, and for Mr R to pay for that 
valuation. Thats because section 18 the general terms and conditions that apply to the 
mortgage say: On the third anniversary of the First Drawdown Date we will, at your sole 
cost and expense, request our nominated valuer to provide us with an up-to-date 
professional valuation of the property, in form and substance acceptable to us and 
addressed to us.
Credit Suisse has accepted it didnt specifically say that such a valuation could be carried 
out when Mr R got the mortgage. However, I wouldnt expect a business to tell consumers 
about every term in their mortgage, especially terms such as this one that wouldnt apply to 
all customers. 
I can see that the mortgage offer document sets out the requirements of the mortgage 
clearly. The LTV requirements (and what would happen in the LTV went above 60%) are set 
out on the third page of the mortgage offer. So I think they were in a reasonably prominent 
position. I think Credit Suisse could reasonably expect Mr R look at the offer document it 
sent Mr R.
Mr R feels Credit Suisse acted unfairly when it arranged for the valuation to be carried out 
when it did. The valuation was carried out around two months before the third anniversary of 
the First Drawdown Date at a time when Mr R says Brexit and the Covid-19 had brought 
about extremely volatile market conditions.
I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling about this point. However, I dont think its fair to say 
that Credit Suisse acted unfairly when it carried out the valuation around two months early at 
a time when the housing in the area where the property is located was affected by the 
market conditions in that area. I say that because I dont think its likely that carrying out the 
valuation around two months early was likely to have had a material impact on the valuation. 
Im also conscious that Mr R had agreed to the following term in his mortgage:
You agree that so long as any liability and/or commitment to us remains outstanding under 
the Facility Agreement you will provide us with an up to date independent valuation of the 
Property in a form and by a valuer acceptable to us, as and when such a valuation is 
requested by us. All professional charges in this respect will be for your account.
I appreciate that Mr R is likely to disagree about this point. He has said it was manifestly 
unfair for Credit Suisse to carry out a valuation at that time. But Im not persuaded by that. 
Mr Rs mortgage term was relatively short  it was a five-year interest-only mortgage taken 
out in December 2017. So I can understand why there were terms in the mortgage designed 
to ensure that Credit Suisse was able to value the mortgage during that term so that it could 
ensure that the security it had taken was sufficient throughout the life of the mortgage. I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Credit Suisse should have decided not to 
carry out the valuation/postponed the valuation because of Brexit or the covid-19 pandemic. 
Neither of those issues were short term issues. 
Initially Mr R said he didnt think all aspects of his property  including private outdoor 
spaces and the underground parking space - were covered in the valuation. Mr R seems to 
have accepted that they were now. But for completeness I will say here that having 
considered the valuation I think it did do this. I think Credit Suisse carried out the valuation 
fairly.
Theres no dispute that Credit Suisse carried out the valuation on the basis that it was going 
to be let, after Mr R had let it know that hed changed his mind and had decided against 
letting the property. I can see that Credit Suisse has apologised for that mistake. It amended the valuation to reflect the change and offered to refund Mr R the £1,800 valuation fee. I 
think that was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the issue given the nature of Credit 
Suisses mistake and the fact that it acted to amend the valuation promptly after Mr R had 
told it about its mistake. 
Mr Rs property was valued at £5,300,000 once Credit Suisse amended it to reflect the fact 
that Mr R wasnt going to let it out. That valuation took the Loan to Value (LTV) to 65.09%. 
The terms of Mr Rs mortgage were clear that the LTV had to be kept at or below 60%. In the 
event that the LTV was above 60%, further security or a cash payment was needed to 
ensure the LTV remained at or below 60%. 
The margin call
Mr R has complained that Credit Suisse sought more money from him to do this. He says he 
was not offered the opportunity to provide additional security instead even though Credit 
Suisse knew that Mr R and his husband had other significant assets.
Ive considered a letter (the margin call) dated 7 January 2021 that Credit Suisse says it 
sent Mr R by email on 8 January 2021. That states that as the LTV was currently at 65.09%
We therefore ask, in accordance with the Facility Agreement, you to provide Further 
Security or cash cover in the amount of GBP 270,000.00 to us by 20 January 2021.
So I think that Mr R was given the opportunity to respond to that letter and provide additional 
security had he intended to do so. 
Credit Suisse has said that in any event the margin call wasnt enforced. I can see that a 
number of substantial additional payments were transferred from the current account linked 
to Mr Rs mortgage from April 2018 to June 2019. Credit Suisse refunded all these additional 
payments to Mr R after he complained that theyd been made without his permission.
Ive looked into who was responsible for making those payments. Having considered the 
available information, I think those payments were made by standing order or transfer as 
opposed to by direct debit. If Mr R didnt make those payments himself I think its likely, on 
the balance of probabilities, that they were made by someone managing his account for him 
 not Credit Suisse. As I dont think it was likely that Credit Suisse was responsible for 
making them. It follows that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require 
Credit Suisse to pay Mr R interest on those payments for the time he was without that 
money. I can see that Credit Suisse sent Mr R bank statements during this period, so he was 
in a position to see that those payment had been made. I think Credit Suisse could 
reasonably expect Mr R to look at the statements it sent him.
Credit Suisses Service and Administration
Mr R has complained about the frequency, language and tone of Credit Suisses contact with 
him.
Ive considered the available information about this contact. Having done so I dont think 
Credit Suisse threatened Mr R or that its contact amounted to harassment as Mr R has said. 
I can see that on occasions Credit Suisse kept asking Mr R for certain information, and at 
times the tone used was direct. I appreciate how annoying Mr R found that, but Im 
conscious that Credit Suisse needed to be sent documentation related to his mortgage in 
accordance with the contract. So I dont think it was unreasonable for it to request this and 
explain the consequences of not providing the information.I can see that Credit Suisse apologised to Mr R for the tone/language its staff used on 
certain occasions and said it had given feedback to them. I think thats a reasonable thing for 
it to do to resolve that issue.
Mr R has complained that a member of Credit Suisses staff referred to Mr Rs husband as 
his partner. On a phone call to Credit Suisse Mr R complained about this saying it was 
almost homophobic. Mr R hasnt been specific about other times he thinks Credit Suisse 
discriminated against him/was homophobic, but its clear that this is still an issue he is very 
unhappy about.
Discrimination can have a specific legal meaning  its the unlawful behaviour set out in the 
Equality Act 2010. The Equality Act applies to Credit Suisse, and its something Ive taken 
into account in this case. 
Ive used the words taken into account because it isnt for me to make a finding on matters 
of law in my decisions. Thats a matter for the courts. Nor is it for me to act as a regulator 
and decide whether Credit Suisse breached relevant regulations. However, I have 
considered the Equality Act, and discrimination in the wider sense. Ive thought about 
whether Mr R has been treated unfairly, and if he has, whether that unfair treatment was 
because of who he is. Having considered all the available information in this complaint, Im 
not persuaded that he was discriminated against because of who he is.
Conclusion
Credit Suisse has agreed to reimburse the £1,800 valuation fee it charged to resolve this 
complaint.
Mr R has said that he doesnt think thats enough given the loss he feels he has incurred 
overall, the fact that his mortgage was regulated, the amounts involved and the value of the 
underlying asset. He has told us that £1,800 is not remotely proportional compensation.
I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling about this complaint. However, I think its worth me 
saying here that my awards arent intended to punish Credit Suisse for its mistakes. 
Although I appreciate that Mr R thinks compensation should be in proportion to the value of 
his mortgage/the value of his property, thats not how my awards are determined. My role is 
to try to resolve this complaint by considering Credit Suisses mistakes in a way thats fair 
and reasonable. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to award Mr R more 
compensation than I would normally do for such complaints because hed taken out a 
£3,450,000 mortgage.
I think the £1,800 compensation Credit Suisse has effectively offered Mr R is a fair and 
reasonable amount to resolve this complaint. It covers the mistakes Credit Suisse made with 
its initial valuation, the delay this caused to the valuation being completed and the direct tone 
of some of Credit Suisses contact with Mr R. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Credit Suisse (UK) Limited should pay Mr R the £1,800 it has 
offered to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Laura ForsterOmbudsman