DRN-2607239
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly declined her claim on her property owners insurance policy.
Mrs Z is being represented in her complaint. But I will only refer to Mrs Z in my decision.
What happened
Mrs Z insures a property she owns with NFU. She says the tenant that moved out in January 
2020 damaged the carpets and failed to clean the guttering and drains. The tenants were 
required to do this under the terms of their tenancy agreement. She says the failure also 
caused black mould and damp damage. So Mrs Z claimed on her property owners 
insurance as it provided cover for Accidental and Malicious Damage, which she felt this was. 
But NFU declined the claim. 
NFU say that Mrs Z contacted them in July 2020 to log the claim for the damage Mrs Z says 
her previous tenants caused when they left the property in January 2020. They say that they 
received photos of the damage in late July 2020. They say that when they spoke to Mrs Z 
after theyd seen the photos, they told her that the claim might not be covered. They say they 
also requested a copy of the tenancy agreement. 
Mrs Z complained to this service in August 2020. But NFU say that they didnt hear from Mrs 
Z until they received her complaint on 11 October 2020, although the complaint was dated 
18 August 2020. They note that at this point her claim hadnt been formally declined. 
But when NFU reviewed the claim, they confirmed there was no cover. They said the 
guttering was a maintenance issue and the damage to the carpets was due to wear and tear. 
So they didnt uphold Mrs Zs complaint. As Mrs Z disagreed her complaint came back to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought NFU had acted reasonably when 
theyd declined the claim due to wear and tear and maintenance issues, which werent 
insured. Mrs Z didnt agree so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Malicious damage isnt defined in the policy. But the fair meaning typically adopted is 
damage caused deliberately with the intent to cause harm. Its more than the tenant simply 
acting without any care. 
Mrs Z says that under the tenancy agreement the tenant is responsible for ensuring the 
guttering is clear, and the agreement didnt allow pets. But even though the staining on the 
carpet couldve been caused by pets, and the gutters werent cleared, this wouldn't mean 
that the damage was caused maliciously. Damage caused through neglect or poor 
maintenance wouldn't be covered under this term. In fact, 3.17.3 of the tenancy agreement 
states that the tenants are responsible for the costs of repairing any damage caused by pets.
In order to say that the damage was malicious, I consider that thered need to be an element 
of the tenants actions that was intended to harm Mrs Z. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think theres enough to suggest that the damage was done with intent to cause harm. It 
may well have been careless. But thats not enough to conclude that the damage was done 
maliciously. So Ive gone on to consider whether the damage can instead be said to have 
been caused accidentally. 
For there to be a valid claim under the accidental damage section of the policy, the damage
would need to be sudden and unexpected. Having considered the evidence, I can see that 
this isnt the case here. It seems that the damage to Mrs Zs carpets is much more likely the 
result of wear and tear or gradual damage. Also, the blocked guttering cant be said to be 
accidental (or malicious for that matter). So its not unreasonable for NFU to conclude  in 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary  that the damage was more likely a result of 
gradual wear and tear/lack of maintenance rather than any single accidental or malicious 
event. 
So, given that the damage caused can neither be said to be malicious nor accidental, and 
there is no other insured peril under which the damage caused to the property reasonably 
falls, I consider it was fair for NFU to decline the claim. So I wont be asking them to take any 
further action.
Based on all of the above, I cant see a valid insurance peril so Im satisfied NFU have acted 
fairly by declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman