DRN-4021720
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2019, Mr F purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr F financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Fs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had misrepresented the system as self-funding, in 
that the income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments, and this induced 
Mr F to enter into the contract.
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr F or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and they didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr F was not shown a comparison between the costs on the credit agreement and 
the benefits of the system shown on the contract.
Mr F was told the system would be self-funding, with the benefits covering the costs. 
Mr F wouldnt have purchased the system if hed been made aware of the costs and 
benefits shown on the sales documents. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr F could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr F and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and contract variation.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The contract variation shows the total one-year benefit on the original contract was 444.21. 
But that due to limitations at the property, the installed system was expected to prodsuce a 
one-year benefit of £434.67, made up of feed-in tariff payments of £126.09 for generation 
and £87.17 for export, and electricity savings of £221.41 (assuming Mr F used 50% of the 
electricity generated).
Analysis
I think the credit agreement and contract variation are important evidence of the information 
that Mr F was provided at the time of sale. He signed both documents, and I think it is likely 
they wouldve formed the basis of discussions. 
While the contract variation was provided after Mr F had in principle agreed to enter into the 
contract, he was not obliged to sign the contract variation and couldve cancelled the 
purchase. He didnt do so. And the contract variation shows benefits that are only slightly 
less than on the original contract. 
The benefits shown on the original contract and on the contract variation were not sufficient 
to cover the loan repayments on an annual (or monthly) basis, both being much less than 
the loan repayments. 
While Ive taken account of what Mr F recalls, I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve 
represented the system as self-funding on a monthly basis while providing clear 
documentation that showed it would not be. 
Mr F may have been told the system would be self-funding overall, in that the benefits over 
the lifetime of the system would exceed what he paid for it  given the system is expected to 
last 25 years and the income and savings would increase due to inflation, whereas the loan 
repayments are fixed and end after ten years. 
SummaryHaving carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr F 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman