DRN-2847919
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside her credit card.
What happened
In February 1999, Miss B took out a monthly premium PPI policy on a Halifax credit 
card. This was sold to her at a meeting with the bank.
If she made a successful claim, the PPI policy wouldve covered her for up to 12 
months per successful claim for accident, sickness and unemployment. The policy 
also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint, concluding that Halifax had made it 
clear that the policy was optional and the policy appeared suitable for Miss Bs needs 
and circumstances.
Miss B didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said, through her representative, that 
as she had a hearing impairment she would usually apply for things online or through a 
text relay service. This was because she struggles to hear clearly enough what advisors 
are saying. She said when she applied for her Halifax credit card at a meeting with the 
bank, once the advisor told her where to sign, she couldnt hear clearly enough what they 
were saying, and just signed where they told her to. She said, if the terms of this policy 
had been properly explained, she wouldnt have agreed to take out PPI as she couldnt 
afford it and was applying for the credit card to get her finances back on track.
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Bs compalint because my reasons were a bit 
different from our investigators. I invited both Miss B and Bank of Scotland to let me have 
any further points they wanted me to consider, before I issued my final decision..
Neither Miss B nor Bank of Scotland made any further respresentaions, so Miss Bs 
complaint comes back to me to decide.
What Ive decided- and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here.
As neither Miss B nor Bank of Scotland having anything further to add, my decision is the 
same as set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. Im not upholding Miss 
Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional and that she didnt 
have to take it to get the credit card. I cant know what was discussed at the time 
Miss B took out the card and PPI.
We asked Miss B whether she recalled telling the advisor about her hearing 
impairment at the time of sale. Given how long ago this was, understandably she 
couldnt remember. We asked Halifax if its records showed that it was aware of Miss 
Bs hearing impairment at the time of sale. It said this wasnt apparent from the 
records still held.
Banks often only keep records for up to six years.
Where the evidence is inconclusive, contradictory or incomplete, I make my decision 
on the balance or probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened given the evidence available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I have looked at Miss Bs credit card application from the time of sale. I can see from 
her application that Miss B had to give the advisor her personal details, including her 
address, her mobile and home telephone numbers, her occupation and how much 
she was earning to apply for the card. She also had to say during which part of the 
month she wanted her repayments deducted. This was all typed into the application.
I can also see there was a box to select, if the customer wanted PPI. There was a cross 
in the box selecting PPI on the form Miss B signed. There wasnt a cross in the box next 
to Card Protection selecting that optional product.
I think it likely, given the detailed information taken down about Miss Bs personal 
circumstances, that she wouldve been asked to look over the form before she signed 
it. I think it wouldve been clear from looking at the form that PPI had been selected. I 
think, on balance, Miss B probably wouldve understood she didnt have to take the 
optional products listed, because she didnt opt to take out Card Protection. I think 
probably Miss B and the advisor were able to exchange information in such a way that 
Miss B understood what she was applying for and agreed to take it out, knowing she 
didnt have to have PPI.
I think it likely that Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss B. That means that it had to 
consider whether it was suitable for her needs and circumstances. It also had to give 
her clear and fair information about the PPI so she could decide for herself if she 
wanted to buy it.
Looking at Miss Bs circumstances at the time of the sale, I cant see that PPI was 
unsuitable for her, in her circumstances. I say this because:
she was eligible to take out the PPI;
Miss B said she wouldve got less than three months worth of sick pay from 
her employer. The policy wouldve covered her for up to 12 months per 
successful claim for accident and sickness, longer than her work benefits 
wouldve covered her for. It wouldve also covered her for unemployment and it 
provided life cover; and
Miss B said she had no other means of making her repayments.
So, I think PPI couldve provided Miss B with valuable protection in her circumstances, if 
she wasnt working.
Miss B had a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the time of sale (her hearing 
impairment), but she said she hadnt had to take time off work because of it. So, I cant see that having more information about the things that the policy didnt cover wouldve 
made a difference to her decision to buy the policy. I dont think that Miss B wouldve 
thought shed need to take time off work because of her PEMC. And I cant see that 
Miss B was otherwise affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the policy, 
so I still think it couldve been useful to her in her circumstances.
Miss B said she couldnt afford to take out the PPI because she was in financial difficulty 
at the time and was taking the credit card out to get her finances on track. I cant know 
what Miss Bs circumstances were at the time, but I note that the bank was prepared to 
give her a credit card to access credit. She couldve cancelled the monthly PPI premiums 
at any time, so I cant see that the policy was obviously unaffordable for her.
I have considered whether, if Miss B had been provided with more information by Halifax, 
it wouldve affected her decision to take out the policy. But, for the reasons explained 
above, I cant currently see that she wouldve made a different decision and not bought 
PPI.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Miss B.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because it got a 
high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell her, that was 
unfair. To put that right, Halifax has paid Miss B back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is 
fair in this case. So I think Halifax has already compensated Miss B for the 
commission and profit share that was over 50% of her PPI premiums. So. I do not 
consider that Halifax needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given I do  not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I dont think the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  which means that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
As Bank of Scotland plc has already paid back any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, I am not making any 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman