DRN-3545439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt offer support with
their mortgage when they had financial difficulties. They ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2008. Theyve had financial difficulties 
since 2013. Mrs B says the lack of support from Halifax led to their credit rating being 
damaged and arrears being added to the account.
Both Mr and Mrs B have suffered health problems over the last few years. Mrs B says 
Halifax used high pressure tactics to recover the debt without regard to their circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B repaid most of the arrears in late 2020 from an inheritance, and repaid the 
remaining mortgage balance in September 2021 from another inheritance.
Mrs B says their main complaint is that if theyd been given a payment holiday in 2013 their 
account would have been in better standing when they experienced further financial 
problems a few years later. She also complains that Halifax threatened to take possession 
despite Government guidance not to do so during the Covid-19 pandemic and suggested 
they take a lodger when they needed to shield.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I intended to uphold the complaint 
and order Halifax to pay compensation of £300. In summary, I thought Halifax had treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly except for the period between April and August 2020. 
Halifax agreed to pay the compensation. Mrs B didnt agree theyd been treated fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have had to deal with redundancy, financial hardship, health issues and 
deaths in their families. Im sorry for what Mr and Mrs B have had to deal with. These events 
meant Mr and Mrs B struggled to meet their mortgage payments.
Our investigator commented in detail on what had happened since 2013. I wont set out the 
same level of detail here. Ill focus on the issues at the heart of the complaint brought to us 
by Mr and Mrs B. That is, whether Halifax offered Mr and Mrs B appropriate support when 
they had financial difficulties in 2013 and since, and whether it treated them fairly during the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Should Halifax have offered a payment holiday in 2013?
During the Covid-19 pandemic, the regulator said lenders should offer payment deferrals for 
up to three months (later extended to six months) to help customers experiencing difficulties 
due to the pandemic. The special terms set out by the regulator  that payment deferrals 
should be offered with minimum formality, that arrears accrued during that period could be 
capitalised and the payment deferral wouldnt affect customers credit files  were in place for 
a short period as a response to the particularly challenging circumstances of the pandemic. 
These terms were not in place in 2013.
Although sometimes referred to as a payment holiday, a more accurate term is payment 
deferral. Payments due during the deferral period still have to be made, for instance by 
higher monthly payments after the deferral period ends.
Mr and Mrs B experienced financial hardship in 2013 and asked Halifax for help. Lenders 
should consider a range of options and concessions to offer suitable support to customers in 
financial difficulty. They dont have to reduce the interest rate or offer the option that the 
customer prefers.
Halifax offered reduced payment arrangements to Mr and Mrs B. It agreed to accept 
payments that were lower than the contractual monthly payment (CMP) for set periods. The 
difference between the amount paid and the CMP accrued as arrears. Halifaxs records say 
it told Mr and Mrs B that the arrangement would result in arrears, interest would be applied 
to a higher balance and it could affect their credit files. Based on Halifaxs records, it seems 
Mr and Mrs B expected in 2013 that their financial problems would be temporary. I dont 
think it was unfair for Halifax to offer reduced payment arrangements.
I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs account would have been in a better position if Halifax had 
offered a payment deferral. The difference between the amount paid and the CMP would still 
have accrued as arrears and this would have been recorded on their credit files. They would 
have had to repay the arrears at some point. This would also have been the case if Halifax 
had offered an interest only concession.
Halifax offered to look into capitalising Mr and Mrs Bs arrears in 2015. Mr and Mrs B 
declined. Mrs B says this was because they thought theyd fail the credit search. I havent 
seen anything to suggest Halifax told Mrs B this was a requirement  in fact its notes say it 
told her capitalisation didnt involve a credit check. Mr and Mrs B later said theyd like to 
capitalise the arrears, but didnt at that time meet Halifaxs criteria.
I think Halifax treated Mr and Mrs B fairly when offering reduced payment arrangements 
during periods of financial difficulty and when considering capitalising the arrears on their 
account.
Should Halifax have offered a switch to interest only?
Mrs B asked Halifax about switching to an interest only mortgage in March 2019. This is one 
of the calls where Mrs B says the call handler was rude, didnt listen and questioned how 
shed spent money. Ive listened to the call and I dont think the call handler spoke to Mrs B 
inappropriately. Mrs B was clearly frustrated. She said shed been told by a third party that 
switching to interest only payments with repayment funded by the sale of the property at the 
end of the term was the best option. The call handler set out Halifaxs criteria for a switch to 
interest only, such as that the account wasnt in arrears and there was a suitable repayment 
vehicle, but said she couldnt answer Mrs Bs other questions and suggested she speak to a 
mortgage adviser at a branch.
Halifax declined Mrs Bs request to switch to an interest only mortgage in June 2019. It said 
Mr and Mrs B didnt meet its criteria, including her repayment plan (waiting to inherit a 
property from a relative). I dont think Halifax treated Mrs B unfairly regarding her request to 
switch to interest only terms.Did Halifax give Mrs B incorrect information during the Covid-19 pandemic?
Halifax says it didnt offer a payment deferral in 2020 because Mr and Mrs B didnt request it, 
and this was customer led. Mrs B says she was told they didnt meet criteria for a payment 
deferral.
Either way, I dont think Halifax was fair here. The regulators guidance at that time said that 
if a customer provides information suggesting theyre experiencing difficulties as a result of 
the pandemic lenders should offer a payment deferral. The guidance applied regardless of 
whether the account was in arrears. Lenders werent required to investigate the customers 
circumstances. The guidelines also said lenders should not start or continue possession 
proceedings at that time.
Mrs B called Halifax in April 2020 to discuss their circumstances. They were experiencing 
financial hardship and looking into what benefits they could claim following a change in their 
circumstances. Halifaxs records say it suggested Mrs B get a lodger to help with income. 
This was an inappropriate suggestion during the pandemic and National lock down, 
especially as Mrs B had told Halifax about their health issues which required them to shield. 
Halifaxs notes say action was on hold (due to the general moratorium on possession 
proceedings and later due to Mr and Mrs Bs vulnerability) and that Mrs B was told this. 
In August 2020 Halifax told Mrs B it would pass the account to its legal team if a payment 
wasnt made within three weeks. It said it had put numerous holds on action, the account 
had been in arrears for a long time and it would need regular payments to be made before it 
could set up an arrangement. Halifax said this was fair given the level of arrears (almost 
£13,000 at that time) and its previous forbearance. It says this conversation might have been 
the reason Mr and Mrs B made lump sum payments to reduce their arrears in November 
2020, and litigation activity was in line with the mortgage terms and conditions.
In normal circumstances, it might have been fair for Halifax to take this approach. But these 
were not normal circumstances. I dont think Halifax applied the regulators guidance fairly or 
treated Mr and Mrs B fairly between April and August 2020. I think it should have offered a 
payment deferral, or explained why a different option was in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests. 
And it wasnt fair to suggest in August 2020 that it would start legal action.
I dont think this made a significant difference to the eventual outcome  Mr and Mrs B had 
arrears of about £10,000 by April 2020 and their problems were long standing. They were 
only able to repay the mortgage due to an inheritance. But Mrs B found the August call 
upsetting, quite understandably. If a payment deferral had been in place Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have had to worry about missed payments and losing their home during the first 
part of the pandemic, while unwell, shielding and caring for an elderly relative.
Halifax contacted Mr and Mrs B in March 2021 to offer a payment deferral due to the impact 
of Covid-19 following an account review. Halifax says a payment holiday was applied in June 
2021 and backdated, resulting in a credit to Mr and Mrs Bs account of about £2,600. The 
mortgage has since been repaid from an inheritance.
I think it would be fair for Halifax to pay £300 compensation for the unnecessary additional 
worry it caused by not treating Mr and Mrs B fairly during the first part of the pandemic.
Did Halifax prioritise collecting its debt over Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances?
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage has been in arrears since 2013. While Halifax didnt always agree 
to Mrs Bs requests, it exercised forbearance over many years. Mr and Mrs B had to remain in regular contact with Halifax, and provide information about their circumstances. While I 
appreciate this was stressful, I think this was unavoidable if Halifax was going to be in a 
position to offer ongoing support.
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs B in February 2021 saying it would send a field agent to visit as 
it hadnt been able to contact them since August 2020. Mr and Mrs B found this upsetting, 
especially as theyd made some lump sum repayments to reduce their arrears and were 
shielding. However their account was still in arrears and Halifax hadnt been able to get in 
contact with them. I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to start the process of instructing a 
field agent to visit. When Mrs B called, Halifax cancelled the field agent visit and put a hold 
on the account to allow Mr and Mrs B time to look into obtaining benefits.
Mrs B referred to specific calls where she said Halifax had been rude or aggressive or didnt 
listen to her. Halifax provided recordings for these calls. Ive listened to the call recordings 
and read through Halifaxs notes of its contacts with Mrs B, as well as considering what Mrs 
B has said. With the exception of the period between April and August 2020, I dont think 
Halifax treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
Ultimately, if Mr and Mrs B didnt repay the mortgage, Santander was entitled to recover the 
debt from the sale of the property. Mr and Mrs B struggled to make mortgage payments over 
many years and this must have been worrying and upsetting for them. Nonetheless, Mr and 
Mrs Bs arrears came about because they couldnt maintain their monthly payments. It was 
right that their credit files reflected this. I think Halifax offered appropriate support with 
reduced payment arrangements and holds on collection activity over seven years. Overall, 
with the exception of the period between April and August 2020, I dont think Halifax treated 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay £300 to Mr 
and Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman