DRN-3453181
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P has complained that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited 
(Catlin) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr G, a director of P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf.
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with Catlin. It operates a shop.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 P closed 
its shop from 24 March 2020. 
P claimed on the policy. It said there had been no cases of Covid-19 on its premises. Catlin 
declined the claim. It said the policy covered business interruption as a result of a 
manifestation of a notifiable infectious disease at the premises but P hadnt demonstrated 
that Covid-19 had manifested itself at the premises. 
Mr G disagreed. He said there had been a lot of infections in his area at the relevant time 
and due to a lack of testing nobody could be sure there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 on 
Ps premises before it was required to close. 
Mr G brought Ps complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought Catlin had turned down the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. He said there was insufficient evidence to suggest that P had 
closed its business due to a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
P asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ps business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Catlin has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ps claim.
The most relevant part of Ps policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses arising 
from:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely P closed its business because there was 
a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at its premises. 
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Ps policy  
require there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the 
premises. It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic 
individual to have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
I appreciate Ps point that it could have had a case of Covid-19 on the premises without 
knowing and that testing wasnt available at that time. But Id need to see some evidence to 
suggest there was a suspected case on the premises and that the business was closed as 
a consequence of this. I havent seen anything to suggest that was the case in this 
complaint. 
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ps policy. But I dont consider Ps claim ought 
to have been met under any of them. So, having considered all the circumstances of this 
case, whilst I am sorry for the position P finds itself in, I am persuaded Catlins decision not 
to meet Ps claim was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman