DRN-3599738
The complaint
Miss N and Mr V complain esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels unfairly 
declined a claim against their home insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Miss N and Mr Vs back door key got stuck in the lock in December 2021. They 
say the door couldnt lock, so they contacted a locksmith who removed it, found a 
component was broken, and fitted temporary locks to secure the door. 
Miss N and Mr V checked their home insurance with esure and found it covered external 
locks, so they made a claim. 
esure considered the claim but declined it. They say the external locks section of the policy 
only covers lost or stolen keys, which didnt happen. They say the lock failed due to wear 
and tear, a mechanical part broke down which isnt covered, and it could be due to an 
inherent fault. Miss N and Mr V werent happy and complained. They say the door was only 
three years old, didnt agree the lock had a problem before or had deteriorated, and felt the 
accidental damage section of the policy should respond. 
esure responded to the complaint maintaining their position, and Miss N and Mr V 
approached our service. After this, esure and Miss N and Mr V provided their own reports on 
the most likely cause of the incident. Our investigator considered this, and recommended 
esure pays the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
esure didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key finding I must make is whether Im most persuaded that the lock failed over time due 
to age deterioration and wear and tear. Or, if accidental damage was the main cause. 
This is a very finely balanced case involving split opinions on the most likely cause from 
experts. But, having considered everything, Im most persuaded the accidental damage 
section of the policy should respond here. As such, Ill be directing esure to settle the claim 
and Ill explain why. 
esures report says no evidence of an insured peril was found, and the cause of the incident 
was the result of age deterioration. Whereas, Miss N and Mr Vs independent report says 
given the age of the door being only three years old, wear and tear wasnt the cause. Rather, 
it was due to a sudden, one-off fault, that caused the door to fail. 
Having weighed everything up, I find it less likely a three-year-old door would simply fail in 
operation with the main cause being the result of age deterioration and wear and tear  
without there being an external factor, such as a sudden, unexpected incident. Miss N and 
Mr V say the door had no issues prior to the key getting stuck in the door. I find their 
testimony plausible and have no reason to doubt this  particularly given the age of the door 
neither party has disputed. 
For clarity, the policy defines accidental damage as: single, sudden, unexpected and 
physical damage which was not deliberate. The policy goes on to say esure will pay for 
accidental damage as a direct result of a single, unexpected, and unintended event which is 
not the result of any causes listed as perils within the policy. 
esure also say the general exclusions that apply to the whole policy say the costs of 
replacing or repairing electrical or mechanical equipment that has broken down or was 
misused isnt covered. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude a broken 
lock should be considered as mechanical equipment.
It appears the most likely scenario here points to Miss N and Mr V causing accidental 
damage when turning the key which got stuck and couldnt be removed, causing damage. 
And its fair to say, on balance, this was a single, unexpected, and unintended event  which 
wasnt deliberate. 
Putting things right
esure must now meet the claim reported by Miss N and Mr V under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold it. I now require esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas 
Wheels to settle Miss N and Mr Vs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N and Mr V 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman