DRN-4069276
The complaint
Miss K complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital 
(No.9) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss K applied for and received a loan of £4,500 for a new laptop and living expenses while 
she was a student. It was to be drawn in two instalments of £2,250 - one in June 2019 and 
another the following month. Asset Link agreed the loan. It was to be repaid over nine years 
and four months in 28 monthly payments of £75 (while Miss K completed her studies) and 84 
monthly payments of £102.76. The total repayable over the term was £10,731.10.
Miss K complains that the interest on the loan is astonishing. When the time came to 
increase the payments, she asked Asset Link for help as she couldnt afford the repayments. 
She hadnt graduated due to personal reasons but was told there was nothing that could be 
done. She said Asset Link should never have agreed the loan for her.
Asset Link looked into the complaint and rejected it. It said it had carried out appropriate 
checks to ensure she would be able to afford the payments. In line with the nature of the 
product, Asset Link had assessed affordability on estimated future income based on the 
course Miss K was undertaking and the university she was attending. It was satisfied the 
payments would be affordable. But it acknowledged Miss K had found herself in a difficult 
position as shed not graduated as planned, so it refunded around 14 months of interest 
(totalling £982.14) and removed negative markers from her credit file up to July 2022.
Miss K didnt accept what Asset Link said and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said Asset Link had carried out sufficient checks on Miss Ks 
application and it was reasonable for it to rely on projected income and expenditure figures 
when doing so. He acknowledged that Miss K hadnt completed her studies as expected but 
felt Asset Link had responded reasonably to her request for help. Our investigator said he 
didnt think Asset Link had acted unfairly.
Asset Link accepted what our investigator said, but Miss K didnt. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. I think there are three key 
questions for me to think about while looking at Miss Ks complaint. These are:
1. Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss K 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Miss K wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Asset Link complete a review of Miss Ks circumstances once the in-study period 
had ended?
3. Did Asset Link act unreasonably in any other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss K would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent to Miss K required it 
to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure it was doing so responsibly. The 
checks needed to assess Miss Ks ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its 
term without causing her financial difficulties. 
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. But it isnt enough just to carry out checks, a lender must consider 
the information it obtains to make a fair lending decision. This includes not lending to 
someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made sustainably without 
having to borrow further.
Under the relevant regulations at the time, Asset Link was entitled to rely on expected future 
income for Miss K when making this assessment. Provided that this assessment was 
appropriate (bearing in mind what these regulations required in terms of proportionality) and 
there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in relation to any initial payments.
The loan was taken in June and July 2019 for £4,500. The purpose of the loan was to help 
Miss K to buy a laptop and cover living expenses while she was studying. Miss K says she 
took the loan when she was vulnerable and had poor credit, so was desperate for money. 
Asset Link has explained that at the time of her application, Miss K was working while 
studying, earning £500 per month. She provided it with details of her course, the expected 
completion date and confirmed she was living at home paying no rent so her expenses were 
mainly food and travel. She had also taken the government backed student finance. 
Asset Link then went on to conduct a search of Miss Ks credit file and checked employment 
statistics in her chosen field of study. Her credit file showed two credit cards with combined 
limits of £1,400 and a balance of £164 with all payments up to date, as well as two 
overdrafts with combined limits of £1,500 and balances totalling £1,430.  
Based on employment statistics provided by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) 
Asset Link found Miss K would be likely to earn in the region of £1,800 per month when she 
graduated. 
So Ive seen that the credit check Asset Link carried out at the time of her application 
showed no particular issues that would be unexpected for someone in her position  she had 
some debt, but it was being serviced. Further, taking into account her expenditure at the 
time, she had an income that was sufficient to enable her to service the debts she had and 
the in-study loan repayments. Due to the nature of this loan, it was reasonable for Asset Link 
to rely on an estimate of Miss Ks future income and expenditure. The regulations applicable 
allow it to do so. Ive thought carefully about the checks Asset Link conducted and I think it has shown that it 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Miss K. On the 
basis of what Ive seen I think it reached a fair decision to lend to her. 
Did Asset Link complete a review of Miss Ks circumstances once the in-study period had 
ended?
The payments of £75 during the in-study period were designed to cover the interest 
accrued at that time. Then, once Miss K graduated, the payments were to increase to 
£102.76 in order to repay the capital and interest accruing from then on. As Asset Link could 
only estimate what Miss Ks circumstances would be like at this time, it had to ensure the 
increased monthly repayments were affordable once the time came. 
When the loan was taken, Miss K had planned to graduate by August 2021. The higher 
repayments were due to start in November 2021. Asset Link was in touch with Miss K about 
the higher repayments. In October 2021, Miss K told it she hadnt graduated for personal 
reasons but hoped to do so in July 2022. By then she was earning around £900 a month, still 
lived at home and wasnt responsible for household bills etc. She began to make the higher 
repayments  albeit theyd dropped slightly to £100.10 as the applicable interest rate had 
fallen. 
During a conversation in December 2021, Miss K said that in fact she wouldnt graduate until 
2023. While she was still earning, shed taken on some bills which, added to her other credit 
commitments, totalled £300 per month. She continued to meet the higher repayments.
So I can see that Asset Link has been in touch with Miss K prior to her payments increasing. 
Given the notes of the conversations that took place and the payments received, I think 
Asset Link did enough to review the affordability of the increased payments.
Did Asset Link act unreasonably in any other way?
Miss K says the interest rate for the loan is astonishing, and Asset Link didnt help her 
when she told it she was having trouble meeting the higher repayments. Ill deal with each in 
turn.
The agreement Miss K signed when she took the loan is clear about the repayments 
required, interest rate and the term of the loan. It also included the total cost of credit. She 
was also given a Funding and Repayment Schedule which set out on a month-by-month 
basis what was due, an estimate of interest and projected balance outstanding. So Miss K 
knew from the outset what shed need to pay and how long it would take to pay off the loan if 
it ran its full term. 
So I think Asset Link provided Miss K with the information Id expect, fairly bringing the cost 
of borrowing to Miss Ks attention.
Miss K has said Asset Link didnt help her when she was having trouble meeting the higher 
repayments. Ive already said that there was communication between Asset Link and Miss K 
when she found she wouldnt be graduating as planned. The notes of that contact show she 
was told that the loan term couldnt be extended. But I can see too that Asset Link discussed 
other measures with Miss K such as payment holidays, and suggested she seek 
independent financial advice. 
Later, Asset link asked more about Miss Ks income and expenditure, but she agreed she 
could afford the higher repayments of just over £100 - around £25 a month more than those 
required earlier in the payment schedule. She was earning £900 per month, living with her parents and wasnt responsible for priority bills, so the assurance she could afford the 
repayments doesnt seem unreasonable.
Asset Link has also provided information about how best to contact it regarding financial 
difficulties if she found herself in that situation. And finally, I note it refunded £982.14 of 
interest that was accrued between May 2021 and July 2022. Ive seen nothing to show that it 
wasnt entitled to charge that interest, so the refund of them is a sign that Asset Link is 
seeking to help Miss K with her situation. 
Having reviewed all the evidence provided by each party to this complaint, I dont think 
Asset Link has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss K. It has acknowledged she 
didnt graduate as planned and has taken action to assist her through the refund of interest 
and amendments to her credit file. I think this is evidence that Asset Link has tried to support 
Miss K with the situation she has found herself in.
If Miss K finds herself in financial difficulty, Id encourage her to work with Asset Link to find a 
way forward. Id remind Asset Link of its obligation to treat her fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman