DRN-4339815
The complaint
Ms N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms N saw an advertisement for an investment for a company Ill refer to as B. She joined a 
telegram group and was contacted by someone claiming to be a broker who told her she 
could make significant returns by investing in cryptocurrency. 
The broker asked her to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. Between 2 March 2022 
and 29 April 2022, she made seven payments totalling £3,975 using a debit card attached to 
her Barclays account. The first payment was to a cryptocurrency exchange platform Ill refer 
to as C and the other six payments were to a payment platform Ill refer to as S. 
Ms N realised shed been scammed when she didnt receive any returns from her 
investment, and she lost contacted with the broker. She complained to this service 
explaining how the scam had affected her and that Barclays had failed to prevent the scam 
by foreseeing the fraud and conducting a proper investigation.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
the payments were suspicious or unusual, so he didnt think Barclays needed to intervene 
when Ms N made the payments. He explained the payments to legitimate accounts and 
while some banks have made the decision to block transactions to certain cryptocurrency 
exchanges, he didnt accept this was reason enough for Barclays to have intervened. He 
accepted there was a higher frequency of payments on 25 March 2022, but the combined 
amount was only £255. And he noted the payments took place over a six-week period, so S 
would have become a known and recognised merchant.
Our investigator also said the transfers were to accounts in Ms Ns own name, so Barclays 
wouldnt have been able to recover the funds, and there would be no chargeback rights as 
the payments were to legitimate financial businesses, who had provided the service they 
were required to provide.
Miss N has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms N has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover Ms Ns payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Ms N).
Ms Ns own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Ms Ns payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Barclayss decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Im satisfied Ms N authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her 
bank account, Ms N is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was probably a scam. 
But, although Ms N didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the 
disputed payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Barclays could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity, but Barclays had an 
obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms N when she tried to make 
the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Barclays to intervene with a view to protecting Ms N from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Barclays systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Ms N 
normally ran her account, and I dont think they were. All the payments were to legitimate accounts and the largest payment was for £2,000 on 15 March 2022, so none of them were 
for particularly large amounts. On 25 March 2022, Ms N made three payments to S, but the 
cumulative total of the payments was only £255, and shed made a previous payment to S 
on 15 March 2022. So, I dont think Barclays missed an opportunity to intervene.
Finally, as the payments were to accounts in Ms Ns own name and the funds were 
transferred from there to accounts in the scammers control, Im satisfied there was no 
prospect of a successful recovery.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Ms N has 
lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Barclays is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman