DRN-4030023
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave him a loan 
he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr H took one loan from Shelby for £350 on 12 October 2021. Mr H was due to make six 
monthly repayments of £114.24. Mr H has had problems repaying this loan and Shelby has 
said the balance has been given to a third-party debt collection agency. 
Following Mr Hs complaint, Shelby issued a final response letter. It detailed the checks that 
it carried out which included asking for income and expenditure details as well as carrying 
out a credit search. It was satisfied that based on these checks that Mr H could afford his 
loan repayments. So, it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where 
the complaint was considered by an adjudicator who upheld it. He concluded Shelby ought 
to have carried out some further checks before the loan was granted because of the 
information Shelby was provided with as part of its credit checks. 
Had further checks been carried out, Shelby wouldve likely discovered Mr H was using his 
income to pay for cryptocurrency and as a result was severely overdrawn and had several 
returned direct debits. So, he upheld Mr Hs complaint about the lending. 
Shelby didnt agree, Ive read in full what it has provided, Ive summarised the response 
below:
Most of Mr Hs outstanding debit related to his mortgage. 
There were no insolvency markers on his credit file and while some accounts had 
arrears markers  this was to be expected. 
While one long term secured loan had missed payment markers these appeared to 
have been rectified by the time this loan was granted. 
The checks completed by Shelby were proportionate for the amount that was 
advanced and regulatory guidance doesnt provide a list of information that it needed 
to obtain before lending  such as bank statements. 
Mr Hs mortgage was only in arrears once, and that was around 18 months before 
the loan was approved. 
Mr H seems to have agreed with the proposed outcome. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. This doesnt apply to Mr Hs 
complaint because there was only one loan. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Shelby has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr H for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr Hs income was declared as being £2,498 per month and he 
also declared his monthly outgoings were £970. 
As part of the affordability assessment, Shelby compared what Mr H declared against his 
credit search results (I comment more about this below) as well as well data provided from 
the Office of National Statistics. Having carried out these checks, it didnt make any changes 
to Mr Hs expenditure figures. This left more than sufficient disposable income for Shelby to 
reasonably conclude that Mr H could afford his repayments of around £115 per month.
Before this loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of these results in the final response letter. It has also provided the details it 
received from the credit reference agency in a separate document. I want to add that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do, is carry out a credit search 
and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
Shelby was also entitled to rely on the results it was given, and Ive looked at the results to 
see whether there was anything contained within them that wouldve either prompted Shelby 
to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Hs application. 
A summary of the information that Shelby was provided with shows:
Mr H owed other creditors over £126,241 and just over £3,274 of that was Total 
value of revolving credit and budget accounts. 
Mr H wasnt insolvent and hadnt defaulted on any accounts (both open and closed) 
within the last 12 months. 
Mr H had one credit card / revolving credit account which had a £3,000 limit and 
while at the time the loan was approved the account was within its limit. Mr H as 
recently as July 2021, had exceeded that limit  and this had been reported to the 
credit reference agencies. 
Another credit card / revolving facility with a £950 limit was also in arrears in 
July 2021. Although these had now been brought up to date, it does show that in the 
not to distance past Mr H had problems managing his existing credit commitments. 
Finally, a revolving facility with a limit of £2,450 was over its limit when the loan was 
approved  Mr H owed £2,508. As recently as July 2021, this had significant arrears 
of three months. And while, I can see that Mr H had made a large payment towards 
this debt it does seem that Mr H had immediately reused the available credit taking 
him back up to the limit. In addition, as the adjudicator pointed out there had been 
four cash advances from his account, and two in the last two months, - most recently 
for £670. Again, this is further information that suggests Mr H was struggling to 
maintain his existing credit commitments. 
Mr H recently closed an account in May 2021  and at the point the account was 
closed it was in arrears. 
In my view, the credit check results indicated that Mr H was having current and immediate 
diffcutlites in managing his exisiting credit committmements, I say this due to the number of 
accounts that were in arreas and Mr Hs recent behaviour of drawing out cash from a credit 
card account. In addition the information Shelby gathered from the credit check demostrated  
the monthly outgoing figues Mr H declared were not likley to be accurate. 
Shelby says, as part of its affordability assessment it thought the monthly figure given of 
£970 was reasonable, but I cant agree with that. Just from the credit search results it knew 
that Mr H had £1,056 of loan repayments. On top of this Mr H also had credit card debt (or 
other revolving credit) totalling £5,438 which would lead to a minimum repayment of 
potentially at least £200 per month  but it could easily be more depending on the interest 
rate and the type of account. So just based on the credit file information, Mr H likely had 
around £1,256 of expenditure solely to service his outstanding commitments. 
And of course, on top of this, there would likely have been further living costs that arent 
recorded in a credit search, such as insurances, transport, food and council tax  to name a 
few. So even, ignoring the other information in the credit file, Shelby was on notice that 
Mr Hs living costs would likely have been significantly more than the £970 he declared.
I do therefore think, in the circumstance of this case, Shelbys checks needed to go further 
than just relying on what Mr H had told it as well as the credit check results. Given 
everything Shelby had available to it at the time it shouldve done further checks, perhaps verifying what Mr H had told it or checking his credit commitments to obtain a better 
understanding of his living costs to see whether there were any other loans that it needed to 
consider.
Shelby couldve gone about doing what I consider to be a proportionate check a number of 
ways. It couldve asked to see copy bank statements, copy of bills, asked for a full copy of 
his credit file or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to allow it to 
establish Mr Hs true financial position. To be clear, I am not saying that Shelby had to 
review Mr Hs bank statements only this was one of a number of ways it couldve gone about 
making further enquiries into Mr Hs circumstances. 
Mr H has provided a copy of his bank statements for the month leading up to this loan being 
approved. And as Ive said above, bank statements were just one of the ways Shelby 
couldve found out more information from Mr H. So, in those circumstances I dont think its 
unreasonable to rely on them. Shelby wouldve likely discovered, the following;
As the adjudicator explained and I can also see that Mr H was using most of his 
income towards a cryptocurrency exchange, this ought to have led Shelby to 
question whether the loan was sustainable, given it already knew of his existing 
credit commitments and the risk associated with someone transferring so much 
money to an exchange. Whatever Mr Hs reasons, the fact that this was impacting his 
wider financial situation ought to have led Shelby to question whether the 
repayments for this loan would be sustainable. 
Mr H was already struggling to repay his outstanding commitments, in the last week 
of September 2021, seven direct debits were returned as unpaid, with further 
payments being returned unpaid in the first week of October 2021. The industry 
regulation says that returned direct debits can be a sign that a consumer is 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
There were further living costs that needed to be factored into Mr Hs living costs 
such as gym membership, car related costs such as tax, council tax and other 
insurance products. 
Mr H was taking high-cost short term loans from other credit providers including fully 
utilising a revolving credit product provided by a high-cost provider. 
Overall, given what I can see in the bank statements, its clear that Mr H was already 
struggling to keep on top of his existing credit commitments and therefore this loan ought to 
not have been provided to him. 
While I accept the above information wasnt available to Shelby at the point of application, I 
do think it is likely it wouldve discovered some or all of what Ive seen had it carried out what 
I consider to be a proportionate check. And as such, Im therefore upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about this loan and Ive outlined below what it needs to do in order to put things 
right. 
Overall, Im satisfied that a further, more detailed look into Mr Hs circumstances wouldve 
showed he was having difficulties maintaining his contractual repayments that he already 
had and knowing this I dont think Shelby wouldve believed that Mr H couldve repaid this 
loan in a sustainable manner. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Shelby should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a 
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Shelbys liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Shelby shouldnt have given Mr H his loan.
If Shelby has sold the outstanding debt Shelby should buy it back if Shelby is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Shelby is not able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Shelby should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Shelby has already refunded.
B. Shelby should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Shelby should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Mr H having made overpayments then Shelby should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Shelby should 
then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Shelby should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr H. Shelby shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
Shelby have already written-off. 
E. Shelby should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to the loan.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shelby to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should put things right for Mr H as directed 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman