DRN-3155730
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim for storm damage 
under their home insurance policy.
I will refer to Mr M for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
Mr M noticed water damage to a ceiling in August 2020. He then arranged for a roofer to 
investigate the cause of the damage by inspecting the roof. The roofer noticed a few tiles 
were missing and thought this must have happened during major storms earlier in the year. 
Around the same time Mr M contacted AXA to claim for the damage to his ceiling and roof.
AXA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He found there was extensive renovation work 
underway at Mr Ms house. He couldnt report on any damage internally as walls had been 
stripped of plaster and ceilings renewed. The surveyor did look at the roof. He said it was in 
a very poor condition, with evidence of slipped and cracked tiles across all of it. He reported 
that the roof needed to be fully renewed.
AXA then wrote to Mr M to decline his claim for storm damage. It says the weather records 
didnt show high enough wind speeds to cause external damage to the roof that would allow 
rainwater to enter. It says the damage sustained is not consistent with high winds. AXA says 
the rainwater has highlighted a wear and tear issue, which is not covered by its policy. 
Mr M disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. Although he found evidence of a wet storm around the time of Mr Ms claim. He 
didnt think this was the main cause of the damage. He thought the evidence showed the 
roof was in a deteriorated condition due to wear and tear, and this allowed rainwater to enter 
the property during the heavy rainfall.   
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Let me explain. 
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for AXA to decline Mr Ms claim for the reason it 
gave. Ive relied, in part, on the expert report provided by the company to decide whether 
Mr M has shown that an insured event occurred, and whether AXA has shown that it fairly 
relied on a valid exclusion.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Mr Ms policy insures against loss or damage caused by a storm. However, the policy 
doesnt define what storm conditions are. He contacted AXA in August 2020, so I have 
checked the weather records around this time, near to his location to understand whether 
storm conditions were recorded.  
Storm conditions generally involve violent winds, usually accompanied with rain, hail or 
snow. From the weather records, storm strength winds werent reported around the time Mr 
M noticed the damage. Heavy rain was experienced a few days before he contacted AXA 
with a maximum hourly rainfall recorded at 11.4mm. We would generally accept this level of 
rainfall to be considered storm intensity. So, the answer to question one is, yes.
Mr M has claimed for damage to his roof and for the damage caused by water entering his 
property. I think its reasonable to accept this damage is consistent with that caused by a 
storm. So, the answer to question two is also, yes. 
The final question I must consider is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. AXA disputes this and says the main cause of the damage was wear and tear 
affecting the roof. 
The policy terms say:
Your insurer will not pay for: Damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, rot, fungus, 
insects, vermin, atmospheric or climatic conditions or other damage that happens gradually 
over a period of time.
When considering whether wear and tear can be said to have caused the damage, I have 
read the notes from the surveyors site visit. The notes say:
The policyholder is claiming for water damage to the front bedroom, rear bedroom and 
stairwell and landing. It was not possible to measure these areas as workmen were 
plastering these rooms. In addition, the policyholder is claiming for storm damage to the 3 
roof elevations.
The pitched tiled roof is in a very poor condition, with slipped and cracked tiles all over it. 
One of the workmen described the Roof as atrocious and needing to be fully renewed.
Difficult to see alleged damage as workmen were on site and plastering the entire upstairs to 
the property. 
   
The site notes include several photos of the roof taken from above, and from within the roof 
space. In addition to photos of the rooms where water damage is claimed. The notes say:
Roof to front elevation - a number of cracked / slipped tiles. The right hand side elevation of 
the foof [sic] has slipped / displaced tiles all over. The rear roof elevation has slipped / 
displaced tiles all over. The stairwell has had all plaster hacked off the walls - no opportunity 
to see alleged damage. Front bedroom has been replastered. The roof is tile only - with no 
underfelt. Unfelted roofs are not uncommon - but rely on the roof being well maintained to 
keep watertight.
Following the site visit AXA wrote to Mr M to decline his claim. It says:damage sustained to the 3 roof elevations is not consistent with high winds, with it being 
evident that some tiles are slipped or broken. We believe the rainwater has just highlighted a 
wear and tear issue. 
I note Mr M says he had his roof checked in October 2019 and this didnt reveal a problem. 
However, he hasnt supplied information that supports this. 
Having considered the expert opinion provided by AXA, I think the view that the damage is 
the result of wear and tear is persuasive. Ive looked at the photos of the roof slopes, which 
do show a lot of areas where tiles have slipped and are cracked. The roof appears to be of 
some age. I think the surveyors view that the tiled roof slopes are in a, very poor condition 
is clearly supported by these photos. 
Having considered all of this I dont think its been shown that storm conditions were the 
main cause of the damage. I think the heavy rainfall highlighted the poor condition of the 
roof, which has resulted from wear and tear over time. As this cause of the damage is 
excluded under the policy terms, I think AXA acted fairly in relying on these terms and 
declining the claim.
I have also given thought to Mr Ms claim for damage that occurred internally. AXA says it 
wasnt possible to inspect the damage due to the extensive renovations that were ongoing. 
From the surveyors report and photos, walls and ceilings were undergoing renewal and re-
plastering at the time of his visit. The inspection was done shortly after Mr M made his claim 
to AXA. But I note Mr Ms comments that he needed to make the house habitable for his 
family, which is why the repair work was arranged quickly
I sympathise with Mr Ms position and the need to carry out repairs quickly. AXA couldnt 
inspect the damage, which was unfortunate, but as already discussed the policy terms 
exclude cover where wear and tear is found to be the cause.   
I also acknowledge Mr Ms view that damage could have happened during the storms that 
occurred in February 2020. However, its clear from the site inspection notes that the roof is 
in a poor condition due to wear and tear over time. The damage to the roof has not been 
shown to be the result of a sudden event caused by a storm or storms. 
In summary, I think AXA acted fairly in declining the claim for the reasons stated, so I cannot 
reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman