DRN-3987003
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited declined to meet a 
terminal illness claim made under a level term life protection plan. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is not in dispute. In summary Mr P and Mrs P took out 
three policies in 2011 for a term of 11 years. This complaint concerns the claim Mr and Mrs 
P made for terminal illness benefit under the life protection plan. Very sadly Mr P passed 
away in February 2023. Mrs P, also a joint policy owner, continued with the complaint started 
before Mr P died.
A complaint was brought here when Liverpool Victoria declined the claim. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that it be upheld. He didnt find that the policy definition was met for the 
terminal illness claim to succeed. 
Mrs P appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to send my condolences to Mrs P for loss of Mr P. Its clear from the 
correspondence and call with our investigator how devastating this has been for her. Im 
grateful to her for her detailed submissions at what I recognise has been an extremely 
difficult time.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and left out some sensitive 
medical information. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and 
considered the representations Mrs P made after our investigators investigation outcome. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I recognise that Mrs P will be very disappointed my decision and 
Im sorry this decision doesnt bring more welcome news. But for these reasons I agree with 
the conclusion reached by our investigator:
In addition to life cover, Mr and Mrs Ps policy also included cover for terminal 
illness. There is no dispute that Mr P was diagnosed with the cancer from which he 
died before the policy came to an end in September 2022. However, in order for a 
claim to be met the illness needs to meet the policy definition which is: Terminal 
illness  Advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinions of 
an attending consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no 
greater than 12 months. The policy excludes terminal illness claims If you are 
diagnosed with a terminal illness less than 12 months before the end date of the 
policy. So, to succeed, the definition needed to be met before 1 September 2021.
Ive carefully considered the opinions of Mr Ps attending consultants and Liverpool 
Victorias Chief Medical Officers in order to see if Liverpool Victoria treated Mrs P 
fairly in concluding the definition wasnt met. Mr Ps Consultant Plastic Surgeon, 
whom Ill refer to as Mr J, reported that Mr P first presented in his department in April 
2021. A CT scan at that time showed no evidence of further disease spread. He was 
regularly seen by the oncology team since that date and Mr J reported that in 
October 2021 Mr P was clinically well and there was nothing to find in the area of the 
first melanoma at that stage. Mr J said that it is a moot point to try and decide which 
point in time (Mr Ps) disease became completely incurable as no one can attribute a 
specific time to this. Liverpool Victoria asked Mr J whether in his opinion there was 
evidence of incurable metastatic disease or that Mr Ps life expectancy was 12 
months or less on 1 September 2021. He said that he wouldnt wish to make such 
judgements as he couldnt predict this with accuracy and wouldnt try to. But he felt 
the claim should be paid.
Mr Ps oncologist, whom Ill refer to as Dr H, wrote in July 2022 that his life 
expectancy was probably measured in months. She said his 12-month survival was 
less than 40% and 24 months less than 20%. Very sadly Mr Ps cancer recurred and 
he passed away in February 2023  by this date the policy had come to an end.
Liverpool Victoria sought the opinion of two medical officers. Mrs P has seen that 
evidence, so I wont repeat it in detail here. But in short the opinion was Mr P initially 
appeared to have good prognostic features  which is why the clinical decision was 
to re-scan in six months. The recurrent node appeared in early October 2021, there 
was no indication to do a second scan until the appearance of this second lump, 
which was within the last 12 months of the policy. In the circumstances they didnt 
find that the policy definition was met before 1 September 2021. 
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Ps submission in which she refers to a definition of 
terminal illness as an illness or condition which cannot be cured and is likely to lead 
to someones death. She writes that none of the definitions she has found in 
numerous online resources refer to a timeline. I do understand her point. However, 
the issue here is whether Mr P met the policy definition, which will differ from those 
found online. The policy definition does include a timeline of sorts, in that for a 
terminal illness claim to succeed the definition needs to be met 12 or more months 
from the policy end. 
The medical evidence doesnt support that Mr P met the policy definition on 1 
September 2021  in that his life expectancy wasnt found to be 12 months or less at 
or before this time. I can understand why Mrs P feels this is unfair. But in the light of 
all the evidence I cant say that Liverpool Victoria treated Mrs P unfairly, 
unreasonably or contrary to the policy terms and conditions in declining her claim.
Liverpool Victoria acknowledged that the written communications Mrs P had received 
had caused her distress. It offered £300 in compensation. I find that was fair.
For completeness I would add that I dont find the successful critical illness claim 
made on another policy had any bearing on the success of this claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman