DRN-3869396
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined some parts of a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has a home insurance policy underwritten by Ageas, which covers the contents of his 
home and his personal possessions.
He made a claim in October 2021 after a fire in his garage and shed. The claim related to 
the contents of the outbuildings  tools, golf equipment, fishing tackle and other 
possessions. Theres no claim to Ageas relating to the buildings themselves  Mr P has no 
buildings cover under his Ageas policy.
The full amount of the claim hasnt yet been quantified  for reasons which will become 
apparent - but it amounts to somewhere above around £25,000. 
The loss adjuster appointed by Ageas had some concerns about the claim, for reasons 
which are known to both parties, but in around March 2022, Ageas accepted liability for the 
claim and asked the loss adjuster to validate and value the items claimed by Mr P.
The outcome of that process is, in short, that Ageas have paid just under £15,000 to Mr P for 
items for which the claim has been accepted. Also, Mr P has accepted that some of the 
contents  mainly motor parts and accessories - are not covered under the policy. 
However, Mr P made a complaint to Ageas about a third category of claimed item, which 
mainly consists of tools. Ageas declined the claim for these items because they believe Mr P 
may use them for business purposes. Mr P is a self-employed gas fitter.
Mr P told Ageas that the tools in the shed and garage were for personal use and not used for 
his business. He says the tools he needs for his business are kept in his work vehicle, not in 
the shed or garage.
Ageas asked Mr P to prove that. They that if he didnt provide such proof, theyd maintain 
their position and decline the claim for those items. 
Mr P wasnt happy with that and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into 
and didnt think Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P. 
She thought many of the tools could and would be for personal rather than business use. 
They were, essentially, the kind of tools many people would have in their sheds or garages.
For that reason, she asked Ageas to reconsider the claim and re-assess those items for 
which theyd declined the claim on the basis that they were used in Mr Ps business.
Ageas didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think the onus 
should be on Mr P to prove that the claimed items arent used for business purposes. 
Mr P says hes happy for Ageas to re-assess the claim for the relevant items, but he wont 
know until theyve done that whether or not hes satisfied with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what the policy says or means. In essence, if Mr P 
uses the tools in question for business purposes, they arent covered and Ageas are entitled 
to decline that part of Mr Ps claim.
Mr P says the tools and equipment for which hes made the claim arent used for his gas-
fitting business. He says he has tools specifically for that purpose which are kept separately. 
Ageas have asked Mr P to provide proof, evidence or substantiation of that. And they said 
they arent going to pay for replacement of those tools and equipment unless and until Mr P 
provides that proof.
The question for me, in making this decision, is whether Ageas stance (as described 
immediately above) is fair and reasonable. I dont think it is and Ill explain why.
Our view  and this is reflected in best practice in the insurance industry at present  is that 
the onus is on the policyholder, when they make a claim, to show that theyve suffered a loss 
or damage due to an insured event. But the onus is on the insurer to show an exception or 
condition applies which might allow them to decline a claim (or part of a claim).
In this case, theres no dispute that there was an insured event  the fire. And theres no 
dispute that Mr P had contents lost or damaged as a result of that insured event.
Ageas are now saying they wont cover some of those contents because they were of a 
particular type or nature  that is, they were used for business purposes. 
I know Ageas dont set out the position on business equipment explicitly as an exclusion or 
condition in the policy. Its set out in the section entitled Making sense of your policy, which 
is towards the front of the policy document and defines or explains the cover provided. 
However, in my view, it has the same effect as an explicitly listed exclusion  and in essence 
acts as an exclusion even if it is not described as such in the policy terms.
That means that if Ageas are to justifiably decline the relevant parts of the claim on this 
basis, they need to show that the tools and equipment were most likely used for business 
purposes. 
I think its unfair to ask Mr P to prove the negative in this case. And its unfair to ask him to 
prove that what is effectively an exclusion doesnt in fact apply.
To be fair to Ageas, they havent as yet tried to demonstrate that the tools and equipment 
were used for business purposes  because theyve been asking Mr P to prove the opposite.
 So, Im going to ask them to reconsider the parts of the claim declined on that basis. If they 
wish to carry out further enquiries or investigations as a part of their reconsideration of the 
claim, theyd be entitled to do so.I should stress that theres no real doubt in this case that some of the tools and equipment in 
question could be used for business purposes, given that Mr P is a gas fitter. 
But Im satisfied that if Ageas are to decline the claim on that basis they need to demonstrate 
that it's likely the tools and equipment were in fact used for business purposes.
I should say that its difficult to see how some of the declined items might be used  at least 
in all but exceptional circumstances - in a gas-fitting business. For example, the currently 
declined items include fan heaters, post-setting concrete and a carpet stapler. 
I accept that when Ageas reconsider the claim, they may do so under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
If there are other reasons to decline the relevant parts of the claim, it would be unfair to 
effectively override those in this decision by requiring Ageas to settle the claim for the 
relevant tools and equipment.
However, I certainly dont expect Ageas to argue that the items claimed by Mr P werent in 
fact lost in the fire. 
Their loss adjuster chose to dispose of items which were beyond economic repair  and 
which were on the face of it potentially covered under the policy (as opposed to the car parts 
and accessories, which werent covered) - so its not possible now to go back and verify the 
existence of the claimed items. 
I acknowledge that Mr P doesnt wish to say hes happy with the outcome as yet, because 
he doesnt know how Ageas will treat his claim from now on. 
If Mr P is unhappy with Ageas decision(s) after their reconsideration of the claim, hed be 
entitled to make a further complaint to Ageas  and then to us if hes not satisfied with 
Ageas response.
Putting things right
In line with the reasoning set out above, Ageas must now reconsider the claim. If they are to 
decline the claim for any items on the basis that they were used for business purposes, they 
will need to demonstrate thats more likely than not.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Ageas Insurance Limited must reconsider Mr Ps claim in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy - and on the basis that if they are to decline any item because it was used for 
business purposes, they need to demonstrate that was the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman