DRN-3319575
The complaint
Miss V complains that Aviva Insurance Limited have unfairly declined her claims for Legal 
Expenses Insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Miss V had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by Aviva 
and in 2018 she sought to make a claim. The claim form records that she wanted to take 
legal action against the freeholder of her property as there was significant movement in the 
property which had caused cracks, damage and a loss of value to her flat. 
Aviva went on to decline the claim, the main reason for this was that they believed the 
problems began before Miss V had insurance with them. Miss V wasnt happy with this and 
complained. The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt 
recommend it should be upheld  in summary she thought Aviva had acted fairly. Miss V 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Aviva provide Miss V home contents insurance and that the LEI forms part of 
that policy. Miss V has made a number of claims and complaints, but this decision will only 
deal with the LEI element of Miss Vs claim. Miss Vs policy provides cover for certain 
disputes in relation to her home. But there is a relevant exclusion which says Aviva will not 
be liable for:
claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this policy 
happen before this cover starts
Terms like this are common to this type of insurance and I dont think this term is inherently 
unfair. Insurance is intended to protect against the risk of something happening in the future. 
I dont think excluding cover for something that happened (or began) before the insurance 
was in place is unfair. 
Part of Miss Vs submissions to Aviva included a letter from a Chartered Building Surveyor 
from 2016. Part of this said sometime in 2013, building works took place in the ground floor 
flat, directly below your flat Shortly after that and hitherto you have advised that cracks 
appeared, the floor dropped and doors had to be eased. The letter went on to explain that 
the surveyor thought it was unlikely that suitable work had been done in the downstairs flat 
to support the loads above. Its also clear that Miss V believed this to be the responsibility of 
the freeholder. 
In 2018 Miss V had also claimed to Aviva for the damage to her property. Avivas surveyor 
said The floors within the flat inspected are no longer level, with the walls also showing 
signs of no longer being square. It is likely the joists above the ground floor are deflecting 
due to the unsupported weight of the internal walls.
Miss V says that the previous damage had been repaired and that new damage occurred in 
2018. Miss Vs LEI policy with Aviva began in 2018. Taking all of the above into 
consideration, I dont think it is unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the series of 
incidents leading to this claim began before the policy did. The evidence supports that the 
damage in 2018 is linked to the same root cause from the works in 2013. As such I think 
Aviva declining the claim on the basis of the exclusion listed above is in line with the policy 
terms and fair. Miss V has also confirmed that she didnt have LEI cover prior to 2018. So 
there isnt any reason based on her having had continuous cover (as she didnt) for me to 
ask Aviva to do more. 
For completeness Miss V also mentioned that she wanted to use her LEI policy to take 
action against Aviva for declining her claim. There is a further policy exclusion which says 
there is no cover for: Disputes between you and us where the dispute relates to this 
cover. I dont think Aviva not further investigating such a claim was unreasonable. The 
policy is clear that there is no cover to pursue them in relation to the cover provided by the 
policy. Ive also considered all Miss V has said but Im not persuaded there is evidence of 
poor service provided by Aviva where a compensation award would be appropriate. 
Im sorry to hear of the problems Miss V has at her home  Im sure it is incredibly stressful 
and difficult. But I can only ask Aviva to do more if I think theyve acted outside the policy 
terms or unfairly. And in the context of this complaint, I dont think they have. So, Im not 
going to tell them to do anything more to resolve it. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman