DRN-3717990
The complaint
Mr C complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) declined his claim for a 
replacement lock under his home emergency policy.
What happened
As part of his home insurance Mr C had a home emergency policy with One Insurance. In 
January 2022 Mr C reported that the locking mechanism on his back door was jammed and 
the handle was stuck. He said that this meant the property was not safe as he couldnt exit 
the back door if there was an emergency, such as a fire. 
One Insurance declined the claim saying that as the back door was secure the lock 
replacement would not be covered under the policy. One Insurance did arrange for a 
locksmith to attend to repair the lock but advised Mr C that he would be responsible for the 
cost. Mr C said the locksmith told him that the door was a security risk as it could easily have 
been broken in to. Mr C complained to One Insurance that the damaged lock should be 
covered under the policy as a security and safety risk. He asked for a refund of the cost of 
the replacement lock which was £224.84.
One Insurance said that as the door could not be opened, the property was secure and there 
was no threat to life or property. It confirmed that the claim would be declined. Mr C didnt 
agree and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think One Insurance 
had unfairly declined the claim. He hadnt seen a report from the locksmith but referred to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. He concluded that there was no security or safety risk 
as the door was locked shut and there was no immediate risk of fire.
Mr C then obtained some additional information from the locksmith. Mr C said that this 
supported his claim as the locksmith had been instructed as a home emergency to secure 
the property. One Insurance said that the locksmiths view was that the damage to the lock 
was caused by wear and tear and as such it would not have been covered under the policy 
in any event. Our investigator concluded that as the policy excluded wear and tear, the 
locksmiths comments didnt change his view that the claim had been fairly declined. Mr C 
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A home emergency policy is designed to provide an emergency response to sudden and 
unforeseen emergency situations that happen. They often only provide temporary fixes to 
emergencies, rather than more permanent solutions. In this case, Mr C found himself in the 
difficult position of not being able to open his back door.
My starting point is to look at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. A home emergency 
is considered to be an event that poses a threat to Life or Property and ongoing damage is 
prevented as a temporary measure; this does not cover permanent fixes. The policy 
includes Damage to locks and entrance ways where immediate repairs are required for the 
purposes of either security or safety. When looking at this complaint I need to consider 
whether One Insurance has acted reasonably under the terms of the policy. 
Ive considered very carefully Mr Cs arguments about security and safety. However, Im not 
persuaded that the broken lock in the back door was a home emergency. I dont think it 
created a threat to life as Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was an immediate risk of 
fire  or that Mr C would have been unable to exit his home through the front of the property 
in an emergency. Whilst I appreciate that a fire at the front of the property would have limited 
his access, I have to look at the circumstances Mr C found himself in. I dont think these 
were such that One Insurance needed to treat the damaged lock as a risk to life requiring 
immediate repair. 
In relation to the security risk, Im aware of the comments Mr C says the locksmith made to 
him. However, Ive seen the additional information which Mr C obtained from the locksmith 
and there is nothing in there to suggest that the door would have been insecure. Mr C points 
to the locksmiths information which he says confirms that he attended on an emergency 
basis to secure the property. However, I dont think that this meant that the claim was to be 
accepted by One Insurance. It was simply the basis of its instructions to the locksmith to 
attend  and One Insurance had already made it clear to Mr C that the claim would not be 
covered. The locksmith didnt raise any issues about security or safety that in my view meant 
that One Insurance should have accepted the claim.
I dont therefore think that One Insurance acted unfairly in declining Mr Cs claim.
The locksmith goes on to say that the damage to the lock was not an insurable event. He 
says that the gearbox on the lock mechanism had failed and that this damage was due to 
wear and tear which is likely to have occurred over time. Its quite common for policies to 
contain a general exclusion for wear and tear and I can see that Mr Cs policy does this. The 
policy specifically excludes any claim for replacement items or parts that are required as a 
result of natural wear and tear or gradual deterioration. One Insurance say that they would 
have declined the claim on this basis as well. Mr C says that this misses the point as hes 
not disputing the wear and tear element. However, the issue has been raised and I think its 
important as even if One Insurance had accepted the property wasnt secure or safe, its 
likely the claim would have been declined due to wear and tear in any event. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think that One Insurance 
have unfairly declined his claim  and I cant therefore ask them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman