DRN-2928414
The complaint
Mr R complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined a claim he made under his Home 
Emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr R contacted AWP in April 2020 because his central heating and hot water system wasnt 
working. An engineer appointment could not be made that day. Because an engineer wasnt 
immediately available, the company told him he could arrange for his own engineer to 
attend. He arranged for an engineer to visit the next day. 
The engineer found a problem relating to the hot water cylinder. He disconnected it, replaced 
several valves and installed a new immersion heater, before re-fixing the hot water cylinder 
back in place. Mr R claimed the cost of repairs (over £700) from AWP.
AWP subsequently declined the claim. It said the hot water cylinder and immersion heater 
were the source of the problem. The terms of the policy cover Mr R for his primary heating 
system. The company explained that his boiler is the primary heating system and the fault 
did not lie with the boiler.
AWP sent a final written response to Mr Rs complaint. It confirmed his claim was not 
covered. But offered a payment of £236.02, equivalent to the cost it would have paid Mr R 
had it sent an engineer to diagnose the problem. Mr R initially accepted the offer, but later 
referred his complaint to this service. He explained that he only accepted as he thought that 
otherwise he would get nothing in relation to his claim.  
Mr R says the issue was caused by a sudden leak in the system. He expects that a loss of 
heating or hot water, following a failure or breakdown in the main heating system, would be 
covered by his policy. Mr R says AWP told him it would cover the cost of his engineer, and 
subsequently refused to do so. He also highlights several delays in the process. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He decided not to uphold the complaint. He 
concluded the policy terms did not cover the claim, as this was due to issues with the hot 
water cylinder, valves and the immersion heater. As Mr Rs primary heating system is the 
boiler, he agreed with AWP that the policy exclusions meant the claim was not covered. 
Mr R was asked by AWP to provide proof his boiler had been serviced as the policy terms 
require this every 24 month. The investigator concluded it was appropriate that AWP 
requested this information as proper maintenance was a requirement of the policy.   
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He said the problem was caused by a leak in the 
system, which was covered by the policy. He also supplied copies of negative online reviews 
relating to the policy. And disputed that servicing of the boiler had any impact on his claim. 
The investigator provided a second response. He maintained his original decision not to 
uphold the complaint. He said this was because the fault was not with the primary heating 
system and therefore the claim was excluded under the policy terms. 
Although servicing of the boiler was identified as a requirement. The investigator explained 
that this did not impact on his decision. He felt that although some delays had occurred in 
handling the claim, this had been appropriately acknowledged with the payment for £263.02 
that AWP had already provided. 
The investigator confirmed the reviews provided did not relate to Mr Rs complaint and so did 
not impact on his decision.   
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans review. The complaint 
has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The main issues here are:
whether AWP was fair to decline the claim; 
whether the policy terms were clear and easily understandable; and
delays and poor service in handling the claim.  
Mr R had a home emergency policy. Amongst other things this covered him for plumbing 
emergencies. The policy says, We aim to provide rapid, expert help if you suffer an 
emergency arising from an incident covered under this policy. We will arrange for one of our 
list of approved contractors to attend and take actions to stabilise the situation and
resolve the emergency.
On page nine the policy terms confirm what is covered: 
What is covered - Complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/or hot water 
supply provided by the primary heating system. 
It is clear from his policy terms that Mr R was covered for issues relating to his central 
heating and hot water system. However, the terms also say that any fault must relate to the 
Primary heating system.
Mr R arranged for an engineer to attend his home, as this was going to be quicker than 
waiting for AWP to sort out an appointment. The engineer carried out repair work and 
provided an invoice. This says:
To drain down heating and domestic hot water. Disconnect and set to one side existing 
domestic hot water cylinder. To supply and fix 2no replacement pump union valves and 1no 
spring return valve. Refit existing domestic hot water cylinder, complete with new immersion 
heater. Refill and test
In its response to Mr Rs complaint AWP says:
I can see you initially called us on 14 April to report an issue with your oil boiler. Its with
regret that we struggled to secure an appointment and we authorised you to arrange your 
own tradesperson to assist and diagnose the fault. Upon their arrival, I understand that the 
boiler wasnt at fault, but the immersion heater and hot water cylinder. This is not covered 
under your policy as this is not your primary heating system. Details of which are explained on page 9 of your policy terms and conditions: Primary heating system: The main heating 
system in your home, including a domestic boiler.
Mr R has an oil-fired boiler providing heating and hot water to his home. This is what AWP 
referred to in its complaint response as his primary heating system. Whereas Mr Rs 
engineer confirms work was carried out to remove the hot water cylinder, replace valves 
replace the immersion heater and re-fix the hot water cylinder.  
For the claim to be covered under the terms of the policy it must be a, complete failure or 
breakdown of either the heating and/or hot water supply provided by the primary heating 
system. The work carried out wasnt to repair the boiler. The boiler wasnt the problem here. 
So, I am satisfied it was reasonable for AWP to rely on the policy terms and that it has acted 
fairly in declining Mr Rs claim.  
I note further work was been carried out on Mr Rs hot water and heating system. This was 
because further leaks and problems with the hot water cylinder, valves and immersion 
heater continued. I understand Mr R has been in dispute with the original engineer over this. 
But its clear that all the work carried out relates to the hot water cylinder, valves and the 
immersion heater. Again, this work was not covered by Mr Rs policy. 
I have next considered Mr Rs complaint that the policy terms should be unambiguous and 
easily understood. He also says unusual terms to be brought to the attention of the insured. 
What is and isnt covered by the policy needs to be made clear. And as Mr R says, any 
unusual terms should be given due prominence. This is so a customer can make a fully 
informed decision when selecting the appropriate insurance cover. I sympathise with Mr Rs 
situation and his belief that this policy would cover his claim. But having reviewed the policy 
literature I am not persuaded that there are unusual or unclear terms. 
In my view the terms I have already set out in this letter, which are taken from Mr Rs policy 
booklet, are clear in setting out when a failure or breakdown is covered.
Finally, I have looked at the overall service Mr R received. It is unfortunate that AWP could 
not get an engineer to attend more quickly. Mr R was able to arrange his own engineer to 
attend. Unfortunately, his policy did not cover the cost of the work undertaken as he 
expected it to. 
I do not think Mr R has been financially disadvantaged, as the work was necessary to 
restore the heating and hot water, and the policy did not cover this. However, I can 
understand how this caused him distress. 
There was a delay in the company responding when Mr R sent his invoice to AWP. It took a 
couple of months to confirm the policy did not cover the work carried out. This clearly caused 
inconvenience, requiring more contact with the company. It was also distressing for Mr R, 
given he needed to pay his engineer, which he describes in his correspondence.  
In its response to Mr Rs complaint AWP confirmed it was sending a payment for £263.02 by 
way of an apology and goodwill gesture for the delays experienced. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that AWP fairly relied upon the terms and 
conditions of the policy when it declined Mr Rs claim. Im satisfied that AWP did provide Mr 
R with poor service, with the initial engineer delay and by not telling him that his claim had 
been declined sooner. But I think its offer of £263.02 was fair. So, I cant reasonably ask 
AWP to do anything more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not uphold this complaint. I am satisfied that in AWP 
P&C SA offering £263.02 for the trouble and upset it caused, this is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman