DRN-3496826
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly recalled its Bounce Back Loan. 
Fs director, Mrs A, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
F held a current account with NatWest and successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £50,000 in May 2020. 
Following a subsequent review of the loan application, NatWest concluded that F had been 
ineligible for the loan it had obtained on the basis that it hadnt been trading prior to 1 March 
2020 as required by the Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility criteria. So it terminated the 
loan and demanded its immediate repayment. It closed Fs bank account after using the 
funds held therein to pay down the amount owing on the loan.
NatWest also recovered £25,000 that had been transferred to Mrs As personal account with 
the bank and used these to pay down the loan, leaving a debt of around £4,000 left to repay. 
The banks decision to end its relationship with Mrs A as a personal customer and use funds 
held in her personal account to repay Fs debt are the subject of a separate complaint.
Mrs A doesnt think NatWest has treated F fairly. She says that her company was eligible for 
the loan, as it had been trading on 1 March 2020 as required  and that the banks recall of 
the loan adversely impacted the business. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. He said, in summary, that:
NatWest had carried out appropriate checks in line with the rules of the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme and its broader legal and regulatory responsibilities. The initial 
application had been accepted on the basis of Fs self-declarations in line with the 
Scheme rules, but the bank was expected and entitled to keep things under review.
He didnt think F had been trading prior to 1 March 2020, noting that  while it had 
been incorporated and opened its account with NatWest in January 2020  thered 
been no business-related transactions running through its account over the relevant 
period.
Mrs A had transferred a portion of the Bounce Back Loan to her personal account 
and said that shed intended to use this to pay off some personal borrowing  which 
he thought would amount to a breach of the loan conditions that required the loan to 
be used for the purposes of Fs business. 
The companys ineligibility and the intended use of the funds for personal purposes 
entitled NatWest to terminate the loan agreement and recall the funds.
The banks related actions in blocking Fs account while looking into things, as well 
as closing the account and using the funds held within it to pay down the loan, were 
all allowed for under the terms and conditions. And he didnt think they were 
unreasonable measures in the circumstances. 
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators view. She still thought that F had been eligible for the 
loan, which she thought was demonstrated by transactions on the companys accounts and 
that it had obtained a separate coronavirus-related grant. She also said that she didnt 
actually utilise the loan funds for personal purposes  and that her honest intentions were 
evidenced by the fact that not all the funds had been spent immediately.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a business 
could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular relevance here, 
these included that:
The applicant was engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date of 
the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and had been adversely 
affected by coronavirus.
The loan amount could be no more than 25% of the applicants annual turnover, 
which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 calendar year. Businesses 
established after 1 January 2019 could use an estimate.
The loan would be used to provide economic benefit to the business and not for 
personal purposes.
NatWest approved Fs application on the strength of the companys self-declaration that it 
met these criteria. In keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants self-attested to 
eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process applications and provide funds 
quickly. But when the bank subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with 
its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements  it concluded that F wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained. 
I think NatWests decision was reasonable, primarily because there is very little evidence to 
show that F was engaged in trading either on 1 March 2020 or carrying on business at the 
time of its Bounce Back Loan application. While the company was incorporated on 2 January 
2020, this doesnt automatically mean it was engaged in trading. Most notably, its NatWest 
bank account statements dont show any business activity in the months prior to its loan 
application.
Mrs A has sent us some documents that she believes demonstrate the companys trading 
status, including utility bills, company accounts and a rent deposit deed. All of these suggest 
a level of activity, but none show that the company was trading at the requisite time. The 
utility bills dont cover the period in question  being dated in 2021 and 2022. While the 
company accounts cover the period 1 January 2020 to 1 January 2021, they dont 
demonstrate that F was engaged in trading at any particular point in time during that period. 
In other words, the company could just as easily have started trading on 2 March 2020 
onwards, rather than any point prior. And although the rent deposit deed is dated 11 October 2019, this is in Mrs As name rather than Fs  and, in any event, doesnt in and of itself 
evidence any trading activity. 
Ive also considered what Mrs A has said about the local authority grant that F obtained. But 
the fact that the company obtained this support doesnt evidence that it was trading prior to 
1 March 2020. Fs eligibility for the grant wouldnt necessarily have been subject to the same 
criteria or to any checks that would confirm the position. 
Ive also noted that £20,000 of the £25,000 grant was transferred to one of Mrs As personal 
accounts on receipt, which raises further questions as to what business activity F was 
conducting such that it didnt need to utilise these monies itself.
In the same way, £25,000 of the £50,000 Bounce Back Loan funds were moved to an 
account of Mrs As a few days after the loan was drawn down. And the Bounce Back Loan 
could only be used for Fs business purposes, which was unlikely to be achieved by their 
relocation to a personal account held by Mrs A.
Ive also borne in mind that to be eligible for the £50,000 loan it obtained, F wouldve needed 
an annual turnover figure in excess of £200,000. It declared a turnover of £230,000, but 
there is little evidence to confirm that this figure was accurate. It had been entitled to use an 
estimate  but as there was no trading activity or turnover to speak of prior to its application, 
it is hard to see any reasonable grounds for this amount. It is notable that the companys 
filed returns for 2020/21 show a much lower figure  of around £50,000.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, NatWest was entitled to terminate 
the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where 
any confirmation or information given by F, which the bank considered material, was 
inaccurate. It also included a failure to comply with the terms of the agreement, which 
specified that the loan was to be used wholly for Fs business purposes. Taking into account 
all of the above, I think NatWest was entitled to terminate the loan in the circumstances here. 
Under the terms and conditions of Fs account and the loan agreement, NatWest had the 
right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held by F in any other 
account with NatWest towards the repayment of any amounts the company owed to the 
bank. So I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in removing the funds from Fs account 
and applying these to reduce the amount outstanding on the Bounce Back Loan.
The actions NatWest took when restricting and later closing Fs account were in line with the 
applicable terms and conditions and  given all Ive said about the validity of its concerns 
over Fs entitlement to the loan  were reasonable steps for the bank to take. 
Looking at everything then, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in how it terminated 
and recalled the Bounce Back Loan from F, or in restricting and closing the companys bank 
account. It follows that there is no basis on which I could fairly hold it responsible for any 
impact this may have had on the company. So Im not requiring the bank to take any action 
in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 Ben Jennings
Ombudsman