DRN-2977199
The complaint
Mr L complains about the time it took Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) to sell some of 
his shares. He feels there was an unreasonable delay, which meant he lost money because 
the sale price fell.
What happened
On 16 March 2020, Mr L used an online platform to instruct HSBL to sell two lots of his 
shares. One sale took about 30 minutes to complete, and the other about 45. 
In response to Mr Ls complaint, Halifax said they received an increased level of customer 
contact in March 2020. They explained that theyd sold the shares in line with their 
processes, and felt their service had been reasonable as a result. 
Mr L added to his complaint as it went on. He wasnt happy HSDL wouldnt tell him what 
order theyd carried out the sale instructions theyd received on 16 March. He felt they were 
trying to hide that other customers had been prioritised over him. He also wasnt happy hed 
not been able to reach anyone on the phone to try to cancel the instructions while he was 
waiting. And a friend of his told him that a share price Mr L had seen on HSDLs website 
wasnt right. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. Our investigator looked at the details of the share 
sales, and found these had been done in line with HSDLs terms and conditions  which said 
instructions couldnt be cancelled, and didnt set a specific timescale for how long it would 
take to follow an instruction. He also said that the prices on HSDLs website would be 
different to the prices achieved when a share was sold, as the market moved during the day. 
And he later commented on HSDL not telling Mr L about the queue hed been in on 16 
March, accepting this was commercially sensitive information. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings, saying the question was really whether HSDL 
had been negligent. He felt they should have set their system up better to deal with events 
like were seen in March 2020. 
Given our investigator couldnt resolve it informally, the complaints now come to me for a 
formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why, focusing on the 
crux of the complaint  the time it took to follow Mr Ls instruction. 
As a starting point for deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive looked at HSDLs terms and 
conditions for the service they agreed to give Mr L. Id generally expect a business to do 
what it said it would do, in order to provide a reasonable level of service. 
The key terms are the ones that speak about the time HSDL would take to follow an 
instruction. HSDL didnt commit to a specific amount of time  the terms just say theyd act 
as soon as reasonably practicable. 
I can accept what HSDL have said about receiving more customer contact in March 2020. 
There was a significant change in the value of many shares at that point, so I can appreciate 
more people than usual were trying to trade to manage that. 
That in turn would have affected what was reasonably practicable for HSDL, as more 
instructions take longer to deal with. So while the time taken to act on Mr Ls instruction 
might have been longer than he was expecting from previous experience, it reflected that 
lots of people gave HSDL instructions at the time. 
It also explains why Mr L was having trouble speaking to someone on the phone  the 
phones were busy. Thered only be a certain number of people on the phone lines, and if all 
of them were speaking to other people, Mr L would have had to wait. 
Mr Ls talked about HSDL planning and building contingency into their systems, but the 
events of March 2020 were in many ways unique. So I can understand if HSDLs systems 
hadnt been built with precisely those events in mind.
I find HSDL have kept to the terms of their agreement with Mr L  they acted as soon as was 
reasonably practicable. I also find it reasonable that they were slowed down by more people 
than they were expecting contacting them. 
I dont agree with Mr L that theres evidence of negligence here. His instruction was received 
and acted on correctly. It just took some time, because there were a lot of other instructions 
from other customers to deal with too. I cant see evidence of a mistake or other issue that 
tells me HSDL were negligent. 
I can also understand why HSDL didnt want to tell Mr L how many people they had 
instructions from that day, or what place he was in the queue to sell shares. That information 
could reveal parts of HSDLs share dealing strategy and approach, which in turn could affect 
the prices theyre able to trade at. I find it reasonable for HSDL to consider the information 
commercially sensitive, and not tell Mr L. I find theyve treated him fairly by being open with 
him that the reason for not telling him was commercial sensitivity.
Ive not seen evidence of what price HSDL were showing for a certain share on 16 or 
20 March. But from Mr Ls comments, his decision to sell further shares on 20 March was 
driven by the general fall in their price at the time. That tells me it wasnt the price at any one 
time that drove his action  rather it was the belief that the share price would continue to fall. 
As such, whatever the reason for any mismatch in the price of the shares on HSDLs 
service, it doesnt seem like that would have changed Mr Ls actions, or caused him any 
detriment. For that reason  and the fact this isnt directly linked to the main delay issue  Im 
not going to consider the point further. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman