DRN-2728737
The complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of repairs made 
to the vehicle to be refunded.
What happened
Mr A is represented in this complaint by Mrs F. But for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr A had the misfortune and inconvenience of the vehicle experiencing a 
breakdown within a couple of months of him acquiring it.
Our investigator issued a view in which he recommended that Mr As complaint be upheld. 
And he thought that Moneybarn should cover the repair costs of £925.89, subject to proof of 
payment of those costs being supplied by Mr A.
Moneybarn initially disagreed with that view. It asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
But before I was able to do so, Moneybarn told us that it now accepted that it should cover 
the costs of repair.
But it also informed us that Mr As account was substantially in arrears, to an amount of 
more than £3,600. And it suggested that - rather than directly refund the repair cost - it 
should credit it to Mr As account and reduce the level of arrears.
Im now aware that Mr A hasnt yet settled the repair bill with the garage that did the work, a 
business Ill refer to as P.
As Im dealing with a complaint about Moneybarn, its not my role to intervene in any 
arrangements which Mr A may have made with P. Thats a private matter between him and 
that business. And whilst I understand that hes asked Moneybarn to make payment to P 
directly, thats not something that I could require it to do. That specific debt exists between 
Mr A and P - not between Moneybarn and P. And Im not able to order Moneybarn to make 
payment to anyone or any business which isnt a party to this complaint.
My determination of this complaint is based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And this service wouldnt recommend that a consumer withhold contractual payments. But I 
could perhaps, have understood if Mr A had used some of the monthly payments he was 
due to make to Moneybarn and instead used them to settle the garage repair bill. But it 
appears that whilst retaining use of the vehicle hes not made payments to either Moneybarn 
nor P. In those circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to credit Mr As 
account. Rather than make a refund in cash terms.
Ive not seen a final invoice  as opposed to an estimate of costs  although it may be that 
the amounts are the same. So I will limit the amount which should be credited to Mr As 
account to the lesser of the final invoice cost or £925.89.
As Mr A hasnt paid the repair bill, I shant ask Moneybarn to add any amount of interest to 
the sum credited. Mr A hasnt lost the use of the funds that would otherwise have gone 
towards paying for repairs.
In summary, as Moneybarn has accepted that it should refund the repair costs, I think given 
the overall level of arrears that this should be done by way of a credit to the account.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should credit Mr As account with £925.89 or such sum  not exceeding this 
amount  which represents the final invoice for repairs.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
paragraph.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman