DRN-4479359
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the fact that he has been asked to pay over £6,000 in hire 
charges as a result of what he considers to be the poor handling of his claim under his taxi 
insurance policy by Haven Insurance Company Limited. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident in which his taxi was damaged. The accident wasnt his 
fault so Haven referred him to a company, who Ill refer to as S, which organises hire cars on 
credit and claims the costs back from the other drivers insurer (the third party insurer (TPI)). 
S arranged a hire car for Mr H and it seems he signed a hire agreement and a credit 
agreement. These meant  in effect - he was borrowing the money to pay the hire charges. 
However, provided S was able to recover the hire costs from the TPI it would have paid off 
what Mr H borrowed to pay for these. To do this S needed Mr H to co-operate and provide 
certain information to support the claim for the hire costs. And it appointed a solicitor to 
handle recovery of its costs, including the hire costs from the TPI. Ill refer to the solicitor as 
F. It seems initially Mr H refused to co-operate with S and F and provide all the information 
they needed. And S has said it was unable to recover the hire costs because of Mr Hs 
failure to co-operate and this left what Mr H had borrowed for the hire car outstanding and 
his responsibility. 
Mr H complained to Haven about this, but Haven said it was not its responsibility, as it had 
referred him to S, which is an independent company. 
Mr H asked us to consider his complaint about Haven. One of our investigators did this. He 
said that Haven hadnt met its obligation to treat Mr H fairly because it hadnt properly 
explained what was happening when it referred Mr H to S. And because it failed to offer him 
the option to have a hire taxi under the guaranteed taxi hire extension to his policy. He felt if 
Haven had fulfilled its obligations Mr H would have opted to have a hire taxi under his policy 
with Haven and not through S. And that this would have meant he never would have had to 
pay the hire costs. He said that Haven should pay Mr H £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced and pay off what he owed for the hire taxi. 
Haven didnt agree with the investigators view. It said it didnt think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to have to pay off what Mr H owed for hire costs because he failed to co-
operate with S and F, provide the evidence they needed and attend court. And that this was 
the main reason hed ended up being responsible for the hire costs. And hed been warned 
multiple times of the financial implications of not co-operating.
As Haven didnt agree with the investigators view the complaint passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and Ive explained why below.
I agree with our investigator that when Haven referred Mr H to S, it needed to be very clear 
on what hiring a taxi through S would mean for him. And it also needed to make it clear that 
he had the option of having a hire taxi for 21 days under his own policy while his car was in 
for repair. Haven can find out more about what we expect when an insurer or insurance 
broker refers one of its customers to a credit hire company on our website. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation Haven had with Mr H when it referred him to S. 
And I dont think it explained what this would mean for Mr S anywhere near clearly enough. 
And I think it should have offered Mr H the option to have a hire taxi under the extension to 
his policy he had that provided this option. I appreciate Haven has said it didnt offer this 
because Mr H could only use it once in the policy year and it was better for him to keep the 
option in case he had a fault claim. And its also said if the repairs took longer than 21 days 
he would no longer have been able to have the hire taxi. But I do not consider this was a 
reasonable approach on Havens part. Mr H had the cover extension and it should have 
been left to him to decide whether he wanted to use it.  
I also agree with our investigator that if Mr H had properly understood the implications of 
hiring a taxi through S and been offered the option of a hire taxi under the extension to his 
policy, he would not have agreed to hire one through S and would instead have taken the 
option of having a hire taxi under the policy extension.
This does mean that Mr H wouldnt have ended up having to pay the cost of hiring a 
replacement taxi. But, in deciding whats fair and reasonable I think I need to consider 
whether it was properly explained to Mr H that he could avoid this if he co-operated with S 
and provided the information he needed. And, if it was, whether it is appropriate to make 
Haven pay the hire costs if Mr H chose not to co-operate and provide the information S and 
F needed. 
Haven has suggested Mr H didnt co-operate and this is why F appears to have agreed an 
out of court settlement with the TPI excluding the hire costs. And it seems clear from the 
evidence provided by H that initially Mr S wouldnt co-operate. However, I have seen a note 
in what seems to be Havens claims notes dated 14 September 2022, which suggests Mr H 
changed his mind and said he was willing to co-operate and attend court if needed and that 
hed provided the documentation F needed. Ive also seen an email from F, which seems to 
be to S, which is undated but also suggests Mr H was willing to co-operate and attend court. 
In view of this, it is not clear why F settled out of court excluding the hire costs, but it does 
not appear to be due to Mr Hs unwillingness to cooperate.
Therefore, I agree with our investigator that the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Hs 
complaint is for Haven to pay the hire costs he has become responsible for as soon as 
possible, so that Mr H is no longer pursued for this amount. I say this because if H had done 
what it should have done when Mr H first contacted them he would not have ended up 
incurring these costs. 
I also agree with our investigator that Haven should pay Mr H compensation for the fact its 
poor approach when it referred him to S caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr H 
ended up with the hassle and the shock of finding out hed have to co-operate with S and 
take time to provide evidence it needed. He also found out he may have to attend court. As it 
turned out he didnt have to attend court and I cant ignore the fact that some of the 
difficulties he experienced were as a result of his unwillingness to co-operate with S and F 
originally, despite them explaining the importance of him doing so. So, I think a payment of £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint and make Haven pay 
the hire costs Mr H has become responsible for as soon as possible. Haven must also pay 
him £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and order Haven Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive set 
out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman