DRN-3536661
The complaint
Mr B has brought a range of complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in relation to his 
business accounts.
What happened
The background of these complaints has been detailed by our Investigator previously. For 
this reason, Im going to summarise matters within this decision.
Mr B has brought various complaints to this Service concerning HSBCs actions 
about his business accounts.
The merits of another of these complaints about Mr Bs business accounts has been 
considered by this Service under a separate reference. That complaint covers 
whether HSBC acted fairly in closing his accounts. I will address these points 
separately within the respective final decision.
This complaint concerns the matters of HSBC completing a Safeguard review of his 
accounts, arrears and defaults on his business credit card and current account.
Arrears and defaults
oIn February 2020 Mr Bs account went into an unarranged overdraft. HSBC 
wrote to him shortly after, asking him to clear this balance, saying if he didnt 
within a few weeks it may close his accounts, recover the balance through 
other means and mark it as a default to credit reference agencies (CRA). 
oAround this time it also wrote to Mr B to notify him of a default on his business 
credit card balance and outlined potential consequences if this wasnt paid.
oMr B spoke to HSBC in branch to say he could make a payment, but wanted 
to ensure this would clear his account balance, and not his credit card. Mr B 
didnt hear back and the account was closed, debt passed to arrears team, 
and a default marker applied.
oHSBC agreed it didnt get back to Mr B as it shouldve done, and in turn it 
didnt give him an opportunity to settle the balance. So, it wrote the 
outstanding balance off and said it had removed relevant credit markers for 
both his business account and business credit card account.
oHSBC has since said it hadnt removed the relevant CRA markers but still 
agreed to do so. And it provided him with compensation of around £700.
oOur Investigator was satisfied HSBCs redress was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Safeguarding
oHSBC contacted Mr B about completing its Safeguard review. It sent various 
letters and text messages that reiterated this. And it explained it may close 
the account if this wasnt completed.
oOur Investigator was satisfied HSBC was able to determine its own security 
systems to protect itself and customers from fraud. And there was no 
evidence to suggest it had singled out Mr B when completing this review.
Mr B put forward points to our Investigator about the text messages received and the 
account being open longer than advised. Our Investigator looked again and 
reiterated HSBC had given him sufficient notice and its decision to complete the 
review was fair. And that any direct debits not paid after the account was closed 
would fall to Mr B to arrange.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Arrears and defaults
HSBC has agreed that it didnt handle this outstanding balance issue as it should. 
And it has acknowledged that its mistake of not contacting Mr B when it agreed to led 
to him losing out on the opportunity to settle the balance.
So, I see no reason in going over the same topics as theres no dispute that HSBC 
has made an error that caused Mr B to lose out.
In recognition it apologised, cleared the outstanding balance on the account, agreed 
to remove all relevant credit markers, and compensated Mr B with a payment of 
£709.06.
Im satisfied these actions put Mr B back into the position he wouldve been in had 
things not gone wrong, and the compensation makes up for the impact of the distress 
and inconvenience of its actions. So Im not going to direct it to do anything further.
Safeguarding
Im satisfied HSBCs decision to complete Safeguarding reviews of accounts is a 
commercial decision. So, this isnt something this Service would interfere with. 
However, this Service would expect any review or rules to be applied fairly and 
consistently. 
From everything Ive seen, Mr B has been treated as any other customer would be in 
similar circumstances. So, Im satisfied its request to ask him to complete the security 
form was reasonable. 
HSBC has shared details of various letters and text messages that highlighted the 
importance of this. These persuade me that HSBC had also given Mr B regular and 
reasonable notification of the significance of this request. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jack BaldryOmbudsman