DRN-4293472
The complaint
Mr J complains Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc recorded missed mortgage payments on his credit 
file that affected his re-mortgage application and caused him financial problems.
What happened
Mr J had a residential mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI). In 2022 he applied to  
re-mortgage with another lender when his fixed term interest rate deal with BoI was coming 
to an end. 
The re-mortgage was due to complete in early November. He spoke to BoI and let them 
know hed cancelled his direct debit for his contractual monthly payment (CMP) to them. He 
wanted to avoid two mortgage payments being taken, one by each lender, given the          
re-mortgage was meant to go through in the next few days.
The re-mortgage was delayed. Mr J spoke to BoI again. He wanted to make sure his failure 
to make his CMP to them wouldnt be recorded as missed payments and affect his credit file. 
He understood from his conversations with BoI that theyd agreed to that.
The re-mortgage delays continued. It was about to complete in around March 2023. But the 
new lender required a new credit check because of the delays. And, following that, they 
refused to lend. 
Mr J discovered BoI had recorded the missed payments and he complained. He blamed 
them for the re-mortgage not going through. He asked for the entries on his credit file to be 
removed. And he was unhappy with their delay in dealing with his complaint. BoI agreed 
they hadnt told Mr J about the credit file implications. But they said hed agreed to BoI 
reporting arrears under the terms and conditions of his mortgage. They were obliged to 
report the history of his account truthfully. And they refused to remove the credit file entries.
Mr J didnt accept BoIs outcome. He said hed relied on their advice in not making his CMP. 
And he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said BoIs actions 
had caused his CMP to increase and become unaffordable. Hed had to enter into 
agreements with other creditors which had adversely affected his credit file and would do so 
for the future. To put things right he wanted BoI to remove the credit entries for the missed 
payments and to be compensated for what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt think BoI had been wrong to report the missed payments. But she 
said theyd provided some confusing information. And to put things right, they should pay   
Mr J £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr J didnt agree. He thought our investigators view was contradictory. If she thought BoI 
had given confusing information, she couldnt then say theyd done enough to let him know 
the arrears would be reported. If hed known they would be, he would have paid. 
Since Mr Js complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling about his complaint and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficult financial situation hes in. Ive listened to call recordings, considered BoIs records 
and taken into account what Mr J and BoI have told us, including recent information 
concerning a call Mr J had with his second charge lender. I wont set it all out here. No 
discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide. Ive focused on what I consider key to my decision. Whilst I understand Mr J will be 
disappointed, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons.
Mr J was obliged to pay his CMP under the terms and conditions of his mortgage. Lenders 
may share information with credit reference agencies (CRAs) about missed payments. And 
under the mortgage terms and conditions Mr J authorised BoI to, broadly, pass information 
to CRAs about the way in which hed managed the mortgage. The question here is whether 
it was fair for BoI to do so in the circumstances of this case.
In October 2022 Mr J missed a direct debit payment for his CMP with BOI. Mr J explained to 
BoI hed cancelled the direct debit since hed understood his re-mortgage would go through 
shortly and the arrears would be paid at that time. He hadnt wanted to be in the position of 
making a CMP to both BoI and the new lender. 
In early November 2022 BoI asked Mr J to contact them to discuss his account. Hed missed 
two CMPs. Mr J explained hed re-mortgaged, was due to make a direct debit payment to 
the new lender shortly and the BoI mortgage ought to have been paid off. Mr J asked BoI to 
record that he wasnt refusing to pay, he was able to pay, and he didnt want the failure to 
pay to be recorded as missed payments. BoI said hed need to speak to a different team 
about the redemption and provided the relevant contact details; theyd stop sending chasers 
while things were sorted out; and theyd make a note of what theyd discussed. 
In fact, BoI did chase Mr J. They rang him, wrote to him and texted him at the end of 
November letting him know he was in arrears and asking him to contact them to arrange to 
bring the mortgage up to date. 
Mr J says he didnt receive BoIs written correspondence. It was properly addressed. And 
Ive no reason to think the letters werent sent or that they wouldnt have been delivered to   
him. But BoI also sent Mr J a text message at the end of November mentioning possible 
administration fees and possession action if a solution to the arrears couldnt be found. BoIs 
internal records at the time noted the missed payments were likely to have an impact on    
Mr Js credit file. 
Mr J contacted BoI to discuss things in early December 2022. By then hed missed two 
CMP. He referred to his previous discussions; said the new lender had taken a CMP but due 
to errors by the solicitors the BoI mortgage hadnt been redeemed. He arranged to make one 
CMP to BoI to tide it over and said the whole balance would be paid in the following two 
weeks. 
BoI said their records showed his solicitors may have found it difficult to get a redemption 
statement from their customer services team and offered to transfer Mr J to their redemption 
team to discuss steps for closing the mortgage off. The redemption team noted he was two 
months in arrears and making one payment wouldnt resolve that. Mr J explained the delays 
relating to the re-mortgage and said again he didnt want the missed payments recorded as 
late.Mr J told BoI several times why hed cancelled the direct debit, why hed failed to pay the 
CMP and that he didnt want the missed payments to count against him. He was clearly 
aware of the possible impact on his credit file the arrears could have. BoI were treating Mr J 
as a customer in arrears by sending him letters and texts and requesting contact to discuss 
the account. Although BoI didnt tell him clearly on the calls that he should make the 
payments and clear the arrears to avoid them being recorded, they didnt give him any 
reassurance either that the arrears wouldnt be recorded when he said he didnt want them 
to be. 
Although BoI initially told Mr J, broadly, that they wouldnt chase him for payment, they 
continued to do so. I think Mr J ought reasonably to have been aware from the contact BoI 
had with him that a failure to pay could result in BoI taking action against him. Arguably BoI 
could have done more to make it clear to Mr J that his failure to make payments in October 
and November would adversely affect his credit file if he didnt pay the arrears. Hed said 
several times he didnt want the missed payments recorded. BoI had several chances, up to 
and including the conversation in early December 2022, to let him know they would be. 
But even if I thought it was reasonable for Mr J to think the missed payments from October 
and November wouldnt be reported, I dont think that makes a difference to the outcome of 
his complaint. Thats because I dont think Mr J could reasonably have thought BoI would 
continue to hold off when hed told them he was able to pay, theyd been chasing him for 
payment, and hed missed further payments.
Whilst I understand Mr J had limited knowledge of how the re-mortgage process worked, 
hed also given contradictory information about the status of the re-mortgage up to early 
December 2022. On the one hand Mr J had said the re-mortgage had gone through and 
thered been a delay in redeeming the BoI mortgage due to a mistake by the solicitors. On 
the other hed said the re-mortgage had been delayed. It wouldnt have been unreasonable 
for BoI to have had some concerns about the position or whether the re-mortgage would go 
ahead. 
BoIs records suggest they didnt report any arrears until mid-January 2023. But even if Im 
wrong about that, given the BoI mortgage hadnt been redeemed, despite Mr Js assurances 
in October, November and December it would be paid off shortly - and there was then a 
further delay - I dont think it was unreasonable for BoI to report the arrears. 
Its unfortunate problems arose in relation to the re-mortgage. But that wasnt BoIs fault. Im 
not aware Mr J kept BoI updated about what was going on after December 2022. I think he 
ought reasonably to have contacted BoI to discuss things and/or clear the arrears and pay 
the CMP falling due when the re-mortgage was delayed again. Im not aware he did that. 
Nothing more seems to have been heard from him or his solicitors after they asked for 
another redemption statement in January 2023 until BoI contacted him to discuss the 
ongoing arrears in early March 2023. 
Bearing all of the above in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for BoI to report the 
missed payments to the CRAs.
Our investigator felt it was reasonable for BoI to pay Mr J compensation of £200. I agree. 
The information BoI gave Mr J when they spoke to him in early November led him to believe 
they wouldnt take any action in relation to the arrears. They did then chase him. So, I can 
understand that caused some confusion and inconvenience for a limited period. But given 
the later events Ive mentioned, it wouldnt be fair to ask BoI to do anything further. Putting things right
BoI should pay Mr J compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Mr J £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman