DRN-2433720
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim under a landlords 
property insurance policy. 
What happened
In summary, an escape of water in March 2018 caused significant damage to Mr Gs 
property. Mr G is unhappy with the length of time taken for AXA to repair the property and 
considers his losses and compensation havent been fairly met by AXA. Mr G says there 
were significant delays because of disagreements over the extent of works. 
AXA covered some losses but the ones in dispute are as follows; 
- Gardening costs of £500 to maintain the garden while uninhabitable and/or repairs 
taking place.
- Personal travel costs to attend the property to clean it and meet AXAs 
representatives. Using the HMRC mileage rate Mr G says this loss amounts to 
£2,365.20 based on 18 round trips.
- Cleaning costs in terms of the time he and his wife spent at the property cleaning it. 
He assesses this at £5,000 based on a cleaners minimum wage.
AXA offered a general payment for distress and inconvenience of £1,300 and an extra £500 
for fuel costs. AXA said as landlord Mr G would have incurred costs anyway as he had a 
responsibility to maintain the property, but it agreed to offer half the gardening cost (£250).
One of our investigators considered matters up to June 2019 when AXAs final response 
was issued. She said there were around 12 months where little happened on the claim and 
some of Mr Gs travelling costs wouldnt have been incurred had the claim been handled 
appropriately. She thought AXAs agreed offer to pay a total of £1,800 compensation and 
half the gardening costs was fair. She considered that many trips to the property would have 
happened anyway  theres always a degree of inconvenience in dealing with such a large 
damage claim, and general property maintenance is a landlords responsibility.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, and in summary states;
- Hes provided fuel receipts for three years two of which show heavy usage.
- He thinks he and his wife should be compensated for the time spent going back and 
forth at an hourly rate and the amount offered is an insult. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns fair compensation for unnecessary delays and the 
impact these had on Mr G. And like the investigator this decision considers matters up to the 
final response in June 2019.
The current offer AXA has agreed to amounts to £2,050;
- Fuel costs - £500
- Gardening costs - £250 (50% of what Mr G paid)
- Compensation for distress and inconvenience - £1,300
Mr G believes AXA should pay him considerably more, including more than £2,000 for fuel 
and at least £5,000 to reflect the time he and his wife have spent going to and from the 
property.
The staring point for me is to say the escape of water and subsequent damage was always 
going to cause inconvenience. And as landlord Mr G was always likely to need to invest time 
during the claim process in meetings and discussions about schedule of works and costings. 
And with the tenant having to move out this added a further aspect around monitoring of the 
property, essential maintenance outside the claim itself such as gardening. But having said 
that there were periods of delay that AXA has accepted, where little happened for prolonged 
periods.
Mr Gs claim for compensation is based on 18 visits to the property, a round trip of circa 290 
miles from where he lives. Im not persuaded that Mr G has demonstrated all these were a 
consequence of delays, or necessary because of what AXA had, or hadnt done. So, its 
extremely difficult to assess with any precision or reliability what visits were necessary and 
actually took place. Were an informal dispute resolution service largely assessing cases 
based on the information we receive. And we dont have the same powers as a court to 
rigorously test evidence through, for example, taking evidence on oath and subjecting it to 
cross examination. 
Im not persuaded from what Mr G has sent us that all 18 trips were necessary as a direct 
consequence of AXAs delays. And he estimates a round trip cost between £51 and £70 
depending on the vehicle used. Taking into account what Mr G has said about his costs, at 
its height, 18 trips is in the range £918 - £1,260. But as Ive said, Im not persuaded hes 
shown all these trips were necessary as a direct consequence of the delays. And indeed, 
Ive noted the difficulty in assessing what was necessary and actually took place. 
AXA has offered £500 to reflect additional fuel costs and thats in the region of half the cost 
Mr G estimates. Im mindful that fuel prices vary and so would unlikely have been a constant 
£1.359 per litre that Mr G has referred to. Having balanced all this carefully Im satisfied 
£500 is a fair offer in all the circumstances. It meets an approximate half way point and in the 
absence of anything more persuasive Im satisfied thats fair.
Regarding the gardening costs Im satisfied half the amount Mr G has claimed from AXA is 
fair  while Mr G may have expected this to be something the tenant would look after his 
policy doesnt cover gardening costs. That said, delays meant the property couldnt be re-let 
as quickly as it should have. So, while some costs will fall to a landlord where a property is 
unoccupied, I think the investigators opinion and AXAs offer to cover half the cost is fair. 
The final issue for determination concerns general compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Im aware that Mr G factors in his and his wifes inconvenience here. Im not 
persuaded that his 2011 salary rate or hypothetical cleaner hourly rate, as hes advanced, is 
appropriate or would lead to a fair outcome. We generally look at the overall impact of a mistake and so we dont use an hourly rate real or otherwise. Its accepted that Mr G 
experienced delay and made some trips he wouldnt ordinarily have to with his wife. In total 
AXAs offer amounts to £1,300 and Im satisfied this fairly reflects the general inconvenience 
and for the inconvenience of some additional trips to the insured property.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc must do the following to put things right;
- Ensure £1,300 compensation is paid to Mr G (if it hasnt already)
- Ensure £500 is paid to Mr G to reflect a portion of additional fuel costs (if it hasnt 
already)
- Ensure £250 is paid to Mr G as a share of the gardening costs (if it hasnt already).
- AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman