DRN-3125370
The complaint
Miss H complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to her.   
What happened
Miss H was approved for a £6,000 loan by TFS in November 2013. The term of the loan was 
72 months, with monthly repayments of £234.99.  
Miss H says the loan was unaffordable to her. She says TFS did not complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks. She says had TFS done so, it wouldve realised the loan was 
unaffordable to her. She says she was experiencing financial difficulties and had issues 
managing credit in the past.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They argued that TFS shouldve completed further 
checks. But in any event; the information it had at the time demonstrated that TFS shouldnt 
have approved Miss Hs loan application. Our investigator noted:
Miss H was using this loan to complete property renovations (even though she was a 
tenant) and as such was increasing her overall level of indebtedness;
TFSs checks showed Miss H had a number of issues managing credit in the past. 
The credit report it obtained showed Miss H had a number of historic defaults;
The checks showed Miss H had been borrowing from payday lenders in the lead up 
to this loan being approved;
There was evidence Miss H was in financial hardship; and
The information TFS gathered showed the loan was always likely unaffordable to 
Miss H.
TFS disagreed with our investigators recommendation. It argued that whilst there were 
some historic defaults on Miss Hs credit file; the recent credit she had taken out had been 
maintained well. TFS argued its checks were proportionate; and these showed the loan was 
likely affordable to Miss H.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a Final 
Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint.   
TFS has objected to our investigators recommendations on the basis that it feels the loan 
was affordable to Miss H. It says that the negative information on Miss Hs credit file was 
historic and doesnt mean the loan was unaffordable to her. It says it completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks; and these showed the loan was likely affordable to Miss H.
As TFS loans is aware the regulations which applied at the time, required it to carry out an 
assessment on whether Miss H could repay any loan in a sustainable way. These checks 
are referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means TFS needed to consider if any repayments which Miss H would be required to 
make would cause her any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on her 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. It is also not sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks. It 
also needs to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Ive considered TFSs arguments in relation to Miss Hs complaint; but I disagree that it lent 
to her responsibly. Miss H had explained to our service that she was experiencing financial 
hardship at the time she applied for the loan. And regardless if TFS completed proportionate 
checks in this instance; Im not satisfied that it made a fair decision to lend. As mentioned 
above TFS needed to carefully consider the information it was provided with prior to lending. 
And it needed to be satisfied that any further lending was sustainable to Miss H. Based on 
the information TFS had Im not satisfied it was.
The application which Miss H completed at the time demonstrated that she had disposable 
income of around £536 per month. This was against an income of £1,472.40. TFS verified 
the income via a payslip. TFS had taken note of her mortgage payments; as well as the total 
balances she had via payday lending and her existing mail order account. However it did not 
ask for further living expenses or seek confirmation of her outgoings.
The credit report which TFS obtained however seemingly contradicts this application; and 
places considerable doubt on whether Miss H had the necessary income to meet her 
outgoings. The credit report showed Miss H had issues managing credit in the past. As our 
investigator highlighted Miss H had a number of historic defaults in the past. Whilst these 
markers alone may not be enough to decline an application; I find them significant when 
considering the wider context of Miss Hs ability to manage her finances. They demonstrate 
that she has had issues managing credit in the past; and therefore TFS needed to ensure 
any future lending was appropriate.
The credit report also shows Miss Hs reliance on payday lending and other forms of credit 
had increased in recent times. This may suggest that Miss H was having to supplement her 
income with other forms of credit. From the report it can be seen that she had taken out a 
number of payday loans in the six months lending up to the loan application. Of note is the 
fact that the capital balance of these payday loans was increasing at a significant rate from 
£268 to £1,126 in the space of two months.
Miss Hs existing mail order account, whilst having a small balance on it, also showed signs 
of financial difficulties. There had been recent arrears developing on it, with the worst status 
being two payments behind. These arrears also seemingly coincided with the increase in 
payday lending that Miss H was taking out. These payments are low; and again cast considerable doubt on whether Miss H had the disposable income necessary to meet her 
minimum repayments. 
Miss Hs unaffordability is further supported by the calls she had with TFS loans. In these 
calls it is clear Miss H has increasing outgoings. And at one point discussions cover off the 
fact the loan would be unaffordable if Miss H did not consolidate down some of her existing 
debt. However, TFS knew Miss H was planning on using this loan for house renovations; 
and as such was unlikely to be consolidating any of her outstanding debts. 
So taking this information as a whole into context; Im satisfied it is likely Miss H was 
struggling to meet her necessary outgoings at the time she applied for this loan. And was 
likely experiencing financial hardship which meant any further lending was unsustainable for 
her. TFS ought reasonably have concluded this, and seen any further lending was only 
going to add to Miss Hs indebtedness in a harmful way. And as such should not have 
provided her with further credit. 
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require TFS Loans Limited to:
Refund any interest and charges Miss H paid as a result of this loan;
Pay Miss H 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information on Miss Hs credit file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman