DRN-3853341
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his account and registered a default 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had four personal accounts with HSBC  three savings accounts and a current 
account. On 16 November 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr M to say they had taken the decision to 
close his accounts  and sent Mr M a formal demand for the repayment of the overdraft 
balance of £605.32. This asked for repayment by 1 December 2021. On 8 December 2021, 
HSBC sent Mr M a cheque for £1,504.10 for the balance of the three savings accounts. The 
balance of the overdraft was repaid in June 2022.
Mr M complained. He said he hadnt received any notice of closure of the accounts, nor any 
reasons for HSBCs action. He said he had called HSBC to try to pay off the balance of the 
current account, but HSBC refused to accept the money. He had called HSBC several times 
to do so; and to find out why his account was to be closed. HSBC had registered a default 
on his credit file  which had affected his credit rating. He said the whole episode caused 
him a lot of worry and stress.
HSBC said theyd taken the decision to close Mr Ms accounts after a periodic review. They 
sent Mr M a final demand letter on 16 November 2021. HSBC said theyd emailed Mr M on 
19 March 2021 and 23 March 2021 to ask for information about his account, but he hadnt 
responded. They closed Mr Ms accounts on 16 November 2021 in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. The default had been correctly applied as part of the process of 
closure of  the account. HSBC later gave Mr M information as to how to close the account  
by visiting a branch with ID.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC hadnt dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint reasonably.  She said that HSBC could close an account if they wished and didnt 
have to give a reason for their decision. That was in the terms and conditions. It was HSBCs 
commercial decision to take. So  HSBCs decision to close Mr Ms accounts couldnt be 
challenged. 
But our investigation showed that HSBC hadnt asked Mr M for information in March 2021 as 
theyd said. And HSBCs letter of demand dated 16 November 2021 said theyd given two 
months notice of closure  when they hadnt. The letter sent by HSBC on 1 April 2022 was a 
mistake.  She agreed that Mr M had made several calls to HSBC to pay off the balance. She 
said HSBC should pay compensation of £400 for not giving 60 days notice of closure, for 
not calling Mr M back as promised; and for not writing to him in March 2021 as they had said 
they had. She said that HSBC should check there was no default marker on Mr Ms credit 
file, and if there was - they should remove it.
Mr M initially accepted these findings but then asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint. He repeated that the default should be removed. HSBC accepted the 
compensation award but said they didnt have to give two months notice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs terms and conditions say they can close a customers account if they wish; and 
dont have to give a reason for closure; nor do they have to give any advance notice. The 
Terms and conditions say:  Sometimes we can end the agreement and close your accounts 
straight away and not give you any notice. We'll only do this if certain things happen. We've 
set these out below.
You've seriously or persistently broken this agreementYou've behaved inappropriately 
either to us or when using our services.You weren't entitled, or aren't entitled any longer, 
to open or have your account or the serviceYou haven't given us information that we've 
asked for about your tax situationYou've given us false information
We'll also do this if it's reasonable for us to believe that something in the list below has 
happened: You're accessing or using an account, service or money illegally or fraudulently 
You're allowing someone else to do thisYou're using the account in a way not covered 
by our agreementYou're involved, in any criminal activityIt doesn't matter whether or not 
this is linked to banking with usYou've placed us in a position where we might break a law, 
regulation, code, court order or other duty, or requirementYou've exposed us, or another 
HSBC Group company, to action from any government, regulator or law enforcement 
agencyThere's been a breach of security or misuse of your account, security details or a 
payment device.
HSBC told us theyd completed a review and decided to close Mr Ms accounts. We cant 
challenge that - its HSBCs commercial decision to take.
But I agree that the way in which HSBC dealt with the closure wasnt entirely reasonable.
HSBCs final response in June 2022 said theyd given Mr M two months notice of closure. 
We asked HSBC for the correspondence - and they agreed that the notice period hadnt 
been given. I agree that HSBC didnt have to give notice  but the point is that they told Mr M 
they had done so  so, this was an error.
 HSBC also told Mr M that theyd written to Mr M twice in March 2021 to ask him for more 
information about his account activity, and he hadnt responded. We asked HSBC about this 
and they said in fact, that they hadnt done that. So, that was an error also.
Mr M says he tried to call HSBC in November 2021 to find out what was going on, and why. 
He also tried to pay off the amount owing - £605.32. I listened to eight calls he made 
between 22 November 2021 and 8 December 2021. In the third and fourth call he was 
advised the account was closing in line with the terms and conditions  so that was correct. 
On the last four calls, Mr M was trying to pay off the balance  I think it was reasonable to 
think that shouldve been straightforward. And the letter of demand said he should call to pay 
the balance off  which is what he was trying to do.
But each time he was passed between departments and was told on the last call that 
someone would call him back  but no one did. This was clearly a frustrating and time-
consuming experience for Mr M. 
Mr M has said to us that HSBC told us that he didnt make any calls  to be fair to HSBC, 
they didnt say this to us and came forward with the call information  after our investigator 
asked for it. We asked HSBC about the default  and they told us that a default wasnt added to Mr Ms 
credit file. Even though HSBCs final response said it had been so. While I accept what 
HSBC has said here  this final decision mandates HSBC to check this and remove any 
default registered.
In summary, while HSBC were entitled to close Mr Ms accounts if they wished - the way by 
which they did that wasnt reasonable. They didnt give two months notice (as they said they 
had); they hadnt asked Mr M for information about his accounts (as they said they had); and 
they didnt enable Mr M pay off the amount owed as he tried to do. And Mr M had to make 
eight calls to get to the bottom of what was going on  and to try to pay off the balance. 
In considering what award to make, we have set down some criteria. We say an award of up 
to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that 
needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. I think its fair to say that what happened to Mr M falls 
into this category, and so I agree that compensation of £400 is right here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience. If Mr M wishes to accept, 
he should advise his bank account details.
Ensure there is not a default added to Mr Ms credit file. If there is, remove it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman