DRN-3788963
The complaint
Miss J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited are unfairly asking for payments of 
around £18,000 made to her in respect of her late fathers pension to be repaid. In addition, 
correspondence relating to this issue has been sent to the wrong address despite Miss J 
updating Aviva with her new details, this has caused distress and family tension.
What happened
Since 2010 Miss J has been in receipt of income payments from her late fathers annuity 
policy with Aviva. These payments were due to Miss J in her capacity as executor of her 
fathers estate and based on the 10-year guarantee period which was included in the annuity 
policy when it was set up. 
Documentation from that time confirms that the payments should have stopped in 2015 
when this 10-year period ended. A letter issued to Mr L  the second executor of the estate - 
in January 2010 confirmed that the annuity payments would continue until January 2015. 
Payments mistakenly continued after 2015 with the last payment being made in January 
2019. 
On 19 July 2019 Aviva wrote to Miss J at her address stating that a payment issued to her 
late father had been returned by his bank and as such Aviva required a copy of his death 
certificate.
 
Following on from this on 9 January 2020, 10 February 2020 and 3 March 2020 Aviva sent 
letters to Miss J at her mothers address stating that an overpayment had been made and 
requesting repayment of around £18,000. 
Having been provided with these letters by her mother, Miss J replied on 11 March 2020. 
This reply stated that despite updating her contact details, letters were still being sent to the 
wrong address and asked for further information about the overpayment issue before she 
could decide her approach to the repayment request. Aviva didnt respond to Miss Js letter.
 
On 24 September 2020 Aviva sent a further letter confirming that as no reply to their earlier 
letters had been received, Aviva may have to inform HMRC about the overpayments which 
could then be classed as unauthorised payments and result in tax charges being levied on 
the executors of the estate. This letter was again sent to the incorrect address.
 
Miss J received a letter  to the correct address - from a solicitor on 21 January 2021. This 
firm had been instructed by Aviva to recoup the monies owed. 
Miss Js complaint was acknowledged in writing by Aviva on 26 January 2021 however this 
was again sent to the incorrect address. 
Avivas final response to the complaint was issued on 24 February 2021 with this being sent 
to Miss Js correct address. This accepted the March 2020 letter from Miss J requesting 
further information was not actioned properly and offered £250 to cover the trouble and 
upset caused. Aviva offered to deduct this from the amount owed. The letter also accepted 
that repayment of the funds via a lump sum was not expected and offered to arrange a 
payment plan to facilitate the repayment of the outstanding monies. The letter did not refer to 
any issues regarding letters being sent to the wrong address.
 
Miss J did not accept this outcome and the issue was raised with this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint points raised and concluded that in respect of the 
overpayment issue, Avivas offer was fair. They said it was clear from the evidence on file 
that payments should have stopped in 2015 and as such Aviva were entitled to request 
these monies be repaid. The offer to put a payment plan in place to facilitate this was 
considered appropriate and the amount of £250 offered to compensate for not actioning 
Miss Js March 2020 letter was also considered reasonable. 
The investigator also considered the issue around letters being sent incorrectly to Miss Js 
mothers address. They thought it was clear that these letters had been sent after Miss J had 
updated her contact details with Aviva and as such an additional amount of £350 was 
recommended to cover the trouble and upset caused. It was also stated that as the letters 
were a separate issue, this amount should be paid directly to Miss J rather than being 
deducted from any outstanding overpayment balance. 
Miss J did not agree stating that she did not believe any amount should be repayable as any 
incorrect payments were solely Avivas mistake. Miss J confirmed that she believed the 
whole amount should be written off. 
To try and resolve the issue our investigator asked Aviva for a reply to Miss Js request. 
Aviva confirmed that writing the whole debt off was not considered appropriate as Aviva had 
a responsibility to other policy holders and shareholders to recoup the funds, however if 
Miss J was willing to undertake an income and expenditure calculation exercise to try and 
establish what level of repayment was affordable, they would be willing to write off £350 from 
the balance.
In addition, Aviva also stated that they considered the £350 awarded in respect of letters 
being sent to the incorrect address too high.
As no agreement was reached the case was passed to me. In October 2022 I issued my 
provision decision and explained why I was minded to uphold Miss Js complaint but did not 
believe the overpayment amount should be written off by Aviva. 
My Provisional decision stated:
Dealing firstly with the overpayment issue. I agree with the investigator in that the file is 
clear that the payments should have ceased in 2015. As such an amount has been paid to 
Miss J that should not have been. 
I can appreciate Miss Js stance that as the overpayments were Avivas error, she should not 
have to repay any of the money. However, I do not consider this to be fair. It is accepted that 
Aviva made an error, but I do not consider it reasonable that such an administrative error 
should cost Aviva, its other policy holders and shareholders over £18,000. Within this I have 
also noted that Miss J was told when the payments should end in 2012 and as such an 
argument could be made that Miss J herself should reasonably have been aware that 
overpayments were being made. 
As such Aviva are entitled to seek repayment of the funds. I agree with both Aviva and the 
original investigator that seeking a lump sum repayment of the funds would be unfair and 
place an undue financial burden on Miss J, and as such Avivas offer to put a repayment 
plan in pace to allow the monies to be repaid over time is reasonable. In order to accomplish this an assessment of Miss Js income and expenditure should be completed in order to 
accurately assess what level of payment is affordable. 
As part of the discussions after the investigators initial view, Aviva offered to write off £350 
of the debt as part of the above assessment process. As a starting point I see no reason to 
disagree with this offer, however I would note that the income and expenditure assessment 
process itself should be used to establish what level of repayment is affordable and how 
much of the debt is actually recoverable. 
Moving on to the £250 offer made by Aviva in respect of the issues caused by the incorrect 
handling of Miss Js letter sent in March 2020, I would again agree with the original 
investigator that this is reasonable. Miss J had clearly responded to Avivas letters sent in 
January, February and March 2020, even though they were sent to the incorrect address. 
The fact this letter was missed led to a follow up letter noting the possible involvement of 
HMRC that would no doubt have been worrying to Miss J. 
When considering what amount is reasonable to cover the trouble and upset caused by a 
particular business error, I have to consider the nature of the issue, whether this was an 
ongoing problem and whether the error itself has caused any other problems for the 
consumer. In this instance, whilst the missing of the March 2020 letter did result in further 
letters that should not have been sent, the ultimate outcome has not been affected and as 
such I consider the £250 amount to be fair. Given the March letter and subsequent 
correspondence from Aviva in September 2020 were specifically related to the overpayment 
issue I also consider it appropriate for the £250 to be deducted from the £18,000 outstanding 
amount. 
Finally, I have gone on to consider the fact that numerous Aviva letters were sent incorrectly 
to Miss Js mothers address. 
Our investigator stated that Aviva should pay £350 to Miss J to cover the trouble and upset 
this caused and that as this should be paid to Miss J rather than being deducted from the 
£18,000 as the sending of the letters to the incorrect address was a separate issue to the 
overpayment. 
Initially Aviva stated that they did not believe an additional amount was appropriate as their 
initial £250 offer covered the trouble and upset caused. 
However, this £250 offer was made in respect of the issues caused by their mismanagement 
of Miss Js letter in March 2020. Avivas complaint response letter which detailed their offer 
made no mention of letters being sent to Miss Js mothers address incorrectly and made no 
offer in respect of this. As such I agree with the investigators view to consider this issue 
separately. 
In follow up communication Aviva have also commented that the £350 recommendation 
made by our investigator was a high award for the incorrect addressing of a letter and noted 
an award of £100-£150 is more common. 
I however agree with the investigator. Any award made needs to factor in the unique 
circumstances of each case, not just that a letter was sent to the wrong address but what 
was the content of the letter and what impact has it had. 
In this case the first thing to note is that the error was repeated several times despite Aviva 
being made aware of Miss Js new details. In addition, the letters themselves were of a 
sensitive nature, the information contained informed Miss Js mother of details she had not 
previously been aware of and led to a deterioration in the relationship between Miss J and 
her mother. Given the emotional impact and wider implications of the letters being sent to the wrong address, I consider the amount recommended by the investigator to be 
appropriate. 
I also agree that whilst the content of the letters related to the overpayment, the issues those 
letters have caused Miss J make it appropriate for the £350 to be paid directly to her, rather 
than be deducted from the £18,000.
In my provision decision I asked both Miss J and Aviva to provide any further commentary or 
evidence they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the issuance of my provisional findings Miss J has not provided any additional 
evidence or commentary. Aviva have confirmed they are willing to accept what I have said. 
As such I have concluded the provisional decision issued provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the issues at hand and as such, I am not making any changes to it.
Putting things right
As above  and in line with what was included within the provision decision - I consider the 
repayment of the circa £18,000 overpaid to Miss J to be a reasonable request and as such 
Miss J should undertake the income and expenditure assessment process to establish what 
level of repayment is affordable. 
The £250 amount offered by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to cover the issues created 
by their mismanagement of Miss Js letter in March 2020 must be deducted from any 
outstanding balance. 
The additional amount of £350 that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited offered to write off 
should Miss J undertake the income and expenditure assessment should be considered the 
minimum and not a definitive figure. It is outside the scope of this decision to establish what 
Miss J can and should repay. The outcome of income and expenditure assessment will 
establish what Miss J can repay and what level of the £18,000 is recoverable. 
Regarding the letters sent to Miss Js mothers address in error, an amount of £350 must be 
paid by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited directly to Miss J.
My final decision
For the reasons documented I uphold Miss Js complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to put things right in the way documented above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman