DRN-2784477
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited proposed settlement of her 
motor insurance claim.
All references to Acromas also include their agents
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs W has strong views about what has happened, and she has provided 
numerous submissions to support her complaint. I want to her assure her Ive read and 
considered what shes said carefully. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs W, and by Acromas, to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs Ws vehicle was assessed by Acromas. They said the vehicle would cost around 
£2,124 to repair. Acromas classed the vehicle a write off as they said the costs to 
repair the vehicle would be uneconomical 
Mrs W has raised concerns about the car being deemed a write off and says she was 
not given the opportunity to take the car to her own garage to get a second opinion. 
However, Ive not seen any information that persuades me this was raised with 
Acromas at the time. Acromas are entitled to rely on the opinion of its own engineers, 
mechanics and experts. The vehicle was assessed at a garage and without 
information to suggest otherwise, I cant see Acromas conclusion is obviously wrong
The policy says the most Acromas will pay is the market value of the vehicle, and 
accessories at the time of the loss or damage.  
The policy defines market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle 
of the same make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition as your vehicle 
was immediately before the loss or damage you are claiming for
My role isnt to value a vehicle, but to see if insurer has made fair offer in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use the relevant trade guides as we 
think that is the fairest way to value second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. 
The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling 
price for the same vehicle would be. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower 
than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it
Acromas provided an initial offer of £2,250 which Mrs W disagreed with. Following 
this Acromas consulted the trade guides and increased their offer to £2,555
From consulting the guides, I can see it returned prices of £2,249, £2,300 and £2,555 
(from Cazana, Cap and Glasses). Based on prices given in the trade guides, the 
initial offer was lower than I think would be reasonable for Mrs Ws vehicle. But 
Acromas revised the offer and offered the highest valuation returned by the guides. 
So Im satisfied what Acromas have offered is fair.
Mrs W provided advertisements that show the vehicle for sale at higher prices  Ive 
considered these, but retailers and private sellers tend to advertise for more than the 
vehicles eventual sale price. So, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im more 
persuaded the prices in the trade guides are an accurate reflection of the vehicles 
market value and likely selling price 
So for these reasons, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman