DRN-4195748
The complaint
Ms Y has complained about a mortgage she holds with Lloyds Bank PLC. This complaint 
relates to Ms Ys mortgage payments increasing on the standard variable rate (SVR).
The mortgage is held jointly with two other parties  Mrs R and Mr C - but, whilst theyve 
joined this complaint as eligible complainants, weve only been dealing with Ms Y as she is 
the party living in the property and paying the mortgage. For that reason, Ill simply refer to 
Ms Y in this decision, but that should be taken to mean the other parties as well where 
appropriate.
What happened
Ms Y took out this mortgage many years ago, and I understand the mortgage has been on 
the SVR since 2012.
In July 2022 Ms Y raised a complaint with our service. She said:
I am on a variable mortgage which at the moment I cannot get out of. Of course as the 
base rate has gone up so has my mortgage 5 times this year. I have just received a letter 
from Lloyds to say they are now putting up my mortgage by another 0.25% for no reason. I 
do not think this is the right way for Lloyds to be treating their customers that are already 
struggling knowing our mortgage has gone up 5 times already in a matter of months. Can 
Lloyds just do this because they want to? With the cost of living crisis do they not have a 
duty of care to their customers to do the right thing and help us that are being crippled with 
already high mortgages, bills, food and petrol going up? Please help.
To put things right she said she wanted the lender:
To not add on this extra 0.25% because they want to make more money out of these 
customers that are struggling already.
We passed the complaint to Lloyds and it responded on 1 August 2022.
In its response Lloyds said the Bank of England Base Rate (BoEBR) is one factor it takes 
into account when it reviews its SVR, and the BoEBR had increased by 0.25 percentage 
points, and it had reflected that change with a 0.25 percentage points increase in its SVR. 
Lloyds also said that it could consider some options, such as a new preferential interest rate, 
but for that Ms Y would need to speak to a mortgage adviser. A phone number was provided 
so she could discuss that.
I understand there was some back and forth between Ms Y and Lloyds, with further 
complaints being raised. But as our Investigator explained, those other complaints dont form 
part of this referral. This referral just deals with the original complaint that was made to our 
service in July 2022; that is the increase in Ms Ys interest rate. 
Our Investigator set up a new complaint for Ms Y for the other issues, so if Ms Y wants us to 
look into those then she should contact our Investigator to get that progressed.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the BoEBR had increased which had 
led to increases in the SVR, and as it is a variable rate it will change in that way. She said if 
Ms Y wanted to avoid further rate changes she would need to apply for a new interest rate 
product, and that Lloyds had put forward a way she might be able to do that without needing 
all parties to sign to agree.
Ms Y didnt agree, but her responses mainly related to the parts of the complaint were not 
dealing with under this referral, they related to the new complaint our Investigator had set up. 
Ms Y said her complaint was never about the interest rate going up generally, just about one 
increase Lloyds had made that wasnt anything to do with the BoEBR, and also about how 
Lloyds had treated her.
Our Investigator reminded Ms Y the complaint about how Lloyds had treated her would be 
dealt with separately and this referral just related to the interest rate issue. And she 
confirmed there hadnt been any recent increases that werent anything to do with the 
BoEBR.
Ms Y asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, this decision is only relating to the complaint Ms Y made in her complaint form 
she submitted to this service in July 2022, the content of which I quoted earlier in this 
decision. We have another complaint set up for the other issues and Ms Y needs to contact 
our Investigator directly about that.
Ms Y has said My grievance initially was about the rise in the interest rate of 0.25% that 
Lloyds added last year which was not a rise in the interest rate bound by the Bank of 
England.
The letter Ms Y sent to us with her original complaint referral was from July 2022 and that 
said Lloyds was increasing the interest rate on her mortgage by 0.25% from 1 August 2022. 
It said that change was in addition to the increase of 0.25% it applied from 1 June.
I can see why that may have led Ms Y to believe it was an additional increase, rather than a 
rise relating to the BoEBR, but that isnt the case.
The 0.25% increase Lloyds applied from 1 June related to the BoEBR increase on 5 May 
2022, and the letter increasing it by another 0.25% from 1 August related to a further BoEBR 
increase on 16 June.Date BoEBR Ms Ys rate Percentage change
16 December 2021
1 February 20220.25%
2.25%0.15%
3 February 2022
1 March 20220.50%
2.50%0.25%
17 March 2022
1 May 20220.75%
2.75%0.25%
5 May 2022
1 June 20221.00%
3.00%0.25%
16 June 2022
1 August 20221.25%
3.25%0.25%
From the table above it can be seen that Ms Ys rate has moved in line with the BoEBR, with 
each change to her interest rate happening a month or so after the BoEBR changed. There 
wasnt an additional increase (outside of the BoEBR increases) in 2022 as Ms Y believes.
Ms Ys mortgage is on the SVR, which means the rate will vary. BoEBR is one of the factors 
that is taken into account when Lloyds varies the rate and having considered everything I 
cant say Lloyds has acted inappropriately in increasing Ms Ys interest rate in 2022 as it 
increased it in line with BoEBR changes.
In its response to the complaint Lloyds explained that Ms Y may be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product and said she would need to speak to a mortgage adviser. I understand 
there may have been issues arising from that, but those form part of the other complaint. 
Theyre not something I can consider here.
In summary, Lloyds didnt act unreasonably when it increased Ms Ys interest rate in 2022, 
and I consider its offer to consider what options may be available to Ms Y was fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y, Mrs R and 
Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman