DRN-2671539
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to him when it shouldnt have.
What happened
Mr M has complained about irresponsible lending. This complaint relates to seven loans 
taken out between 2014 and 2018.
Mr M says Barclays frequently offered him loans through advertisements on his mobile 
banking application (app). Mr M says the loans were too easy to apply for and, given that he 
had recently lost his job because of the Covid-19 pandemic, he was now having difficulty 
making repayments. So, he complained to Barclays and said it had lent to him irresponsibly.
Barclays reviewed matters. In summary, it said Mr Ms financial situation would have been 
considered at the time of the applications, and thought it had followed the correct processes 
throughout. So, it didnt agree it had lent to Mr M irresponsibly. Mr M disagreed and brought 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think there was anything to suggest that 
the loans were unaffordable at the time they were taken out. She acknowledged Mr Ms 
concerns about being offered loans on his mobile banking app but thought that the decision 
to apply for borrowing each time was ultimately Mr Ms. 
Barclays didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr M did. In summary, he mostly 
repeated his earlier points. Mr M also pointed out that his credit rating was fair, so he 
thought Barclays made irresponsible decisions when lending to him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
In short, lenders must ensure that any credit that is approved is affordable and sustainable 
for the borrower. Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Its been a considerable amount of time since some of the loans were taken out. So, the 
information available for me to review is limited, which isnt unusual given the time that has 
now passed. So, Ive based my decision on the information thats available to me. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded the loans were unaffordable for Mr M. Ill explain why. 
The first loan Mr M took out was for a relatively small amount. Mr M repaid this in full and on 
time. In doing so, Im satisfied he could afford the repayments and that this good conduct 
demonstrated to Barclays that he was creditworthy. Having reviewed the remaining loans 
Mr M took out, this theme continued throughout. Mr M made repayments to each loan in line 
with the loan agreements, sometimes repaying these early. And, from the information 
available to me, I cant see that Mr M was relying on other forms of credit from elsewhere to 
maintain his monthly payments on the loans. Therefore, Im satisfied the loans were 
affordable for Mr M and that his loan history would have further demonstrated that he was a 
creditworthy customer, and this was something Barclays recognised when it agreed to 
further lending. 
Whilst five of the loans Mr M took out were for relatively small amounts up to £4,300, Ive 
considered that two were larger by comparison  for £11,600 and later £15,500. Having 
reviewed matters, Im satisfied that Barclays wasnt wrong to approve these either. I say this 
because by the time Mr M had applied for the first of these loans, he already had an existing 
relationship with Barclays where he had managed his accounts well. And, he had repaid two 
smaller loans already, and early. Further, he made the contractual repayments in full and on 
time, so even if I were to think Barclays ought to have asked more questions before 
accepting Mr Ms application, Im not persuaded he couldnt afford the repayments. 
When Mr M applied for the second of the larger loans, it was used to consolidate existing 
borrowing with Barclays as well as provide him with some new credit. So, when considering 
the proportion of the loan used for consolidation, this loan was effectively only around £5,000 
over and above Mr Ms existing commitments. So, in light of this, and the other 
considerations above  including Mr Ms excellent management of his previous borrowing 
with Barclays, and that Mr M had paid his contractual repayments in full and on time until a 
change of circumstances brought about by Covid19, an unprecedented event, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays was wrong to approve this loan either.
As I understand it, Mr M feels that these loans were regularly advertised to him and he found 
it difficult to refuse them. I appreciate that Mr M may have found the advertisements on his 
mobile banking app frustrating. However, this in itself doesnt mean that the loans were mis-
sold to him. Ultimately, Mr M decided to accept these loans and proceed with the online 
application processes himself. Mr M has also complained that he was offered over £30,000 
on his mobile banking app and was concerned that he would never be able to pay this back. 
However, by Mr Ms own admission, he never went ahead with the application process for 
this loan. So, I dont agree that he has been treated unfairly here. 
Mr M has told this service he is in now in financial difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. I was sorry to hear about this change in circumstances and the situation Mr M 
now finds himself in. If Mr M is having difficulty making repayments on his loan, I would 
encourage him to make contact with Barclays as it has a responsibility to support him during 
periods of financial difficulties.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on the matter, Im not persuaded that 
these loans were lent to him irresponsibly. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman