DRN-3981720
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the refund she received when she cancelled her car policy and was 
unhappy with the customer service she received from her insurance broker, Carole Nash 
Insurance Consultants Ltd (Carole Nash).
What happened
Mrs R had a car insurance policy that had been arranged by her broker Carole Nash. Part 
way through her insurance term she moved house, so she rang Carole Nash to ask it to 
change the address on her policy to that of the new address.
When Carole Nash tried to update the policy for the new address it wasnt able to. Mrs R 
was told not to worry, and someone would call her back. No one called her back so she 
chased Carole Nash and she was informed that her underwriter wouldnt be able to provide 
cover at the new address, so she was told her policy needed to be cancelled.
When the policy was cancelled, Mrs R received very little money back after the cost of the 
administration fee and cancellation fee were applied. She was also not eligible for a refund 
on her legal fees. Compounding this when Mrs R arranged cover with a new insurer her 
premiums increased significantly.
Carole Nash said it acted in line with its terms and conditions, but it offered £35 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by not calling her back. Her insurer 
also waived part of the cancellation fee. Mrs R wants more compensation for the poor 
handling of the issue and wants 50% of her premium refunded.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. As the insurer confirmed it wouldnt 
cover Mrs R at the new address, he thought Carole Nash were correct in advising Mrs R to 
cancel the policy. He thought the refund Mrs R was provided was correct after the stoppage 
of the fees outlined in the terms and conditions. He also thought the compensation offered 
was fair. Mrs R disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify this complaint has been brought against Carole Nash who acted as broker in the 
sale and administration of the policy. Therefore, under this complaint I wont be able to 
consider whether I think the insurer was fair not to provide cover at the new address or 
whether the terms and conditions provided by the insurer were fair in relation to the 
cancellation fees. I can only consider Carole Nashs role as broker.
I have reviewed the details of this complaint and Im going to disappoint Mrs R as I wont be 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered that Carole Nash informed Mrs R that she needed to cancel her 
policy. As she was moving house and her insurer wouldnt cover her at her new address, her 
current policy was effectively redundant as Mrs R wouldnt have been able to make a claim 
under it. In cancelling the policy, Mrs R was still able to recover some money from her policy. 
So, I think this advice was reasonable.
In cancelling the policy, Mrs R only received a small amount of money back from the 
premium she paid upfront at the start of the year. So, I have reviewed whether Carole Nash 
administered the cancellation correctly. I think it has. Having reviewed the calculation of the 
refund it shared with Mrs R in its final response, it has correctly refunded Mrs R after pro-
rating the annual costs, then deducting non-refundable legal fees and the insurers 
cancellation fee which is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy.
Carole Nash also deducted its own administration fee. I have checked the documentation 
Mrs R agreed to when she took out the policy. I can see Carole Nash set out that it would 
charge £40 if the policy is cancelled after 14 days. As Carole Nash has acted in line with its 
own terms and conditions, I dont think it has done anything wrong. The administration fee 
isnt excessive  its like what other brokers in the industry charge for their time and costs 
when administering the cancellation of a policy.
I can see Carole Nash acknowledged it couldve handled the cancellation better as it didnt 
ring Mrs R back. However, it has paid her £35 compensation for this which I think is 
reasonable. As Mrs Rs previous insurer wouldnt cover the car at the new address, Mrs R 
wouldve always needed to find insurance elsewhere. So, I think the distress caused by the 
broker is minimal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Carole Nash Insurance 
Consultants Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman