DRN-1596077
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs A says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
In 1999 Mrs A applied for a NatWest credit card. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy. 
The policy covered Mrs A against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim it would have paid a monthly benefit of 
10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale took place over 20 years ago. Where there is limited information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence 
available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Mrs A has told us she cant recall how the credit card and PPI was sold to her. NatWest has 
shown us a copy of the application form. It looks like the type of form that could have been 
completed by Mrs A and posted to NatWest in which case it is unlikely NatWest would have 
given Mrs A advice. But it is possible it was completed at a branch and that NatWest advised 
Mrs A to take out the policy. To be fair to Mrs A, I have assumed NatWest gave her advice, 
which means NatWest had to make sure the policy was right for her.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I can see the application form contains a section about PPI. I note the application form has a 
section about PPI. The applicant needed to sign in this section to request that PPI was 
added to the account. And I can see that Mrs A has signed in this section.
NatWest has also shown us copies of Mrs As credit card statements and I can see the PPI 
premiums appeared on the monthly statements until at least 2009. If Mrs A had not agreed 
to the PPI, or didnt want it, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that she did so.
Overall, I think it is likely NatWest made it clear that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this after 
so many years.NatWest recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was, I say this 
for the following reasons:
Mrs A wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, 
she wasnt in unusual employment circumstances, and didnt have any medical conditions 
that would not have been covered. So, Mrs A would have been able to make a claim on the 
policy if shed needed to.
Mrs A has told us shed receive full sick pay from her employer for up to six months, followed 
by up to six months at half pay. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mrs A couldnt work. And the benefit would be paid in addition to any sick pay. So I 
still think Mrs A would find the policy useful if she became unwell, particularly if she was 
unable to work for a lengthy period.
The PPI would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mrs A had lost her job.
Mrs A has said her husband could have helped to pay the credit card if she couldnt work. 
But the PPI would mean Mrs As credit card payments would be met without her needing to 
ask for family help.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs A off 
taking out the cover.
In summary, I think Mrs A was most likely made aware the policy was optional and she 
chose to add it to her account. I think the policy was right for her. And even if NatWest gave 
her all the clear information it should have, I think Mrs A would still have bought the policy.
Which means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But NatWest has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mrs A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has offered paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to 
pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman