DRN-2679442
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim she made under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In late 2019, Mrs Ls dog, M was injured when he was hit by a car after running out of the 
house and into a road. 
Mrs L made a claim for treatment costs under her pet insurance policy. But Red Sands 
declined the claim, saying that Mrs L hadnt met one of the policy conditions. It said as M 
was able to escape from the property it would appear that all reasonable measures had not 
been taken to ensure that the property was secure. Mrs L complained to Red Sands, but it 
stood by its decision.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ls concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. Mrs L disagreed, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2021 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mrs Ls complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Ls complaint Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
 
Mrs Ls pet insurance policy provides cover for vet fees for all reasonable costs for 
treatment of your pet by a vet due to accident, illness or disease up to the maximum limit as 
specified in your schedule. The policy schedule shows an annual condition limit of £2,000.
 
Accident is defined as a sudden, unforeseen, and unintended event causing injury to your 
pet.
From what Ive seen and been told, M ran out of the house and into the road when Mrs L 
opened the front door. This would appear to be a sudden and unintended event. And I think 
it was also unforeseen as Mrs L says this was out of character for M. So, Im satisfied that 
what happened meets Red Sands definition of accident and is covered under the terms of 
Mrs Ls policy.
Red Sands has relied on the following policy condition to decline Mrs Ls claim:
You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any area in which 
a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured and all 
reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape. When loading your pet into or out of your 
vehicle, you must ensure that the area is either secure or your pet is on a lead.
To persuade me that Mrs L didnt take reasonable care, Red Sands would need to show that 
she recognised the risk of M escaping and either took no measures to prevent the risk or 
took measures she knew to be inadequate. 
I appreciate Mrs Ls gate was left open, but M wasnt kept in the area outside when he ran 
out into the road. M was inside the house and from what Ive been told, the area was 
secured. M wouldnt have been able to get out if Mrs L hadnt opened the door to enter her 
house. 
Mrs L says M ran straight past her and bolted down the driveway and across the road in a 
manner very out of character. So, I dont think Mrs L had any reason to expect M to try to 
get out when the door was opened. She didnt recognise there was a risk of M escaping 
because it was out of character and had never happened before. 
Mrs L says the incident happened on Remembrance Sunday. Traffic had been diverted to 
the road at the end of her driveway and it was also busy with pedestrians. She thinks 
something caught Ms eye, leading him to bolt to the road. While this might explain Ms 
actions, I dont think it means that Mrs L should have foreseen that M would try to escape or 
that she didnt take reasonable steps to prevent him from doing so.
The purpose of this type of insurance policy is to protect against accidents, subject to the 
policy terms. I think this was an accident that couldnt have been foreseen and it wasnt due 
to Mrs L failing to take reasonable care. It follows that I dont think Red Sands has fairly 
declined the claim.
I set out what I intended to direct Red Sands to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to respond with any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision.
Responses
Red Sands acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
comments. Mrs L said she had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party as provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things rightRed Sands should:
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
If Mrs L has already paid the vets invoice, then 8% simple interest* should be added 
to any settlement from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement.
*If Red Sands considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due 
to Mrs L, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman