DRN-3605723
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) unfairly declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr S had an income protection insurance policy with Phoenix on which he made a claim in 
October 2021.
Phoenix declined the claim as it said Mr S didnt meet the policy terms.
Unhappy, Mr S complained to Phoenix but it maintained its stance. And so Mr S referred his 
complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong 
as Mr S hadnt demonstrated that he was unable to do his job.
Mr S disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
He was incapable of doing his job, which is why he was made redundant.
He made the decision to leave the job as he was so sick that he couldnt complete 
the role and needed to recover. He agreed a settlement agreement which allowed 
him to do that.
He was not conducting his role and was doing a different, administrative role  so he 
was sick whilst he was employed.
Although Mr S was employed, he was incapacitated from May 2021 and unable to 
perform the main duties of his role. His GP offered to sign him off in May 2021 but Mr 
S continued to work and then was then signed off from 1 August 2021.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I should make it clear that I have carefully considered all of Mr S comments in detail 
but my decision will only focus on what I consider to be key to my decision. 
The policy provides a benefit if Mr S is incapacitated. 
Incapacity is defined as follows:
the insured is totally unable by reason of illness or injury to follow his own 
occupation...
The deferred period is 26 weeks, so Mr S has to be incapacitated for 26 weeks before 
payment of benefit becomes due.
The policy documents also confirm no benefit shall be paid unless the insured is engaged in 
gainful employment on the date of onset of incapacity.
So Mr S has to show that he was unable to work in his occupation due to his illness for the 
length of the deferred period, to be eligible for benefit. 
Mr S became unemployed due to redundancy in August 2021. He says he decided to agree 
a settlement agreement although he was unable to continue working in his role. Mr S said he 
was incapacitated from May 2021, whilst he was employed.
The onus is on Mr S has to prove his claim, through medical evidence, to show that he was 
incapacitated. This means he needs to demonstrate that he was totally unable to follow his 
occupation. 
But the evidence shows that Mr S continued to work until he was made redundant and his 
employment ended. There is insufficient evidence to show that Mr S was incapacitated whilst 
he was at work. The evidence shows Mr S was made redundant due to a cost saving 
exercise by his employer. Although I appreciate what Mr S has said about his inability to do 
his job, there is no persuasive evidence of this. For that reason, Mr S doesnt meet the 
definition of incapacity.
Phoenix was entitled to rely on the information which showed that Mr S became redundant 
and then unemployed. It therefore declined his claim which wasnt unreasonable, based on 
the information available to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman