DRN-2957267
The complaint
Miss O complains Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) are responsible for her 
withdrawing her employment tribunal claim in error. She would like them to pay her the value 
of her claim.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of some of the key events here.
In 2019 Miss O sought to use her legal expenses insurance (which is provided by Fairmead) 
to assist her in a dispute with her former employer in an employment tribunal. Miss O 
already had her own solicitor who she wanted to continue to use. 
Fairmead agreed certain costs for Miss Os solicitor (and counsel) with a view to confirming 
the requirements of the policy (such as the intended legal action having reasonable 
prospects of success) were met. 
In May 2020, the former employers solicitor wrote to Miss O and pointed out that they may 
wish to pursue her for their costs which could be up to £20,000. But they said they would 
agree to not pursue Miss O in return for her withdrawing her legal claim.
Further to this Miss O contacted the tribunal and withdrew her claim. Miss O later said that it 
hadnt been her intention to withdraw every aspect of her claim. But in a letter dated 25 June 
2020 the tribunal said The terms of the withdrawal were unequivocal and not open to any 
other reasonable interpretation than that it had been at the Claimants intention to 
discontinue the claim in its entirety. 
Miss O wanted to appeal to the tribunal to still have an aspect she wished to pursue 
considered. In July 2020 Fairmead withdrew any further cover from the claim. In summary 
they said Miss O accepting the offer to withdraw her claim (without their agreement or 
consultation) in return for not being pursued for costs had prejudiced their position. But for 
Miss Os withdrawal, they wouldnt have to incur costs in considering an appeal. 
Miss O complained. She believes that Fairmeads handling of the matter meant that she 
didnt have cover in place at the relevant time. This meant that she panicked and withdrew 
her claim in error. Something she says she wouldnt have done if she had funded 
representation in place at the time. 
Fairmead believed theyd treated Miss O fairly by funding several aspects of her claim 
despite the policy terms not yet being met. They disagreed they were responsible for Miss O 
withdrawing her claim. The complaint was referred to our service and one of our 
investigators didnt recommend that it should be upheld. Miss O still disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether it was intentional or otherwise, Im satisfied that Miss O withdrew her claim in the 
tribunal. The evidence from the tribunal itself supports this. And its likely that this was a 
result of the email she received from her former employers solicitor which set out she 
wouldnt be pursued for costs if she withdrew it. Miss Os policy says: You must not accept 
any offers without first obtaining the administrators consent. 
Ive not been presented with evidence to support that Miss O discussed this with Fairmead 
(or their administrators) to obtain their consent prior to effectively accepting that offer by 
withdrawing her claim. I also dont think that is was unreasonable or unfair for Fairmead to 
use the above policy term to then decline to meet any further costs. Simply put, if Miss O 
hadnt withdrawn her claim, there would have been no need for Fairmead to consider costs 
in relation to appealing the withdrawal. I agree that Miss O prejudiced Fairmeads position 
and I consider their decision fair. This is further supported by the barrister with knowledge of 
the case saying I am not sure it would be proportionate to appeal 
Im also not persuaded that Fairmead can reasonably be held responsible for Miss O 
withdrawing her claims as she alleges. Whilst their communication with her solicitor wasnt 
always perfect, they continued to engage and frequently agreed to further costs despite not 
yet being in possession of confirmation that Miss Os claim met the requirements of the 
policy  particularly in relation to prospects and proportionality. I dont think the fact that 
cover was yet to be agreed at the relevant time is due to failings by Fairmead. At that time 
Miss O had already instructed her own solicitor. And Im not persuaded she couldnt have 
sought advice prior to withdrawing the claim, or that she couldnt have discussed the 
implications of doing so with Fairmead. 
Miss O has indicated that she would like to be paid the value of her claim by Fairmead to 
resolve this complaint. As I dont think Fairmead are responsible for the claim not 
proceeding, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell them to do this. Im aware 
there is a further policy term which allows Fairmead to decide to pay the value of a claim 
instead of providing cover for legal costs. But they are under no obligation to do so and I 
dont think them not making such an offer (particularly when theyve treated Miss O fairly 
with regard to agreeing costs as described above) is unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman