DRN-3471076
The complaint
Ds complaint is about a claim it made on its HDI Global SE (HDI) hotel and guesthouse 
insurance policy. 
Mr R, on behalf of D is unhappy with the way in which the claim has been handled by HDI.
What happened
D made a claim on its HDI hotel and guesthouse insurance policy for an escape of water that 
caused damage to its business premises.
HDI assessed the claim. Based on the information they had they concluded that D was 
closed for trading between 8 June and 9 November 2020. They proposed to settle Ds claim 
but then discovered that D appeared to be trading.
In order to clarify things, HDI arranged an interview with Mr R. The call took place in January 
2021. By this time HDI had already made a number of payments on account to D to assist it 
in making repairs. During the interview HDI identified various inconsistencies in Mr Rs 
account of when D had been open and to what extent it had traded. Notwithstanding this it 
offered to settle the balance of Ds claim.
A summary of the complaint that D brought to this Service in March 2021 is as follows:
The claim for Ds loss of earnings was handled badly and the claim hadnt been 
settled.
Mr R has a health condition that affects his memory. He told HDI about this before 
his interview with them in January 2021. He feels the interview technique adopted by 
HDI in light of that was inappropriate and unprofessional.
HDI didnt pick up on the fact that Mr R had told them he planned to reopen D for 
trading in July 2020. If they had, the claim might have been settled more promptly.
The delays in the claim being paid have had an adverse effect on D and caused 
undue stress and ill health to Mr R.
In April 2021 HDI issued a final response letter addressing the issues D was complaining of. 
At that point the claim was being considered. Since then matters have progressed. The 
claim has now been assessed and HDI have offered a final amount in settlement. Mr R isnt 
happy with the sum that have been offered in respect of Ds loss of earnings claim. In June 
2021 HDI addressed some of Mr Rs additional concerns about this. It also invited him to 
provide further documentary evidence if he felt D was entitled to more in settlement.
Our investigator considered Ds complaints but didnt uphold them. She thought HDI acted 
reasonably in assessing Ds claims given the discrepancies in the information HDI had 
received and that it was entitled to assess the claim in the way that it had. 
The investigator also concluded that whilst the time it took HDI to assess and offer to settle 
the claim might have been difficult for Mr R, this wasnt something we could consider as this 
is Ds complaint and its not possible for D to suffer distress as a business. She directed Mr 
R to contact HDI directly if he thought the claim dates theyd applied were wrong as HDI had 
offered to review things if Mr R was able to provide evidence of the losses he was claiming 
for.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ds complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
The complaint that was brought to us has, to some extent, been resolved in that the claim 
has now been assessed in full and an offer has been made. Whilst Mr R remains unhappy 
about the way in which the claim was handled, his main concern relates to the way in which 
settlement has been calculated by HDI. I can see that HDI have addressed many of Mr Rs 
concerns about the settlement amount. In light of this and given the information thats been 
made available to me by both parties, Ive addressed both the original complaint and 
settlement amount itself as far as I can in this decision. Where I havent heard from both 
parties on the issues raised, Ive made clear that I cant consider the issue. 
Its true that in this case it took a considerable period of time for Ds claim to be resolved. 
The water escape happened in June 2020 and the final offer to settle the balance of the 
claim by HDI was made in April 2021. By this time HDI had made various payments on 
account totalling about £43,000 for the damage to Ds premises. The balance offered in 
settlement of the remainder of the claim amounted to around £9,200. That said HDI pointed 
out that if Mr R was able to provide documentary evidence supporting that D's claim for loss 
of income came to any more than this, then it was happy to review things. 
I know Mr R feels strongly that HDI were wrong to take so long to assess things after they 
discovered D was still trading but I dont think HDI acted unreasonably. I accept that HDI 
might have overlooked an email from Mr R suggesting that D intended to start trading, but 
Mr R didnt categorically tell HDI when it had reopened and how long for. In addition, I dont 
think the process of assessing Ds loss of income would have necessarily been much shorter 
if HDI knew that D was about to start trading again. Thats because HDI needed evidence to 
support the correct periods D was claiming loss of income for as well as the corresponding 
accounts. I can see from the correspondence provided by both parties that HDI asked Mr R 
for documentary evidence to support the loss of income claim on several occasions. Some 
of those answers werent immediately forthcoming and Im not persuaded that everything 
they asked for was provided. And given answers to the questions HDI asked Mr R werent 
entirely consistent, it took some time to iron out when D was trading and to what extent. 
Some of HDIs questions about this extended to asking for details of Ds employees so that 
they could clarify when those employees were working or indeed whether theyd been 
furloughed. I note Mr R didnt supply those details at all. Despite this HDI made an offer to 
settle the claim which I think was more than reasonable in the circumstances. That offer of 
settlement is intended to compensate D for periods during which it wasnt able to open due 
to the escape of water, which is what D is insured for. Because of this, I cant say that the 
delay in assessing the claim has adversely impacted on D. Mr R feels the interview with HDI was unprofessional and didnt take account of his health 
condition. I appreciate that Mr Rs condition would have meant he found it difficult to 
immediately recall the dates and times of trade and to what extent D was trading. And I know 
that he felt HDI didnt make reasonable adjustments for this. HDI have said they took 
account of Mr Rs health condition when conducting their interview but they needed to clarify 
the points put to Mr R. I dont have a recording of the interview itself so I cant tell exactly 
what was said. I have however seen a report outlining how Mr R answered the questions put 
to him. HDI have said they took into account that Mr R might not have been able to recall 
everything when asked which is why they offered to settle the claim rather than decline it. 
They also gave him the opportunity to provide documentary evidence at a later date to 
support the position hed taken. I think that was the right thing to do in the circumstances. Its 
important to note that whilst Mr R was representing D, I cant consider any complaints about 
distress by Mr R because this is Ds complaint and D as a business isnt capable of suffering 
distress. And we wouldnt award anything to compensate Mr R for his time in dealing with 
D's insurance claim as that would form part of the normal course of a business 
administration. 
Mr R says the indemnity period HDI has applied isnt correct and that the claim for loss of 
income should be paid up until the repairs were completed. That would be true if the closure 
of the hotel was wholly due to the escape of water. I know that Mr R says the hotel wouldnt 
have had to close at all (and certainly not on the two occasions it did) if HDI had paid the 
escape of water claim because he was still able to operate a takeaway business during the 
pandemic and provide accommodation to essential workers. HDI havent said theyre not 
prepared to consider the period up to the point final payment for repairs had been made. 
From what Ive seen Mr R hasnt provided HDI with any information about what D is claiming 
for in respect of this period with corresponding evidence on what loss of income D might 
have experienced at this point. As HDI has said, if Mr R is able to do this, it has agreed to 
reconsider the claim. I think this is reasonable. Mr R should note however that if he remains 
unhappy with the outcome of any further discussions about settlement with HDI, hell need to 
raise a new complaint with them about this.
The settlement amount thats currently been put to D takes the impact of Covid-19 into 
consideration. Mr R is unhappy about this because he feels it unnecessarily reduces the 
settlement value. I think that despite Ds ability to operate a takeaway service and offer 
rooms to key workers, its expected there would be a downward trend in trade when 
compared to previous years of stable trade. I dont know whether HDI did take the benefit of 
government support into account when paying out the loss of income claim as I dont have 
any details of this and its not something that HDI have specifically addressed so I havent 
considered it here. I appreciate that Covid-19 wasnt in contemplation when the policy was 
taken out and that its not referred to in the policy. But I dont think that matters. The policy 
terms say the insurer can take into account trends or other circumstances which affect the 
business either before or after the damage. So I think HDI was entitled to consider the 
impact of Covid-19 when considering Ds loss of income claim. Again, if Mr R thinks he has 
evidence to support that Ds income would have been significantly more- say by providing 
accounts for his other hotels that offered the same services- then thats something Id expect 
HDI to revisit. And if Mr R remains unhappy about any deductions applied in respect of 
government support then he can raise that directly with HDI to address. If hes still 
dissatisfied he can bring a new complaint to us about this as well as any new issues about 
the settlement amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ds complaint against HDI Global SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman