DRN-2970051
The complaint
Ms S complains about the poor repairs and service she experienced, following a claim under 
her home emergency policy with AWP P&C SA (AWP).
  
What happened
  Ms S noticed a leak in her home and contacted AWP. It sent an engineer who carried out a 
temporary repair. Ms S was told that the repair would last around four to five months. Ms S 
said that the engineer didnt wear any personal protection equipment (PPE), given the 
government advice at that time. 
Soon afterwards, Ms S noticed another leak in the same area and again contacted AWP. It 
sent another engineer. Ms S said that the engineer was rude, didnt carry out a repair and 
left within five minutes. 
Ms S believed that the temporary repair wasnt correctly done and if it had been, she 
wouldve had time to carry out a permanent repair. Ms S thought that the first engineer 
caused further damage to her roof, which meant that she had to carry out the permanent 
repair with an independent engineer and paid £380, which she felt AWP ought to reimburse. 
So, Ms S complained to AWP.
In its final response, AWP acknowledged the inconvenience Ms S experienced. It said that 
the issues she experienced had been addressed to the relevant persons and said that it 
strived to provide good customer service, which it didnt do on this occasion. 
Ms S wasnt happy with this outcome especially as there was no offer of compensation for 
the poor customer service she experienced. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators investigated her complaint. During the investigation process, he 
contacted AWP for its evidence and didnt receive a response. So considered the complaint 
on the limited evidence he had. 
He upheld her complaint as his view was that the temporary repairs shouldve lasted longer 
than it did. It was inappropriate for the engineer not to wear PPE and he accepted that the 
second engineer was rude. But as there was no evidence that the engineer caused further 
damage to Ms S roof he couldnt uphold that part of Ms S complaint. He recommended that 
AWP pay £200 for the inconvenience caused, as it had acknowledged there were some poor 
customer service issues. 
Ms S accepted our investigators view. But as AWP failed to respond, it has been sent to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: 
AWP was asked to provide its response to our investigators view and any further 
evidence, but no response has been received. Ms S has provided a consistent 
account of the events that happened. In this case, despite the lack of response from 
AWP, I find I can decide on this complaint and I think it fair that Ms S has a resolution 
to the issues she raised, despite the lack of engagement from AWP.
AWP appear to have accepted that its customer service fell well below the standard 
that it wouldve liked. Although, having reviewed the final response, this appears to 
provide little detail on the specific areas of customer service that AWP was 
unsuccessful in. 
However, Im satisfied that the temporary repair ought to have lasted a lot longer than 
it did. That it was unacceptable for the first engineer not to have worn PPE. And I 
accept that the second engineer was unprofessional. 
Ms S hasnt provided any expert evidence to show that the first engineer caused 
further damage to her roof that led to her having the permanent repair. So, I dont 
think its reasonable for AWP to reimburse the £380 Ms S paid for the repair, as she 
wouldve had to have paid this.
Putting things right
However, given the poor level of service that Ms S experienced, I think AWP ought to put 
matters right by paying compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint. 
To put matters right, AWP P&C SA ought to pay £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman