DRN-4295019
The complaint
C, a limited company complains that Stripe Payments UK Limited allowed several large card 
payments to be processed and then charged back from Cs account.
C wants Stripe to refund the chargebacks and the associated fees.
Cs complaint is brought by a director of C, Mr V. 
What happened
Stripe is a payment service provider and offer customers the ability to accept payments for 
goods and services.
C holds an account with Stripe and in July 2021, five customer payments were disputed as 
fraudulent because the cardholders didnt recognise the payments. Each of the chargebacks 
were decided in favour of the banks customers.
C is unhappy that Stripe allowed it to charge credit card payments without address 
verification turned on as a default setting, so it wants Stripe to refund the chargebacks as 
well as the fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Cs complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Stripe carried out the relevant checks for each transaction. She thought Stripe attempted to 
defend the chargebacks after C provided evidence. 
Our investigator explained that the customers bank, rather than Stripe, decides whether the 
chargeback should be successful or not. She thought that Stripes terms and conditions 
meant it was fair to charge fees associated with the chargebacks. Overall, our investigator 
didnt think Stripe made a mistake so didnt ask it to take any action in response to Cs 
complaint. 
C says it wants an ombudsman to decide its complaint and doesnt think its appropriate for 
Stripe to charge fees for the refunded transactions.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties have and Ive 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean that Ive not considered everything the parties have given to us.
As our investigator explained, Stripe as payment processor doesnt hold the role of 
defending a chargeback  the bank is responsible for this. Instead, Stripes role is to provide 
evidence from its customer  in this case C  so that it can put forward a defence to the 
chargeback. Im satisfied that Stripe did this. 
In Cs case, it appears that the genuine cardholder for each transaction didnt authorise the 
payment to C. Without evidence that the genuine cardholders had authorised the payments, 
the banks involved could not have successfully defended the chargebacks. 
The evidence that Stripe has provided shows that it carried out successful checks against 
the CVC, card number and expiration date for each transaction. C had not turned on the 
postal code check, so this didnt form part of Stripes checks. Although C is unhappy that the 
postal code check wasnt on by default, I dont think this was because of something that 
Stripe did wrong. 
Stripes website says that the rule blocking payments which fail the postal code check might 
not be enabled by default so the customer should enable it using the Stripe dashboard. In 
Cs case, Stripe has provided evidence that shows C had not enabled the rule at the time the 
disputed payments were made. So, I cant find that Stripe was at fault for not blocking the 
payments. I should also say that even if the rule had been enabled - if the card issuer 
doesnt support verification of a customers postal code  the rule would not have prevented 
the payments going through.
Stripes website also explains that payments can be still successful even if the CVC or 
address check fail because the card issuer can still approve a payment if the card issuer 
considers it to be legitimate. 
All of this means that I dont find it fair to find Stripe responsible for the fraudulent 
transactions being processed. So, I dont require Stripe to refund the chargebacks to C.
The terms of Cs account with Stripe set out what fees will apply, including to any disputed 
payments. As I dont consider Stripe made a mistake when processing the transactions, it 
follows that I dont require it to write off any charges which have been properly applied to Cs 
account. 
Im satisfied that once C raised concerns over two of the charges in July 2021, Stripe tried to 
help. Stripe told C that the pattern of the two charges suggested that the transactions may 
be fraudulent and recommended that C refund the transactions selecting fraud as the reason 
for the refund. Stripe also explained that C should create payments through checkout rather 
than the dashboard. 
Overall, I consider Stripe responded reasonably to Cs concerns, so I dont require it to take 
further action in response to Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman