DRN-3932410
The complaint
Ms J and Mr W complain about the settlement offered to them from Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) following a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms J and Mr W noticed an infestation in their kitchen. To find out where the infestation was 
coming from, they removed some of the kitchen units and found that there was a leak. 
They contacted RSA who sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor told Ms J 
and Mr W that they didnt have trace and access cover, which would mean that the claim 
might not be covered. But Ms J and Mr W found that this was the incorrect information, as 
the policy did allow for trace and access. 
RSA was sent a report from the surveyor, but the report was not complete as there was no 
scope of works. Ultimately, RSA sent another surveyor to assess the damage. The new 
surveyor wrote another report and provided a settlement figure of £4,842.78. RSA said that 
the reason for the settlement amount, was because Ms J and Mr W had already removed 
the affected units and it was prevented from assessing the loss. 
Ms J and Mr W complained to RSA as they had obtained a quote for £13,499 for the 
reinstatement of the kitchen. In its final response, RSA maintained its position that as Ms J 
and Mr W had started the works without RSAs prior approval or inspection, they had 
prejudiced their position in terms of the claim. This meant that RSA were unable to validate 
the claim and establish liability. But RSA increased the settlement figure to £7,960 (minus 
£500 excess) plus VAT (£1000  to be paid after all the works were completed and a VAT 
invoice was submitted). The settlement figure included a £100 compensation, for some poor 
service issues. 
Ms J and Mr W remained unhappy with the settlement and referred a complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators, considered the complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said that the claim had been made difficult to establish, as the kitchen had been 
removed prior to RSA having had an opportunity to inspect it. He also said that despite there 
being photos of the damage, there was no evidence to say that the damage was caused 
because of the leak and not during the removal process. He concluded that RSA were fair 
and reasonable in its settlement offer and that it recognised the poor service issues which 
was fair.
RSA accepted the view, Ms J and Mr W did not. They said that the entire kitchen was at their 
property for the first surveyor to inspect. They reiterated that they were not aware that they 
had a leak (before removing the units), so they wouldnt have been able to report anything to 
RSA. They asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Ms J and Mr W, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the comments made by both parties, the surveyors reports, the photos 
of the damaged room, as well as the policy terms and conditions. My understanding of Ms J 
and Mr Ws complaint is that RSAs settlement amount is unfair as it didnt put them back 
into the pre-loss position, following the leak at their home.  
Ms J and Mr W had a leak at their home. After they carried out a trace and access, in which 
they removed their base kitchen units, they discovered the source of the leak coming from 
under the washing machine. I note that they initially said that they were not aware that they 
had a leak, as it presented as an infestation. But following the trace and access, they 
contacted RSA to make a claim. 
RSA, as we would expect it to, sent the first surveyor to assess the damage. At this time, Ms 
J and Mr W said that they had placed the base kitchen units elsewhere in their home for the 
RSA surveyor to inspect. They also said that the RSA surveyor advised them to do what 
they wanted to do with the units. And because of this, they ultimately disposed of the units. 
I contacted RSA to ask whether there were any notes from the first surveyors visit. It not 
only sent me the report which included photos taken of the damage to the property but also 
dictated notes made by the first surveyor, whilst he was at the property, in the presence of 
Ms J. 
The photos show there was damage to the floor area (where the washing machine had been 
located). The only other property that was shown as affected was a plinth, which had water 
damage.
RSA also provided several recordings of the dictations taken by the surveyor whilst he was 
at the property. Ive noted that some of the recordings were conducted whilst Ms J was 
present, as she is also heard on some of the recordings. 
The brief summary of the first recording is as follows: the surveyor outlines what he has 
been told by the policyholder as to the date of loss being 7 February 2022, having had an 
infestation in their kitchen. The policyholders decided to take the kitchen out and found that 
there had been a leak. He found damage to a large area of the kitchen floor under the 
washing machine. The plywood was soaked, a large section was rotted, but the joists were 
structurally sound. The surveyor goes on to say that the policyholders hadnt got builders 
quotes. He said that there was no damage to any contents and confirms that the 
policyholder wanted her property back to pre-loss condition. The surveyor then asks the 
policyholder: Is everything Ive said ok, so far? to which she replies: yes, fine.
In the second recording, the surveyor confirms what damage is caused  which is to the floor 
and that the floor has had a dehumidifier on it and will need further drying out. 
In the third recording the surveyor again reiterates that there was an infestation, a leak under 
the washing machine. He also says that the contents damage is to plinths. In the final recording the surveyor says that there was an escape of water, and the claim will 
be accepted. There was no trace and access of the policy, but the policyholder wanted to 
check this. He said that the policyholder didnt require a decision letter and was happy with 
the customer feedback. The policyholder was then asked: is everything Ive said ok, so far? 
to which she replied, yes perfect, thank you very much.
From what Ive read and listened to, Im satisfied that the surveyor attended in order to 
assess the damage that the escape of water caused. He not only recorded his findings but 
also provided photographs of what he saw. Those photographs and recordings were 
consistent in that the damage caused by the leak was to the floor and a kitchen plinth. 
Ms J and Mr W said that the base units had also been damaged as a result of the leak and 
that they were told to do what they wanted to the units by the surveyor. But I wouldve 
expected that had the surveyor seen damage to the units that had been removed, he 
wouldve recorded this, either via the dictated notes or more likely photographs. The only 
damage recorded was to a plinth and the floor. 
Also, Ms J who was present during the inspection, seemingly agreed with the surveyor that 
there was no other damage to the property except the plinth and floor. Consequently, Im 
persuaded that had the surveyor seen any damage to the existing units, its more likely than 
not, that he wouldve noted it. 
Im also persuaded that as Ms J and Mr W had removed the units before RSA had had the 
opportunity to inspect them in situ, they had prejudiced their claim. I say this as RSAs 
obligations under the policy is only to fix the damage directly, caused by the leak alone. I 
note that the policy has the following exclusions: EXCLUSIONS APPLYING TO THE 
WHOLE POLICY Any other costs - Any costs incurred without our approval or permission. I 
think its clear that Ms J and Mr W wouldve needed RSAs approval before 
removing/disposing of any of the units, which wasnt obtained here. 
Ive next considered what RSA actually did, given its obligations under the policy. First, it 
sent two surveyors to assess the damage. Second, a scope of works was produced and the 
first settlement figure of £4,842.78 (including VAT) was offered. RSA said that this was the 
amount that it wouldve cost their suppliers, had their suppliers carried out the repair works.
I understand that RSA also offered a disturbance allowance of £2,260, as Ms J and Mr W 
were without a kitchen. But I note that the disturbance allowance was a discretionary 
payment. And it was made as Ms J and Mr W had removed their kitchen  something that 
RSA hadnt authorised them to do. It was also offered despite there being any cogent 
evidence of actual damage to all the units that had been taken out. 
In addition, RSA made a further payment of £100 for the poor service Ms J and Mr W 
experienced. Such as, the first surveyor incorrectly concluding that they didnt have trace 
and access cover, when the policy did. And the delay in getting the second surveyor to 
attend. 
RSA ultimately increased its offer and a total payment including all allowances of £7,360, 
was made. As well as VAT of around £1,000 (on production of an invoice showing that it had 
been paid and the work completed) was also offered. 
Ms J and Mr W provided RSA with quotes totalling £13,499 for the kitchen. I have reviewed 
the quotations from the contractor that Ms J and Mr W used. Within it, it stated that the quote 
was provided on the basis of re-fitting the existing kitchen, replacing the flooring (which was 
where the leak happened), as well as installing a new worktop. As Ive mentioned, the obligations on RSA was to replace, repair or make a settlement on 
the basis of what the actual damage was. And given that Ms J and Mr Ws own contractor 
provided a quote on the basis of re-installing the existing kitchen, I cant agree that it was 
necessary for the entire kitchen to be replaced. Which ultimately, they chose to do and 
accounted for the total cost of £13,499 as the replacement of the entire kitchen. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think RSA was fair and reasonable in its settlement 
offer that it made. I think that Ms J and Mr W prejudiced their claim by disposing of the units 
before RSA could inspect them. Further, I note that had the units been damaged as Ms J 
and Mr W said, then I wouldnt have expected their own contractor to have provided a quote 
in which he was going to re-fit their existing kitchen units. And I think RSA fairly recognised 
the poor service that Ms J and Mr W experienced. Accordingly, I cant fairly ask RSA to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman