DRN-3307135
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Marsh Finance Ltd (Marsh) irresponsibly granted her a loan she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2014, Mrs C acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase agreement 
with Marsh. Mrs C was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £267.36, with a final 
optional payment of £357.36 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £16,131.60 and Mrs C paid a £100 deposit.
Mrs C says that Marsh didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Marsh didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included verifying Mrs Cs income through payslips and a 
partial review of her bank statements. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Marsh didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs C didnt agree and said that Marsh hadnt completed the checks they were legally 
obliged to do. She explained that Marsh had asked her to blackout much of the information 
on her bank statements and hadnt reviewed all of them. She said the agreement was 
unaffordable for her and she explained shed had to take many payday loans out to keep her 
head above water.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive not seen evidence that Marsh reviewed and verified Mrs Cs expenditure. Without 
knowing what Mrs Cs regular committed expenditure was, Marsh wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. I would therefore 
agree with Mrs C that it therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mrs C would have told Marsh had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Marsh needed to request all bank statements, but in the absence of 
anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained the statements 
from both accounts that have been provided as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements from two joint accounts provided. These statements show 
corroborate that Mrs C was earning about £1500 per month and Mr C about £1,900 prior to 
the application for credit. 
The statements show monthly expenditure at the time was around £2,450. In calculating this 
figure, Ive included food, petrol, insurance, utility payments, rent, council tax and other more 
general expenses. Taking those figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Mrs C. 
And, even if I just take Mrs Cs income into account and distribute the monthly expenditure 
reasonably. Id agree with the investigator that the expenditure Mrs C would likely have been 
accountable for was in the region of £1,100 and the finance agreement would still have been 
affordable for her.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Marsh acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman