DRN-3698690
The complaint
Mr I complains that Capital One Europe plc trading as Capital One (Capital One) unfairly 
placed a block on his credit card.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 and set out the background to this complaint 
as follows
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mr I has a credit card with a £200 credit limit
On 1 September 2021 Mr I contacted Capital One and asked if paying £2,000 onto the credit 
card would cause any issues as this is what hed initiated via a balance transfer from another 
card.
Capital One advised it wouldnt.
On 4 September Mr I attempted to make a transaction for over £2,000 and the payment was 
blocked.
Capital One advised Mr I it was a temporary block for security purposes, and advised him to 
contact its fraud team.
The temporary block was removed on 6 September
Mr I says as a result of the block he was unable to make a payment for the formation of a 
company in Dubai, and lost the opportunity to benefit from a discount. He therefore had to 
pay a higher price as the discount was only available until 5 September.
Capital One say they gave the correct information to address Mr Is question about making a 
payment to his credit card. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt it was unreasonable for Capital One not to 
have considered Mr I was intending the make a purchase when enquiring about making a 
payment to his credit card. And it gave incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading information to 
Mr I. 
Our investigator said Capital One should pay Mr I 50% of the amount of the discount upon 
presentation of independently verifiable evidence of the amount of the discount and 
confirmation of the exchange rate involved.
And I set out my reasoning as:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator.
Its not unusual for a credit card company to carry out a fraud check on a transaction. And 
given the card had a £200 limit I can understand why a temporary block was applied on a 
transaction of 10 times the limit. I note in Mr Is initial message to Capital One on 1 
September 2021 he said he was due a balance transfer into his credit card but 
unfortunately, instead of £200 in, £2000 is coming. Given the way the question was asked 
its reasonable at that point Capital One didnt anticipate a large purchase would be made. 
However, after receiving a response from Capital One Mr I rephrased the question later the 
same day asking if a £2,000 credit will be an issue.
Mr I tells us he called Capital One in addition to the secure messages exchanged and was 
told there would be no issues. Capital One have no record of these calls and Mr I hasnt 
provided any evidence of calls made to Capital One before the temporary block was put in 
place. 
On balance, Im not satisfied Capital One couldve reasonably anticipated a purchase would 
be made by Mr I having enquired about making a payment of £2,000 to his credit card. 
When Mr I contacted Capital One it was very much in the language of a mistake that £2,000 
was being transferred. I find it unreasonable to expect that Capital One couldve given Mr I a 
fuller response and set out what might happen if a large purchase was made on a card with 
a £200 credit limit where a credit had recently been received. Mr I may have simply done a 
further balance transfer to correct the mistake as opposed to expecting Capital One to 
anticipate that he was in fact going to make a time limited single transaction large purchase.
From all the information Mr I has provided Ive not seen anything to validate the loss he is 
claiming. Mr I has provided an email dated Sunday 5 September 2021 asking him to make a 
payment of 10,000 AED by 5 September for the company formation. The email goes on to 
say if the payment is not made by the deadline, the price will increase by up to an extra 
5,000 AED. But Ive not seen verifiable evidence that 18,000 AED was the final price paid. 
Ive seen no reasoning for the timebound discount offer or evidence the discount offer wasnt 
extended.
 
On Sunday 5 September Mr I initially advised Capital One hed incurred a financial loss of 
£200, and that by the next day he may face a loss of up to £600. Mr I later explained the loss 
of the discount comes to £1,779.08. Mr B has shown a letter of engagement for 18,000AED 
and tells us the discounted rate he wouldve been charged was 10,000AED.
 
Capital One have shown some small payments were made to a Ms M after the card was 
unblocked on Monday 6 September but havent seen proof of the payment for the formation 
of the company. Mr I says the payments were made by cheques from friends accounts as he 
didnt have access to the money needed. But Ive seen no evidence of these payments.
Mr I hasnt provided independently verifiable and persuasive evidence of the amount of the 
discount or confirmation of the exchange rate involved.
Ive seen insufficient evidence of a financial loss incurred by Mr I, hes provided a letter of 
engagement but nothing to confirm the payment he made and the payment he wouldve 
made had his credit card not been blocked. He had access to funds on other credit cards 
and through friends bank accounts to be able to complete the purchase. And taking 
everything into account, on the balance of probabilities, Im not satisfied that Mr I has 
demonstrated the loss for which he is claiming.
As Mr I hasnt demonstrated a financial loss I wont be asking Capital One to make any 
payment to him.
I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findingsMr I provided further testimony including an invoice dated 9 September 2021 for 18,000AED. 
This invoice shows a payment schedule indicating 10,000AED due on 9 September 2021, 
4,000AED due 1 January 2022 and a further 4,000AED due 1 May 2022. 
Mr I has also provided payment receipts showing 10,000 AED paid by credit card (not a 
Capital One card) on 9 September 2021, 4,000AED paid by his friend by check on 5 
January 2022 and 4,000AED paid via a payment aggregator on 17 January 2022.
Capital One made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, including Mr Is submissions following the provisional 
decision, Ive reached the same conclusion as in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr I has strong feelings on his case and if I dont mention a particular point hes 
made it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel it 
necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr I doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Mr I hasnt provided any evidence of the phone calls he tells us he made to Capital One in 
addition to the secure messages exchanged. And I can only consider the evidence Ive seen. 
On balance, Im still not satisfied Capital One couldve reasonably anticipated a time limited 
single transaction for a large purchase would be made by Mr I having enquired about making 
a payment of £2,000 to his credit card.
Ive seen no reasoning for the timebound discount offer, and the letter of engagement Mr I 
provided makes no reference to a discounted price of 10,000AED being available. Mr I had 
previously shown an email dated 5 September 2021 suggesting the price for the company 
formation would increase by 5,000AED if the 10,000AED payment wasnt made that day. 
There is no mention of the figure of 8,000AED claimed for. And its not clear if the 5,000AED 
figure would be in addition to the 18,000AED figure on the letter of engagement and invoice. 
And I note the payments made to the business arranging the company formation varied from 
the due dates on the invoice, and that this was the first time Mr I had referenced a payment 
schedule or that at the time he complained he hadnt paid the amount of the loss he said 
hed incurred. On balance I find Ive not seen consistent and persuasive evidence that Mr I 
missed an opportunity to secure the company formation at a discounted price due to the 
actions of Capital One.
Mr I had access to funds on other credit cards and through his friends bank account to be 
able to complete the purchase on 5 September 2021. On balance Im not satisfied Mr I has 
demonstrated the loss for which he is claiming. And as Mr I hasnt demonstrated a financial 
loss I wont be asking Capital One to make any payment to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman