DRN-3182454
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the information reported on his credit file by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
Mr M acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in September 2016. He 
decided to voluntary terminate the agreement in February 2020 and he spoke to BMWFS to 
arrange this. Mr Ms agreement had an annual mileage limit of 15,000. The car was returned 
with 65,471 miles. As Mr M had the car for 41 months, his limit up to that point was 51,250, 
meaning hed covered 14,221 excess miles. The agreement says BMWFS will charge 9.17 
pence per excess mile. It sent Mr M an invoice for £1,304.07 on 4 March 2020 asking him to 
pay the charge by 18 March 2020. 
Mr M contacted BMWFS at the beginning of April 2020 because he was surprised to receive 
the bill. He said he needed to look into things further. And he also indicated his employment 
was affected by Covid-19. BMWFS responded on 8 April 2020 to explain it had previously 
informed Mr M excess mileage charges may become payable. But it said if Mr M couldnt 
make payment it would be able to discuss a payment plan. It also offered to pass the details 
to the accounts department so it could provide more details if Mr M wished, which he did. 
From what I can see on the contact notes BMWFS made attempts to speak to Mr M and it 
wrote to him in August 2020 to say it had not been able to reach him. I can see Mr M wrote 
back in October and highlighted he was still receiving statements and that hed been out of 
work for six months of the year. It looks like Mr M was unhappy he wasnt being listened to. 
And he wanted to complain BMWFS were reporting negative information to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs).
BMWFS sent a final response to say its reporting to the CRAs was correct but that it also 
offered to set up a payment arrangement. 
Unhappy with BMWFS response, Mr M brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. She said 
the charge became due before the Government imposed national lockdown and job 
retention scheme. As Mr M hadnt paid the charge by the due date, she didnt think BMWFS 
were wrong to record this on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary, he said:
He had foresight his employment would come to an end, or that hed be on furlough, 
and he spoke to BMWFS as soon as he was aware and able. 
The whole country had foresight of a possible national lockdown, which created 
uncertainty.
There were only 20 days between BMWFS invoice and the national lockdown.
Hed done everything to be fair and reasonable in telling BMWFS about his 
circumstances. 
Hed always returned BMWFS calls. 
On returning to employment hed made payments towards the debt  that hed 
always accepted he needed to pay.
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear Mr M has been negatively impacted by Covid-19. It 
cant have been easy, and I thank him for taking the time and effort to bring his complaint to 
our service. 
BMWFS is reporting information to the CRAs relating to a regulated hire purchase 
agreement. And our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
As Mr M has pointed out, hes not disputed he owes the debt to BMWFS. But hes 
complained about BMWFS decision to report the charge as a missed payment. So there are 
a few questions Ive asked myself to decide if BMWFS needs to take any action. 
1. Is the charge valid?
2. Is it correct for BMWFS to report the charge as having been missed?
3. Should BMWFS remove adverse data in relation to the charge?
Turning to the first question, the agreement says Mr M has an annual mileage limit of 
15,000, and that the maximum total mileage for the four-year term is 60,000. It says BMWFS 
will charge 9.17 pence for each excess mile. And it also says If you return the Vehicle before 
the end of the agreement the Total Maximum Mileage will be reduced to reflect the shorter 
period of hire on a pro-rata basis. Your obligation to pay any Excess Mileage Charge will 
accrue immediately prior to termination. 
The agreement sets out that Mr M could terminate the agreement at any time before the final 
repayment became due by giving BMWFS notice. This is what he did. The agreement also 
says Mr M would have to return the car and pay, amongst other things, any arrears and 
other sums which have become payable under the agreement before the termination 
(including any Excess Mileage Charge).
So as a starting point, while Mr M hasnt disputed this, I agree BMWFS is allowed to charge 
him for excess miles covered. And, for completeness sake, having reviewed its calculations, 
I think the charge of £1,304.07 is correct as well. 
Turning to the second question. The agreement sets out that the excess mileage charge is 
immediately payable upon termination. BMWFS wrote to Mr M on 4 March 2020 and asked 
him to pay the invoice by 18 March. This didnt happen. So its not in dispute the charge was 
not paid on time. Therefore, I dont have the grounds to say BMWFS were technically wrong 
to report it as such. 
Turning to the last question. Which to my mind is the key question here. Is there any reason 
why BMWFS should remove the adverse data? Mr M no doubt found himself in a difficult 
position. He says he works in the construction industry and he told BMWFS at the beginning 
of April that he might be about to be furloughed and this is when he asked for help. I agree 
with the investigator here that by the point Mr M asked for help the due date to pay the 
charge had already come and gone. Ive also thought about whether there were any other forbearance measures BMWFS should 
have offered Mr M given hes said he was later impacted by Covid-19. There was no 
guidance released for car finance firms at the time the charge was due on how to treat 
customers whod been impacted by Covid-19. But the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
released guidance later on in April 2020 for car finance firms. The guidance is called Motor 
finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. Even though the 
guidance was issued after Mr Ms charge became due, Ive looked into it to see if theres 
anything that would have applied to Mr M. Ultimately Mr M said his finances were impacted 
by Covid-19 and the guidance was intended for those sort of customers. Was there anything 
BMWFS could or should have retrospectively offered to Mr M?
The Covid-19 guidance broadly said car finance firms should offer customers impacted by 
Covid-19 payment deferrals for up to six months and that these deferrals shouldnt show a 
worsening status on the customers credit file. But Mr Ms situation is slightly different in that 
he had terminated his agreement, and the amount due was in relation to an excess mileage 
charge. 
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, I must take into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In Mr Ms case, Im mindful the charge became overdue before he spoke to BMWFS and 
asked for help. I cant point towards something in the subsequent Covid-19 guidance that 
would clearly indicate BMWFS should have offered to remove the adverse data. Even if I 
could, its taken longer than six months for Mr M to clear the debt. So even if he was given 
some breathing space, it looks likely the debt may have always got to the point of being 
overdue, with his credit file reflecting this. And BMWFS has always indicated it was willing to 
work with Mr M to come to a payment arrangement which is what Id expect. Therefore, 
while I know itll disappoint Mr M, I dont find I have the grounds to ask BMWFS to remove 
adverse information from his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman