DRN-3290495
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent 
to him irresponsibly. 
Mr M is currently in an Individual Insolvency Arrangement (IVA) and his Insolvency 
Practitioner (IP) has told the Financial Ombudsman he has in interest in the outcome of the 
complaint. The IVA commenced in December 2019.
What happened
Everyday approved one loan for Mr M in September 2016. It was for £8,725 over a 24 month 
term and the repayments were just over £544 a month. 
Everyday has notes to show that it obtained copy bank statements from Mr M, and carried 
out a credit search, verified his identity and job (sub-contractor) and had seen a payslip. The 
reason for the loan was to repay another loan which had been costing Mr M £412 each 
month  and I can see that Everyday did that pay-off  plus a £5,000 cash loan which was to 
assist towards Mr Ms wedding costs. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday had not lent 
responsibly and thought it should put things right for Mr M.
Everyday responded to explain that on its calculations carried out at the time of lending, 
Mr Ms income was just under £6,884 each month, it used a reasonable household 
expenditure sum of £1,000 a month to be subtracted from that. It knew Mr Ms credit 
commitments and it had calculated that his monthly costs to repay those amounted to 
around £3,487, which meant Mr M had just over £1,521 left with which to repay Everyday. 
As the loan was removing from Mr M the need to pay for one monthly loan repayment of 
£412, then that meant, after the Everyday loan repayment was deducted from Mr Ms 
disposable income, it still left him with about £1,389 left over.
Everyday reiterated these calculations when it responded to our adjudicators view and 
added that as it had been told Mr M was getting married then Everyday had implied he had 
taken that cash to go towards the wedding costs. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I think Everydays checks were carried out but it didnt react appropriately to the information 
it received. Everyday used a formula to get to a figure for Mr Ms monthly outgoings - £1,000. 
Ive seen from the documents that his rent alone plus his council tax and a water bill come to 
about £1,000. So, its likely Mr M spent more on monthly living costs. And it does not appear 
to me that Everyday factored that into its considerations. The significant evidence in my view is that Everyday had carried out a credit search and  
results showed Mr M had about seven credit cards, at least four loans and two fixed term 
credit products. Everyday has said that these other credit commitments had a total monthly 
repayment of around £3,487, though after the consolidation of the one loan, it likely reduced 
to around £3,075 a month. 
But it was clear to see, and Everyday knew, that Mr M had about £42,490 debt balance 
across all his credit cards. This was a high debt figure on credit cards. And part of the 
calculation to work out Mr Ms monthly credit commitment cost appears to have included 
only the minimum repayment figures for all these cards. On credit card balances of that 
much  about £42,000  then constantly repaying minimum sums, as that seems to have 
been what Everyday banked on, was not likely to be sustainable or sensible. And, in my view 
this was not a strong basis to assess Mr Ms financial position before lending to him and 
leading Mr M into a further 24 months of debt. 
Another indication of unsustainable debt is obtaining further credit to repay existing debt as 
Mr Ms application to Everyday seemed to include. And Everydays assumption that the 
£5,000 capital sum was for his wedding costs may have been mistaken. With that much 
credit card debt it was also feasible that the capital from the Everyday loan could well have 
been used to go towards those other debts which was another indication of unsustainability. 
And I dont think that this was checked.  
I think there was a foreseeable risk here that Mr M wouldnt have been able to meet his 
repayments over 24 months without difficulty. It wouldnt have taken very much unexpected 
or seasonal expense (especially as Mr M was a sub-contractor) to leave Mr M in the position 
of having to borrow further to meet his loan repayments. I think Mr M would have needed a 
larger disposable income for the loan to be sustainable. 
I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
I understand that the loan has been paid off. 
Mr Ms IP needs to be consulted by Everyday about the redress payments.
But subject to that, to calculate the sums, I think Everyday should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital sum of £8,725;
if Mr M has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should, in principle, 
be refunded to him with interest* of 8% simple a year from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. Everyday must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and  subject to the IVA and the IP 
involvement  Everyday Lending Limited should do as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman