DRN-4242148
The complaint
Mr J has complained about his property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc regarding a claim he 
made for water damage at his home.
What happened
Mr J noted a leak in his bathroom in December 2020. He spoke to AXA and it said it would 
only get involved if there was damage resulting from the leak, it said Mr J could call it back 
once he had stopped the leak if he wanted to claim. Mr J called it in summer 2021. He said 
there had recently been a second leak which had caused the floor to fail and start to sink. 
AXA sent an assessor to Mr Js home to view the area and the damage. The assessor 
concluded the floor had been damaged over a prolonged period  likely due to failed seals 
around the shower. AXA declined the claim, noting damage had likely been caused over 
time and that Mr J hadnt been able to present evidence of either leak repair.
Mr J was unhappy. He said the shower was too far away from the damage for it to make 
sense that failed seals had been involved and the floor had been fine until the recent leak. 
He said he had fixed that himself, and whilst a handyman had fixed the leak in December, he 
had no receipt. He felt the assessor had acted poorly during the visit and on a call with him. 
That communication with AXA had been poor too. AXA maintained its decline of Mr Js claim 
and didnt accept most of his concerns about its poor service. But it acknowledged that the 
call between Mr J and the assessor could have been handled better by the assessor, and 
that a call with it had dropped. It paid £75 compensation. 
When Mr J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator felt that AXA 
had, in the main, acted reasonably in deciding and handling Mr Js claim. For the poorly 
handled and dropped calls, she felt AXAs compensation fairly and reasonably made up for 
that. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr J was unhappy. He maintained the shower was too far away from the area of floor 
damage to make the seals the logical cause of damage. He wanted to get his own report but 
was unable to. He said if AXA had given him better advice in December then hed have 
called it back to dry the floor  but it hadnt failed until after the leak in the summer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that part of the floor is unstable. I appreciate how much of a worry this is for 
Mr J. And that he feels he cant progress with any make safe or even estimation works 
unless AXA agrees liability. But I have to look at whether, in the context of the cover Mr J 
has with AXA, AXA has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr J has a policy which offers him cover for damage caused by escape of water. And the 
policy explains, using an example of failed shower seals, that AXA wont be responsible for 
fixing the cause of the leak itself. The policy also contains general exclusions which apply to 
the cover as a whole. One of those is for gradual deterioration/maintenance, explaining that 
loss caused by, amongst other things, wear and tear and depreciation, isnt covered.
I see Mr J first contacted AXA in December 2020. He said a couple of tiles were cracked and 
the floor felt spongy but he didnt think the cost of repair would be worth making a claim for, 
not given the policy excess of £350. He said hed get the leak fixed and it was left that he 
would call back if he wanted AXA to do more. I dont think I could reasonably criticise AXA 
for not doing more at that time; Mr J wasnt sure he wanted to claim and AXA couldnt 
reasonably have advised him about damage it had little detail of. I also note that AXA, 
following the report of the second leak, asked Mr J for evidence that he had had this leak 
repaired. That was so it could consider whether the damage to the floor in summer 2021 
could reasonably be attributed to that December incident. But that Mr J was unable to show 
a repair had been completed.
I can see that the report AXA undertook on the floor when Mr J made the claim in summer 
2021 showed it had likely been suffering damage for some time. The grouting seemed to 
have entirely failed and there seemed to be water staining in the area. The wood under the 
tiles seemed to be failing/have failed. I can see why AXA felt it was unlikely this damage had 
only been caused by a recent leak  it is the type of damage associated with long term 
exposure to water. I can see why AXA wanted Mr J to provide evidence to it that he had 
found a leak from a pipe and had that fixed. That might at least have pointed towards water 
damage occurring that Mr J had not known about, if, for example, the repaired pipe had 
been concealed. That might have helped AXA establish grounds upon which it could 
reasonably accept the claim. But Mr J was unable to present such, hes said he replaced the 
pipe himself and so only has evidence of the pipe he bought.
I note Mr J thinks the area of damage is too far from the shower for faulty seals to logically 
be the cause of the damage. But water can travel once it is outside the confines of 
something like a shower, either tracked by foot fall or sometimes because of the way a floor 
has been installed. The gap might be something AXA could reasonably have reviewed 
further if Mr J had obtained his own expert report detailing the likely cause of damage or 
even if Mr J had provided it with more detail about the location of the pipe he fixed. But, 
currently, AXA has an expert report that concludes water has been escaping from the 
shower due to failed seals, and that this has likely caused the problem with the floor. There 
isnt anything which seems to suggest that this  water leaking from the shower  happened 
on one occasion only, causing the damage identified. And, as Ive said, the damage in 
question is of the type which occurs over time by continued and/or repeated exposure to 
water. 
Overall, I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably when it declined Mr Js claim. So Im not 
going to make it change that view. I know Mr J wasnt happy with some customer service 
issues. But, in the main, I dont think AXA failed him. I note AXA accepts that one call could 
have been handled better, that one was dropped and that its paid £75 compensation for 
that. I think thats fair and reasonable and so Im not going to make it pay anything more.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman