DRN-3174475
The complaint
E, a micro-enterprise, complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited refused to refund 
mobile phone insurance premiums. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
In February 2017 E bought four mobile phones and the phone providers branded Business 
damage and breakdown insurance was put on two of the phones (phone numbers ending 
34 and 44). Assurant is the insurer.
E said:
it didnt take out the policies and didnt know it had the insurance
it checked the phones itemised bills each month and the insurance premiums didnt 
show on the bills
it only discovered it had been paying for the policies in 2021 and wants a refund of 
the £10 a month premium from February 2017 to September 2021.
Assurant wouldnt refund the premiums. The phone provider no longer had the phone and 
policy sales call from 2017. But Assurant said E was sent notification of the insurance and 
the policy terms in 2017 when the policies were taken out and in 2019 at a proposed 
upgrade. Also from 2017 onwards the monthly bills for the two relevant phones had shown 
the premium payment for the insurance. Assurant said it was more likely than not E took out 
the policies and it had provided sufficient information to make E aware of the policies.
Our investigator said Assurant acted fairly in not refunding the policies premiums.
E disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said it only found about the insurance 
when it queried another payment with the phone provider. E thinks its likely that the phone 
provider offered the policies for free for a period when it took out the phone contract or that E 
wasnt told about the policies at all.
. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The phone provider doesnt have the call recording for the phone and policy sale but given 
the time passed I dont think its unreasonable for the recording not to be available.  
There is other relevant evidence. Assurants systems notes show that a welcome pack for 
the insurance, which would have included the policy terms and conditions, was sent to E in 
2017 at the start of the insurance and at a proposed upgrade in 2019 (although the upgrade 
of devices doesnt appear to have taken place). So there is evidence that the policy 
documents were sent to E twice in the period it says it didnt know it had the insurance.
The policy says:
Cancelling your insurance
You may cancel the insurance within the 30 days after you receive the insurance 
documents and providing you have not made a claim you will receive a full refund of 
any premiums paid
If E thought it hadnt taken out the insurance it could have contacted Assurant within the 
30 day period to cancel the policies but it didnt do so. 
Assurant has also provided examples of the monthly bills that have been sent to E for the 
four phones from 2017 to 2021. The bills for the two phones that have the insurance 
attached show the monthly premiums payment which is labelled as Business damage 
insurance. Our investigator has sent those bills to E to show the evidence Assurant provided 
and Es made no comment on those bills. E says it only checked the usage on the bills for 
each number, and not the full bill. Ive seen the bill page E sent us. But that doesnt alter that 
there is evidence E received clear monthly information that the policies were ongoing and 
premiums charged. 
Assurants system notes say in September 2021 E told Assurant it had only noticed on the 
latest bill it had been paying for insurance. Thats different to what Es told us about how it 
found out it had the policies. But whichever is correct, the important point is E was sent 
information at the beginning of the policies and ongoing information that the policies 
continued. 
On the evidence I have I think Assurant could reasonably consider that it was more likely 
than not E took out the policies and that E had been provided with sufficient information to 
make it aware the policies were ongoing and premiums charged. I also think Assurant could 
reasonably have expected E to have contacted it sooner if E didnt want the policies.  
Im satisfied Assurant acted fairly in not refunding the premiums from February 2017 to 
September 2021.
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman