DRN-3505193
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd did not reimburse the money she transferred to a 
fraudster.
Background
In December 2020, Ms D was looking for a place to rent for a few months in London. She 
saw an advert for a flat she was particularly interested in and contacted who she believed 
was the owner. Unfortunately, unbeknownst to Ms D at the time, she was actually speaking 
to a fraudster.
The fraudster told Ms D that she was currently working abroad so couldnt show Ms D 
around the flat as requested  however, the fraudster suggested Ms D made payment 
through a well-known home rental website and that if Ms D didnt like the property, the 
website would be able to refund her. Ms D was sent an email link to what she thought was 
the home rentals website, where she was instructed on how to make a payment. However, 
this website was in fact spoofed and payment was made directly to the fraudster. Ms D paid 
£1,950 through her Monzo online banking app, which she believed was to cover her rent and 
bills for two months, plus one months deposit.
On the day Ms D was supposed to move, she hadnt received any contact from the fraudster 
or the home rental company. Realising shed been the victim of a scam she contacted 
Monzo to raise a claim.
Monzo investigated Ms Ds fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Ms D with a 
refund. Monzo has agreed to act in the spirit of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, although it isnt a signatory of it. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Monzo has said Ms D didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
genuine payment for accommodation. Monzo considers Ms D ought to have done more 
checks to make sure the person she was making the payment to was genuine. Monzo also 
considered it provided Ms D with an effective warning at the time she made the payment.
Monzo contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt to recover Ms Ds money, but unfortunately 
no funds remained in the account.
Ms D disagreed with Monzo so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the case and didnt uphold it  she thought that, in the circumstances, Ms D 
ought to have completed further checks to verify that the rental advert was genuine. She 
also didnt consider there was a requirement for Monzo to provide an effective warning, due 
to the value of the payment Ms D made. The investigator therefore didnt consider that 
Monzo needed to do anything to put things right for Ms D.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Ms D under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect Ms D from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms D was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
was making a genuine payment towards rental accommodation and that didnt happen. But 
this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Ms D to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Ms D too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is 
for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one 
of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Ms D under the 
terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under 
the provisions of the CRM Code applies.Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Ms D was making are enough to support its position that she 
failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment she made. I 
dont think Ms D had a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
Ms D was told she could rent the accommodation in question for £650 per month, which 
would include her bills. Having considered the size and location of the property, and the fact 
Ms D wasnt able to view the property in advance, I think this shouldve raised some alarm 
bells with Ms D as an unrealistic price. Having researched other genuine rental properties in 
a similar location I can see theyre largely advertised for upwards of £1,000 per month. I 
appreciate Ms D has said she has not been in the country for a long time and so is less 
aware of property prices in London  I understand prices can vary, but Im aware Ms D 
worked reasonably nearby to the area of London she was looking to rent in, so wouldve had 
some understanding of the area, which I think wouldve been supported by the browsing for 
properties shed already been conducting.
In addition, while Ms D was sent a spoofed website regarding making a payment for her 
accommodation, the request asked Ms D to make the payment to an account name that 
matched neither the person she believed shed been corresponding with, nor the rental 
website in question. I think again this shouldve raised concerns and further questions been 
asked before proceeding.
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Ms D 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the rental offer shed seen and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Ms Ds part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing the rental offer was 
genuine and so fell below the level of care expected of her under the CRM Code.
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Ms D?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Ms D from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Ms D made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, having considered the payment Ms D made, I dont think it was so remarkable, 
in comparison to her usual account activity, that Monzo shouldve identified the payment as 
a potential fraud risk. Therefore, while I dont consider the warning Monzo provided was 
effective under the Code, I also dont think there was a requirement for this particular 
payment for Monzo to provide an effective warning. I therefore dont think Monzo failed to 
meet its standards under the Code by not doing so, prior to processing the payment.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Monzo tried to recover Ms Ds funds, but unfortunately 
was advised by the beneficiary account that no funds remained. Having considered the short 
timeframes within which Monzo contacted the beneficiary account to make it aware of the scam, I dont think Monzo could reasonably have done anything further to recover Ms Ds 
payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that Monzos position on Ms Ds fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Monzo shouldnt 
be held liable for Ms Ds losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Ms D. 
I do sympathise with Ms D as shes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt 
Ms D genuinely believed she was paying towards accommodation. But the circumstances of 
the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman