DRN-3171041
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was unable to manage his bank accounts with Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) when its internet banking service went down. To resolve his complaint, Mr W 
seeks financial compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive looked at Lloyds Internet Banking Agreement which sets out the terms and 
conditions applicable to customers registered for the service. They state that there 
may be occasions when access to some or all of the internet banking services isnt 
unavailable. The terms go on to state, We wont be liable to you if you suffer any 
loss in such circumstances. This is because you should be able to give us 
instructions by other means, for example by calling us or coming into one of our 
branches. So based on the terms, Im satisfied Lloyds has made it clear that there 
can be some periods when internet banking isnt available. 
Lloyds has explained that it was experiencing issues with its internet banking service 
on the day in question from around 4:00 am until 11:30 am. From the information Ive 
seen, I understand that Mr W made three attempts to log in during this period  
9:26:21 am, 9:26:43 am, and 9:48:27 am. I also understand that he was able to 
successfully log in at 1:28:34 pm that afternoon.
I acknowledge that a disruption like this can cause inconvenience and/or distress. 
Mr W couldnt access his accounts online for about four hours. So, I can appreciate 
how frustrating this would have been for him. But Im also mindful that, as already set 
out in its terms and conditions, Lloyds offers several channels to its customers to 
manage their accounts. It has confirmed that in this instance, the disruption only 
affected its internet banking service. So, Mr W would have been able to manage his 
bank accounts using Lloyds telephone banking service.
Mr Ws preference may well have been to use internet banking, and this wasnt 
available. However, four hours after he first tried to log on, the service was working 
again. Mr W hasnt told us (or provided any evidence to demonstrate) that he 
suffered a financial loss because of this disruption. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Lloyds apology for the disruption to its 
internet banking service fairly recognises the inconvenience this caused Mr W. And 
I dont consider financial compensation is warranted here. This is because Ive found 
that: the disruption lasted a few hours; Mr W had other banking channels at his 
disposal to manage his accounts during this period; and theres no financial loss. 
For these reasons, although I understand his frustrations and recognise its likely that hell 
disagree with my findings, I wont be instructing Lloyds to pay Mr W compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman