DRN-3919009
The complaint
Mr M complains an issue with his AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest 
(AJ Bell) online account prevented him from carrying out a transaction for his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) investments when he wanted to, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M had a SIPP with AJ Bell. On 1 March 2022, he tried logging into his AJ Bell online 
account because he wanted to make an account transaction (dealing). A new pop-up asked 
Mr M to enter some personal information. Mr M worried this might be a scam, as he thought 
AJ Bell should already have the information the pop-up asked for, and the address 
information shown in the pop-up was mixed-up and incomplete. Mr M couldnt access his 
online account without entering information into the pop-up, so he phoned AJ Bell. The agent 
Mr M spoke to didnt know what the pop-up was, so they asked Mr M to provide a 
screenshot so AJ Bell could investigate.
Mr M sent in the screenshot but didnt hear anything back. So on 4 March 2022 he called AJ 
Bell to chase. It explained the pop-up was part of its new login in order to verify customer 
information, but that AJ Bell might have entered Mr Ms address data in the in the incorrect 
fields. Mr M insisted AJ Bells system was corrupted. So AJ Bell agreed to investigate as a 
priority and apologised for not responding to Mr M sooner. Towards the end of this call, Mr M 
said the pop-up had stopped him from dealing online, so AJ Bell advised he could do phone 
dealing instead. Mr M chose to deal through his online account and did so that same day. 
In a call on 8 March 2022, AJ Bell gave Mr M a more detailed explanation for the pop-up and 
the missing and mixed-up information it showed  it explained these were caused by a 
systems migration in 2012, and it offered Mr M £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
But Mr M said the pop-up had prevented him from dealing online on 1 March 2022 as hed 
wanted, causing him a loss of value. And he thought AJ Bell wasnt managing its processes 
and systems, or training its staff about this system migration and pop-up. 
In its response to Mr Ms complaint, AJ Bell said it had escalated Mr Ms concerns for expert 
investigation and resolved them within a reasonable time, but it would raise this issue for 
training purposes. AJ Bell also said Mr M could still have dealt online on 1 March 2022 by 
entering the information the pop-up asked for, or he could have told AJ Bell hed wanted to 
deal and it would have arranged phone dealing instead. As a gesture of goodwill, AJ Bell 
offered Mr M a total of £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M came to our Service. He told our Investigator that AJ Bells 
unreasonable, unannounced and suspicious pop-up had prevented him from dealing online 
on 1 March 2022, so it should compensate him for the financial loss in value this caused 
him. He thought it was unreasonable to say he couldve dealt by phone, since the point of an 
online account was to let customers manage things as and when they wanted. And he 
shouldnt have to tell AJ Bell hed wanted to deal, because it knew why customers went 
online and so when he told it on 1 March 2022 that he couldnt access his online account, it 
shouldve asked him if he wanted phone dealing. And in any case, the pop-up meant he 
couldnt access the information hed need for phone dealing. Mr M said AJ Bell had made an 
error and hed been frustrated by its lack of response.
AJ Bell told our Investigator Mr M couldve got the information for phone dealing by speaking 
to its phone dealing team, or by checking independent investment research websites for 
information about his investments and the wider market. AJ Bell accepted Mr Ms preference 
was to deal online, but said its phone dealing service was a reasonable alternative.
Ultimately, our Investigator said telling a business how to manage its systems and staff 
wasnt in our Services remit. And she thought AJ Bell had made reasonable efforts to let 
Mr M know there was another way to deal while the pop-up was investigated, so it hadnt 
prevented Mr M from dealing on 1 March 2022 and didnt need to compensate his financial 
loss. She thought the £100 AJ Bell had already offered was fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr M. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me to for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M is concerned about AJ Bells training, systems, and processes, but I must 
be clear that its not the role of our Service to tell a business how to operate  thats the role 
of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, the role of our Service is to 
impartially investigate individual complaints to see if a business has treated a consumer 
fairly and reasonably. If we think it hasnt, well tell the business what it must do to put the 
consumer back into the position they should have been in.
Having considered Mr Ms complaint, Im not asking AJ Bell to do anything further here. I 
realise this isnt the answer Mr M wanted, but Ill explain my reasons. 
Its not in dispute that when Mr M tried to access his online account, there was a pop-up that 
Mr M couldnt get past unless he entered the information it was asking for. I appreciate why 
Mr M was concerned about this and why he called AJ Bell about it on 1 March 2022. Ive 
listened to that call and I can hear that at the start, an automated message says: 
We have introduced two simple options in order to get you through to the right person as 
quicky as possible. Please listen carefully for both options. If you are trying to place a deal or 
have a question regarding dealing, including corporate actions and dividends, please press 
one for dealing services. If your query concerns anything which is not related to dealing, for 
example transfers to your account, our website, or anything else, please press two for 
customer services.
When Mr M called AJ Bell on 1 March 2022, he was aware that he wanted to deal. I 
appreciate he might have preferred to do so through his online account, but Im satisfied that 
even before Mr M got through to one of AJ Bells agents, AJ Bell had made a reasonable 
effort, through its automated message, to inform him that he could speak to its dealing 
services if he wanted to. And I think Mr M would have been able to get the information he 
needed for his deal from dealing services. But it seems Mr M didnt choose the option for 
speaking to dealing services. Given all this, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that AJ Bell 
prevented Mr M from making the trade he wanted to on 1 March 2022. So Im not asking AJ 
Bell to compensate Mr M for the financial loss he thinks it caused him.Instead of choosing the dealing services option, it seems Mr M instead chose the customer 
services option. I know Mr M thinks he shouldnt have had to tell AJ Bell in this call that he 
wanted to deal. But the automated recording had already informed him that customer 
services was the option for anything not related to dealing. And once he was connected to 
AJ Bells customer services agent, there was nothing in what Mr M then told them to suggest 
he was trying to deal. Im also mindful there are many reasons why a customer might call 
AJ Bells customer services. So while Mr M thinks AJ Bell should itself have offered him 
phone dealing in this call, I dont think thats a reasonable expectation in these particular 
circumstances. 
In the 1 March 2022 call, it was clear Mr M was concerned the pop-up might be either a 
scam or a problem with AJ Bells system. And while AJ Bells customer services agent didnt 
know what the pop-up was, they listened and tried to help. And they escalated the matter, 
which I think was a reasonable thing to do given the technical nature of the issue and Mr Ms 
concerns about it. But it seems AJ Bell itself accepts it should have got back to Mr M about 
this sooner, as it apologised to Mr M for this when he called to chase on 4 March 2022. 
In the call on 4 March 2022, AJ Bell reassured Mr M the pop-up was legitimate, albeit it 
agreed to investigate further given Mr Ms insistence. But Mr M felt reassured enough to 
provide the information the pop-up asked for, and went on to deal online that day. So AJ Bell 
had resolved Mr Ms concerns about the pop-up by 4 March 2022, three days after he raised 
them. I dont think this is an unreasonably long time for a business to investigate and resolve 
a customers query. 
AJ Bell has itself accepted it might have caused Mr M some concern and inconvenience, 
since it offered him £100 compensation for this. And I agree Mr M was caused some 
inconvenience in having to call AJ Bell about the pop-up, and was caused some concern 
and uncertainty while it investigated this. But Im satisfied that this distress and 
inconvenience was relatively short-lived and minor, so agree that the £100 AJ Bell has itself 
already offered Mr M is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. So AJ Bell 
should pay Mr M this £100, if it hasnt already done so.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not asking AJ Bell to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest 
should pay Mr M £100 compensation if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Ailsa WiltshireOmbudsman