DRN-3493436
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI), trading as Post Office Financial 
Services, has issued him with a card for his Post Office account that doesnt work. He said 
hes tried to bank a cheque for £5,000 for nine months but has been unable to do so.
What happened
Mr S opened a Post Office Money Instant Saver account in early 2021. In August he 
complained to BOI that hed been unable to access his account using the ATM card 
provided. He also complained hed been unable to deposit a large cheque for £5,000. Mr S 
said he was suffering from significant health issues.
 
In September BOI responded to Mr Ss complaint. It said it had sent several new cards and 
PINs to Mr S which hadnt worked despite trying to activate them at an ATM. It confirmed 
that it had experienced issues with its card supplier which had affected a small number of 
cards that had been issued. It arranged a payment of £150, in addition to £30 previously 
refunded, in full settlement of the complaint. 
Mr S complained further in November. He said the transaction he attempted with a new card 
had been declined. He said he was still unable to deposit his cheque. BOI said it sent a new 
card, PIN and Paying-In Book, which had been issued on or around 4 November. It also said 
the card wasnt required to deposit a cheque. BOI suggested Mr S try using the card after 
the cheque had cleared. As a result, following a further review of the issues Mr S raised, BOI 
arranged to credit his account with an additional £150.00 in resolution of the complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said these issues had had an extreme impact 
on him and his current serious health issues. Our investigator concluded that BOI didnt 
need to take any further action and that £330 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but having done so I wont be asking 
BOI to do anything further. 
Im very sorry to hear Mr S has been unwell and that the issues described above have had 
an impact on his health. Ive seen that he has made numerous points in support of his 
complaint. I trust Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the 
way that I have as Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. 
BOI has accepted it had some problems with cards for some customers. In its responses to 
Mr Ss complaint in September and November it acknowledged those issues and the 
inconvenience they caused Mr S by awarding him a total of £330 in compensation. But Mr S 
said he continues to have problems and also hasnt been able to deposit a cheque.
In its final response letter in September BOI said:
It is possible that visiting a Post Office counter and asking for the card to be swiped 
may have the desired affect and activate the card. I would be grateful if you could try 
this and then attempt to use the card at the ATM. Please then e-mail me at the above 
address to inform me of the outcome. Please make sure you are using your most 
recent card and most recent PIN. If this does not work then I will need to refer the 
matter to our Card Services Team.
Mr S further communicated with BOI that the card still doesnt work but it appears he hasnt 
done as requested in the September letter, specifically asking for the card to be swiped at 
the counter. He was sent a new card and Paying-In book in early November, but said he 
continued to have problems with the card.  
In its response letter of 24 November BOI said: 
Please be advised that the Paying in slip is all that is required to make a deposit at 
the counter of a Post Office branch. The ATM card and PIN are not required for this... 
Your e-mail details that you tried to use the card and PIN for this so I would suggest 
visiting your local branch counter with the cheque and the paying in slip.
In regard to the ATM card and PIN, I can confirm that there are no blocks on the 
account and nothing to suggest you should be experiencing issues with these items.
At the moment, as there are no funds in the account to withdraw, it is difficult to carry 
out a further investigation of the problems you continue to experience and there is a 
possibility that with the funds cleared in the account the ATM card and PIN may 
work.
BOI has said it deposited the first £150 into Mr Ss account. Its not clear to me how he 
withdrew that money but in November the balance was nil. BOI asked Mr S to deposit 
money in order that it might trigger the card to work. 
Mr S has said a few times that he couldnt deposit his £5,000 cheque because the card 
wouldnt work, including in an email to this service on 2 December after the letter from BOI.   
And then he said the cheque was cancelled. In his response to our investigators view Mr S 
said he only received the new book to pay in cheques in the seventh month of the complaint 
and that because the card was still not functioning, he didnt feel comfortable in paying in 
money, he considered this reasonable in the circumstances. I do understand Mr Ss concern. 
But its not the case that the card is needed to make deposits and Mr S had been asked in 
both final response letters to carry out specific actions to trigger the card to work. And I 
havent seen any evidence that he did these actions. Mr S has told this service hes tried the 
card many times at an ATM but he hasnt said that he had the card swiped by staff at the 
Post Office counter. 
Our investigator asked Mr S if he had any evidence the cheque had been cancelled prior to 
receiving the new Paying-In book or that he had tried to deposit the cheque in the branch 
previously using the old book. Unfortunately, Mr S wasnt able to provide this. He said a 
branch manager at the Post Office told him not to deposit funds until the card was fully 
functional. I asked BOI to respond to this. It said: 
The range of services provided to banking organisations by the Post Office under 
their Everyday Banking initiative is extensive. It is difficult to determine what an 
employee of Post Office would have said in response to an enquiry. However, Mr S 
had access to lodgement slips and has his account number to make a deposit. Ultimately it was Mr Ss decision to make the cheque deposit or not, but the option 
was always available to him.
My role is to come to what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence 
available to me. Where evidence is missing, disputed or conflicting, Ill look at whats 
available and the surrounding circumstances  to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Im not disputing Mr Ss version of events. Its clear that hes been inconvenienced by the 
problems with his card and hes had to deal with them while being ill which cant have been 
easy. BOI acknowledged there were problems with the cards and paid Mr S £330 for the 
inconvenience over several months. Under the circumstances I think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount. 
But it was also Mr Ss responsibility to help himself in this situation and carry out the 
instructions indicated in BOIs letters. And I cant see that he has. I do understand Mr Ss 
concern about depositing his cheque, but it was never the case that he needed the card to 
deposit money. He could have deposited the cheque at any point using a paying in slip at 
the counter with his account number. And BOI asked Mr S to deposit some funds in order to 
see if this triggered the operation of the card. While it is of course possible Mr S was told by 
the Post Office manager not to deposit funds I dont know what happened as I wasnt there. I 
can only say what I think likely occurred. And I think it unlikely the manager would have told 
him not to deposit the cheque. I say this because I think it reasonable to expect that a 
deposit could be made into instant saver account independent of whether a card is provided 
or operational.  
I think it would be sensible for Mr S do the actions suggested by BOI in its letters, including 
depositing funds, even a small amount, allowing them to clear, asking the Post Office staff at 
the counter to swipe the most recent card and then trying it again in an ATM. If this then 
fails, per its letter, BOI has said it will liaise with the Card Services Team.
My final decision
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI), trading as Post Office Financial Services, has already paid 
Mr S £330 to settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman