DRN-2345871
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mrs D under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance 
that she electronically signed in February 2020. The car was taken to the dealer in March 
2020 because of a warning light but no fault was found. The car broke down in May 2020 
and error codes about the engine and gearbox were found so Mrs D complained to Oodle 
Car Finance and she says that it asked her to provide a diagnostic report on the car. The car 
broke down again in June 2020 and a garage identified similar error codes and estimated 
that repair costs would be in excess of £2,000. 
Mrs D complained to this service and says that the car was bought for her daughter but isnt 
being used because of the issues with it. Our investigator initially said that he thought that 
her complaint should be upheld but Oodle Car Finance provided further information from the 
dealer and he then didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Mrs D had confirmed that the car was driving normally, without faults, error codes couldnt be 
found by the dealer when the car was returned to it and it wasnt showing any faults - so he 
couldnt fairly say that Oodle Car Finance needed to do anymore.
Mrs D has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that the 
cars been in her garage since June 2020 and she wants to return it and to receive back the 
money that shes paid for it. She also says that shes stopped making the monthly payments 
to Oodle Car Finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs D - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mrs D was nearly nine years old, had been driven for 
about 79,000 miles and had a price of £3,800;
it had failed an MOT test in February 2020 because of issues with a headlamp and 
tyre but those issues were rectified and the car passed an MOT test three days later 
when its mileage was recorded as 79,096 and advisories about a roll bar joint and a 
shock absorber were noted  but there was no reference to any issues with the 
gearbox or engine;
its clear that Mrs D has had some issues with the car - she says that it had a warning 
light in March 2020, it cut-out twice and error codes about the engine and gearbox 
have been found by two different garages  and shes provided video of the car;
the dealer has checked the car twice when it was returned to it but hasnt been able 
to find a fault with the car and it says that Mrs D has confirmed that the car was 
driving normally;
although fault codes have been found, Ive not seen evidence from either of the 
garages that looked at the car to confirm that theres a fault with the cars engine or 
gearbox and I dont consider that the video that Mrs D has provided shows that 
theres such a fault with the car;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres a fault with the 
cars engine or gearbox that causes the car not to have been of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mrs D;
I sympathise with Mrs D for the issues that shes had with the car but Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Oodle Car Finance to accept Mrs Ds rejection of the car; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Oodle Car Finance to end 
the hire purchase agreement, to pay any compensation to Mrs D or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
Mrs D says that shes stopped making the monthly payments under the agreement to Oodle 
Car Finance. I dont consider that she had any right to do that so will be in breach of her 
agreement. I suggest that she contacts Oodle Car Finance to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the arrears on her account. If she doesnt do that and doesnt 
make the required payments under the agreement, I consider it to be likely that Oodle Car 
Finance will take further action against her to recover that money, to the extent that its 
legally entitled to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman