DRN-1552933
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr T took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch in 1986.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T says he didnt know he had PPI  meaning that Santander added it to his mortgage 
account without his knowledge or consent.
Looking at the mortgage application form completed at the time, I can see there was a 
separate section entitled Other insurances available  please tick box if required. This 
related to PPI and underneath there was the option to take out either accident and sickness 
cover, or accident, sickness and redundancy cover, by ticking an adjacent box. The box next 
to accident, sickness and redundancy cover has been ticked. Mr T could have elected to not 
tick either of the boxes if he hadnt wanted PPI.
Mr T says that the form was filled in by someone else and that he just signed where he was 
told. Its quite common during mortgage interviews for the adviser to complete the form in 
response to answers provided by the applicant during the meeting.
Ive no doubt that Mr T had provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ts memory has faded. From 
the evidence Ive seen, I consider that there was probably some discussion about insurance 
and that the PPI was presented as optional. It seems to me that Mr T probably decided to 
buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Santander advised Mr T to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr T says he would have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr T would have received 
full pay for (as the policy could have potentially paid out for up to 24 months). Mr T says he 
had some savings, but having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. A mortgage is a significant 
financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr T had an interest in protecting his 
repayments.
I think Mr T would have known something about the policy  that it would have paid his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. Its 
possible that Santander didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind. So hes no worse off as a 
result of anything Santander may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Santander needs 
to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr T's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman