DRN-2083712
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the increase in premium for her home insurance policy which she held 
with UIA (Insurance) Limited trading as UIA Mutual Insurance. She also complains that she 
received a No Claims Bonus (NCB) of 40% when she first bought her policy in 2016, which 
she no longer has.
What happened
Ms F bought a home insurance policy through UIA Mutual in July 2017 under which she 
received a discount. Her premium went up at renewal in 2018 by £20, and at renewal in 
2019 it went up by a further £60. 
Ms F said she didnt understand why her premium had gone up in price and she complained 
to UIA. She said she wanted a return of the 40% NCB. She cancelled her policy before the 
renewal in July 2019.
In July 2019 UIA told ,Ms F that it applied a 40% new business discount when she bought 
her policy in 2017 as she was a new customer. It said Ms Fs premium at each renewal was 
correct and in line with its pricing structure for 2018 and 2019. 
Ms F remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought UIA 
had acted fairly. He explained that Ms Fs NCB hadnt been affected by the discounted price 
she received in 2017 as a new customer. He thought it wasnt unreasonable for UIA not to 
have applied the same discount in subsequent years.
Ms F called to say she didnt agree. Shes unhappy that UIA didnt do anything for her when 
she called it about the premium increase at renewal.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F told us she is mourning the loss of a family member. I appreciate that dealing with this 
complaint at such a difficult time has been upsetting for her. 
My role is to look at whether UIA treated Ms F fairly during the time she held an insurance 
policy with it. I understand Ms F will be very disappointed, but I think it has. Ill explain why.
We dont think a business has necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance 
premium at renewal. There are often risk-related reasons associated with the various 
insurers of the policy for doing so. Industry increases over time can also play a part. There is 
a wide range of products available on the open market for similar cover at differing prices. It 
isnt for us to tell a business what premium it should charge. This is a commercial decision 
they are entitled to make.
When new policies are taken out, they often come with a significant initial discount which 
insurers aim to recoup over the years through customer retention. This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance policy. 
And businesses can also offer their customers discounts with the aim of retaining their 
existing customers. This is something businesses may do at their own discretion and we 
wouldnt consider it unfair. 
I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can have a different perception of the risk a 
customer presents  and so the cost between insurers can be different based on each 
insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure.
All of these factors will have an impact on the cost of the policy Ms F held with UIA and 
renewed in subsequent years. So, although Ms F might take out a policy at a lower cost 
today, for the reasons explained, I dont think UIA did anything wrong by increasing the 
premium in subsequent years, based on its pricing structure.
I think theres been some confusion in that Ms F may believe the new customer discount 
and her NCB are the same. This isnt true. Ms Fs No Claims Bonus (NCB) is separate to the 
discount in price she received on her premium in 2017 as a new customer. So provided no 
claims were made, the number of NCB years Ms F has earned will be unaffected by the 
premium discount she received from UIA in 2017.
So taking everything into account, I think UIA treated Ms F fairly. And this means I dont think 
UIA needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman