DRN-3915869
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (trading as Cardiff Pinnacle) failed to 
convert the sickness claim he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy to an unemployment claim as expected, that it hasnt now fully paid out on the 
unemployment claim and that it is requiring him to provide job search evidence. Additionally, 
he has complained about issues with the claims process and how his complaint was dealt 
with in terms of being provided with requested information.
What happened
Following a couple of periods when Mr G was signed off work in 2019 and 2020, his 
employment was terminated by means of a compromise agreement on 31 May 2020. 
It was in February 2021 that Mr G first contacted Pinnacle to enquire about the possibility of 
making a claim. He was sent a claim form that he returned in March 2021, following which 
his sickness claim was accepted and a payment made in April 2021.
Mr G had understood that the claim would be automatically switched from sickness to 
unemployment. As such he was expecting further payments but heard nothing more from 
Pinnacle. It transpired that he had been sent a continuing claim form (CCF) to complete in 
April 2021 but hadnt received it. It was after Mr G spoke to an adviser on 21 September 
2021 that Pinnacle started to re-assess the claim again and switched it to an unemployment 
claim. In doing so it asked Mr G for more information, including evidence of job searches. 
Pinnacle then accepted the unemployment claim as starting from November 2020, as the 
date when Mr G first registered for Universal Credit (UC). However, it said it would only 
consider payments from 7 September 2021 as that was the earliest date that it had any 
information about Mr G applying for jobs. In total Pinnacle has agreed to pay three months 
benefit covering September 2021, January 2022 and February 2022 on the basis of what Mr 
G has told them about jobs hes applied for.
Pinnacles position is that it has not totally rejected any ongoing claim and will consider 
making more payments subject to Mr G completing a CCF with supporting evidence that he 
has been actively seeking employment. Pinnacle has also paid Mr G a total of £95 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused due to delays with processing the 
claim and complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Pinnacle had acted fairly, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, in agreeing to only pay out for those months where Mr G was actively seeking 
work. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recording from 12 February 2021 when Mr G rang up to ask about 
making a claim. He explains that he hadnt previously thought to make a claim for his sick 
periods because he was being fully paid by his employer at those times. The adviser 
explains that its irrelevant whether he was being paid or not and that they could roll the 
sickness claim into an unemployment claim.
The adviser explains what Mr G needs to do in terms of completing the claim form. He says 
Mr G needs to fill out his part but that the form also needs to go to his GP to fill out their part 
and to the former employer to fill out their part. Its explained that, if the employer could 
complete the sickness part of the form, that would give it something to go on in terms of 
when the sickness periods occurred. The adviser then said it would also need a copy of the 
termination letter to confirm that the employment had ended (which would hopefully mean 
that it wouldnt need to contact the employer again) and a copy of the first few pages of the 
UC journal.
Mr G seeks clarification on whether he should complete an unemployment claim form as well 
as a sickness claim form. The adviser says its a sickness claim at the moment but that the 
reason he was being asked to also provide the termination letter and UC journal was 
because that evidence could then be used to roll it over into an unemployment claim without 
having to send another claim form out.
The adviser does point out that, even though Mr G has set up his own business which is 
ongoing, that wouldnt prevent it from looking into continuing the claim. But the only thing is 
that part of the policy requires that he is still looking for work whilst claiming for 
unemployment. Mr G accepts this without any issue and says that, as setting up the 
business has gone slower than hoped, he has been looking for other jobs, which he can 
evidence. The adviser responds that they will cross that bridge when they come to it.
But a problem then arises because that bridge never does get crossed. There seems to 
have been some misunderstanding because although Mr G returned the claim form in March 
2021, the employers section had not been completed. And he did not attach the termination 
letter or the UC journal. So Pinnacle only had sufficient evidence to assess the sickness 
claim  and even then there was some doubt about the actual periods of sickness because 
of the employers section being blank. And it certainly didnt have enough information to 
switch the claim to one of unemployment.
As Pinnacle was uncertain of the dates for the sickness claim, it sent him out a CCF in April 
2021. Its possible that things might have been sorted out at this point, but as mentioned 
above, Mr G unfortunately did not receive the form.
On balance, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that theres no fault on the part of 
Pinnacle for not automatically switching the claim from sickness to unemployment  because 
Ms G hadnt provided the information he was asked to provide that would have enabled it to 
do so. And I cannot hold Pinnacle responsible for Mr G not receiving the CCF in April 2021.
After speaking to Mr G in September 2021, Pinnacle asks Mr G for information in support of 
his unemployment claim and on 6 October 2021 he does provide a copy of the compromise 
agreement and the UC journal. However, he says that he is unable to provide evidence of 
job applications as he has been working to establish his own business.
Under the policy terms, part of the definition of being unemployed is:
being available for and actively seeking work and being able to provide evidence of this.Mr G says that the need to produce job applications was only introduced much later. He 
feels that Pinnacles failure to communicate or respond to messages led to him not 
understanding the need to apply for jobs.
However, having listened to the phone call of 12 February 2021, Im satisfied that Mr G was 
made aware of the requirement that he should be looking for work in addition to trying to set 
up his own business. I appreciate that Mr G then didnt hear anything more from Pinnacle 
after March 2021 as he was expecting to. But he had assumed that his claim had been 
switched to an unemployment claim, and he knew that he had to be actively seeking work for 
such a claim to succeed. Furthermore, hed told the adviser in February 2021 that he could 
evidence the fact that hed been looking for other jobs.
The intention of the policy is to provide support to policyholders during a difficult time when 
they have found themselves without work, until they hopefully find work or otherwise receive 
the maximum 12 months benefit. It is not the intention of the policy to provide policyholders 
with a grace period in which they attempt to build up a business rather than actively looking 
for paid employment. Therefore, I consider it is fair and reasonable for Pinnacle to require Mr 
G to provide evidence that he was seeking permanent employment. 
Pinnacle hasnt seen any direct evidence of the three job applications that Mr G noted in his 
CCF. Nevertheless, it has agreed to pay out for three months on the basis of what Mr G has 
provided. On balance, I consider this to be a fair and reasonable response on the part of 
Pinnacle.
I also consider that the £95 paid to Mr G is reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
As mentioned, Pinnacle hasnt fully declined the claim and will look at further information that 
Mr G is able to provide. Therefore, if Mr G has any other evidence of looking for work, he 
might wish to consider forwarding this to Pinnacle for it to review.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman