DRN-4344318
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS).
What happened
In May 2022 Mr R entered into an agreement with VWFS for a new car costing £87,300. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr R undertook to make an 
advance payment of £6,000 followed by 48 monthly payments of £1,193.79 and 1 payment 
of £40,408.75  making a total sum repayable of £103,710.67 at an APR of 6.7%.
In September 2022 Mr Rs car was involved in an accident and went to an insurance 
appointed garage for repair.
In February 2023, after a possible fault with the steering wheel was identified, the car was 
moved from the insurance appointed garage to the original supplying dealership. 
In February 2023, over the course of 9 days, the original supplying dealership supplied and 
fitted a new steering wheel to the car. 
In February 2023 the car was moved from the original supplying dealership to the insurance 
appointed garage for accident repairs to be completed.
In February 2023 the car was returned by the insurance appointed garage to Mr R.
In May 2023 Mr R advised our service that:
the steering wheel fault had been fixed
the lane assist doesnt work and has never worked
he was without his car between 5 September 2022 and 23 February 2023
whilst without his car he had use of a like for like replacement but with a lower 
specification
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld in part and that VWFS should pay him £300.
VWFS agreed with the investigators view, but Mr R didnt. And because of the latter Mr Rs 
complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS is responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr R to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr R took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Where goods were of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, the CRA allows a 
30-day short term right to reject. And, when this isnt exercised, then the supplier of the 
goods has a single chance at repair. To exercise a short term right to reject, the consumer 
would have to specifically ask to reject the goods  its not sufficient just to identify and 
complain about any faults. 
While Im satisfied that Mr R asked to reject the car, these requests were made after his 
short term right to reject had expired and as such VWFS werent and arent required to 
accept rejection.
lane assist issue
Based on what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied there might be a fault with 
the lane assist. But there is simply insufficient evidence for me to be able to conclude that 
this fault was present or developing at the time of supply. Furthermore, even if this fault was 
present at the time of supply Im not persuaded such a fault would have made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.steering wheel issue
Its not disputed that there was a steering wheel fault with the car when it was supplied to 
Mr R. But its also not in dispute that this issue has been fixed and at no cost to Mr R. Given 
this, and under the terms of the CRA, Mr R doesnt have the right to reject the car for this 
issue, even though I appreciate his reasons for wanting to do so. So, in respect of this issue 
I wont be asking VWFS to take back the car and unwind the agreement. 
Although the steering wheel issue has been fixed I think its only fair that Mr R be paid 
something for the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused him.
I dont underestimate Mr Rs strength of feeling on this point but given how quickly the 
original supplying dealership supplied and fitted a new steering wheel and given that Mr R 
had the benefit of a like for like (albeit lower spec) car for the period he was without his own 
Im satisfied that the sum of £300 recommended by the investigator is both fair and 
reasonable.
For the sake of completeness I would add:
I dont dispute that that prior to Mr R taking delivery of the car its possible a fault 
code relating to the steering wheel wasnt adequately investigated and simply 
cleared by the supplying dealership. But the fact remains that the fault with the 
steering wheel, which the cleared fault code may or may not have related to, has 
been fixed and rejection of the car by Mr R would represent a disproportionate 
remedy.
I appreciate Mr R believes that he has lost out financially by holding on to the car 
and waiting for VWFS and our service to investigate his complaint. But ultimately the 
decision to hold on to the car (rather than selling it) was Mr Rs and I see no good 
reason as to why he should be compensated for this decision and his perceived loss 
in making it.
Mr R says he should be compensated for driving around in a car that was dangerous 
and in a car that put his new-born baby at risk. However, Im not persuaded the 
steering wheel fault made the car unsafe. But even if it did, Mr R didnt have an 
accident as a result of the steering wheel fault, he was unaware of the steering wheel 
fault until the car had been taken off the road for an unrelated matter and given that 
the car was only returned to the road when the issue with the steering wheel had 
been fixed.
In the light of Mr Rs submissions to our service dated 12 September 2023 I accept that he 
will be disappointed with my findings. But for the reasons Ive given Im satisfied that in the 
particular circumstances of this case a fair and reasonable outcome to this compliant is for 
VWFS to pay Mr R £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services must pay Mr R £300, but it need do nothing further.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman