DRN-1983621
 
The complaint
Ms M complains Gain Credit LLC (Lending Stream) lent her money she couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
Ms M took out an instalment loan with Lending Stream. The details for this loan are:
Date amount instalments monthly 
repaymentRepayment date
25 August 2018 £400 6 up to £138.95 Still outstanding
When Ms M complained to Lending Stream that the loan wasnt affordable it didnt agree. It 
says it was entitled to rely on the information Ms M gave about her income and outgoings, 
and when it did so, it saw that the loan was affordable for her. 
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Ms complaint should not be upheld. She says 
Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for the loan and so it didnt do anything 
wrong. 
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators view and says it shouldnt have lent her the money. 
She says she couldnt afford to make repayments and didnt have enough disposable 
income. As both parties are still not in agreement, the complaint has come to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Lending Stream did a number of checks 
before it lent to Ms M. It asked her for details of her income and her normal expenditure. And 
it then used this information to calculate how much disposable income Ms M had left over 
each month. 
Ms Ms loan was for £400 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the highest repayment amount 
being £138.95. Lending Stream says she told it she was earning £1500 and declared 
expenditure of £600. I can see the monthly repayment was a small proportion of Ms Ms 
declared disposable income, the instalment amount was low, and this was her first loan. So, 
for those reasons, I am satisfied that the checks carried out by Lending Stream for this loan 
were proportionate.
Ms M has said she couldnt afford to make repayments and I acknowledge what she has 
said. But I dont think Lending Stream needed to carry out the sort of checks at this stage in 
the lending relationship that would have shown this. Lending Stream has confirmed that it 
used Credit Reference Agencies as part of its affordability assessment but has not given 
much detail about this. There wasnt any requirement for it to carry out detailed credit checks 
 just that it needed to conduct proportionate checks. And as Ive said above, I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown that the loan was affordable for Ms M based on 
what she told them for the reasons I have already given.
In conclusion, I consider the affordability checks that Lending Stream made on Ms Ms loan 
were proportionate and sufficient. So, I cant say now that it was wrong for Lending Stream 
to give this loan to Ms M. And so, I cant require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 
12 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman