DRN-4133952
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBI) and the 
handling of the claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Mr C has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, and comments made, by either Mrs or Mr 
C as Mr C throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr C held a home insurance policy, underwritten by LBI. Unfortunately, in January 2021, 
there was a fire at Mr Cs home, which resulted in significant damage being caused. Mr C 
appointed a loss assessor, who Ill refer to as E, to manage the claim on his behalf. And so, 
E contacted LBI to make a claim.
E appointed a surveyor to compile a schedule of works. And E and the surveyor tendered 
this work before presenting the tender prices to LBI. LBI agreed to authorise the lowest price 
tender or explained that a higher priced tender could be chosen if Mr C was willing to cover 
the difference, or E was able to negotiate a reduction in price. The lowest priced tender 
contractor, who Ill refer to as X, was chosen to complete the works.
The timeline of events that transpired after this are well known to both Mr C and LBI. So, I 
dont intend to set out exactly what happened in chronological order. But in summary, Mr C 
was unhappy with the condition of his property after X had completed the required works. 
And he was unhappy with LBIs refusal to indemnify and pay for the costs of repairing the 
snagging issues that arose from Xs work unconditionally, as well as the overall service he 
received from LBI during the claim process. So, he raised several complaints, which 
included and were not limited to what Ive detailed above.
LBI responded to Mr Cs complaints on several occasions, not upholding them. In summary, 
LBI thought that they had acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy Mr C held. They 
explained that Mr C entered into a separate contract with E. And, because E appointed the 
surveyor and X to agree and complete the repair works, any issues with the quality of the 
repair works would be responsibility of E to address, rather than themselves. But despite 
this, LBI thought theyd acted more than fairly by attempting to help Mr C, when it was clear 
his relationship with X had broken down. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. They explained that, as Mr C 
had appointed E himself before his claim was made with LBI, LBI couldnt be held 
responsible for the actions of E, or the surveyor and X that E appointed. While they 
recognised Mr C didnt feel this was made clear, they thought this wouldve been the 
responsibility of E to explain, and not LBI. And our investigator was satisfied that LBI had 
covered the costs of the repairs required to fix the damage caused by the original insured 
event. So, they thought any issues regarding the quality of these repairs, and the costs 
needed to rectify this, would be the responsibility of X as it was their workmanship in 
question. And if Mr C did think there were issues that resulted from the fire, and not the poor 
workmanship, our investigator thought LBI were fair to expect to be provided with evidence 
of this, for them to consider under the terms of the policy. So, they didnt think LBI needed to 
do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
But they did think LBI couldve been more proactive when responding to Mr Cs 
communication. And they recognised LBI sent Mr C information relating to a different 
customer, which wouldve been distressing. So, our investigator recommended LBI pay Mr C 
£300 to recognise any upset these issues above caused.
LBI initially disputed this recommendation but after discussion with our investigator, 
accepted it as resolution to the complaint. But Mr C strongly disagreed, providing several 
and extensive reasons explaining why. This included, and is not limited to, Mr Cs continued 
assertion that the policy he held did not make it clear that by appointing E, LBI would not be 
responsible for the work completed by X. And he disputed the fairness of this, as LBI agreed 
for X to be used when presented with the tender options. Mr C maintained his belief that, as 
his contract was with LBI, they should ultimately remain responsible for any costs required to 
ensure his property is returned to its pre-incident condition and so, this is what he expected 
LBI to do. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think its important for me to set out exactly 
what Ive been able to consider within the complaint and crucially, what LBI are responsible 
for. I note Mr C appointed E to manage the claim on his behalf, before a claim was raised 
with LBI. And it was E, acting in that capacity, that appointed surveyors and then X, the 
contractor who undertook the initial repairs.
When Mr C appointed E, he entered into a separate contract, outside of the policy he held 
with LBI. So, I cant hold LBI responsible for the actions of E, as E werent acting on LBIs 
behalf in their role as the insurer. And because of this, LBI are also not responsible for the 
actions of the surveyor and most crucially in this case, the actions of X. While I appreciate 
Mr C says he wasnt made aware of this, I would expect E to make this reasonably clear 
when being appointed, and reaching an agreement to work on behalf of Mr C. I dont think it 
is reasonable to expect LBI to proactively provide Mr C with information surrounding the use 
of E, as I think its fair for LBI to assume E has provided Mr C with the necessary information 
for him to make an informed decision. So, when E raised a claim on Mr Cs behalf, I think 
LBI were fair to assume Mr C understood the potential implications of this.
In this situation, E were ultimately responsible for the managing of the repairs, and the 
quality of these. LBI, in their role as insurer, were only responsible for indemnifying the 
claim, and covering the costs incurred by E, and their agents, when making the repairs. And 
crucially, LBI were only responsible for covering the costs of the repairs required to fix the 
damage caused by the insured event, which in this case was the fire in January 2021. And 
from all the information Ive seen, I think LBI have covered the costs of this.
From what Ive seen, the outstanding costs, and the costs Mr C incurred himself directly, 
were works required to fix the poor workmanship of X. And under the terms of the policy Mr C held with LBI, it explains clearly that LBI wont cover loss or damage caused by faulty 
design or workmanship or using faulty materials. So, I dont think its reasonable to expect 
LBI to cover any of the additional costs Mr C has incurred, unconditionally.
I think its reasonable to assume that had X, working as an agent of E and not LBI, 
completed the repair work to a standard satisfactory to Mr C, then Mr Cs home wouldve 
been returned to its pre-incident condition. So, as I think LBI have covered the costs initially 
quoted to complete this work, I think its reasonable for me to say LBI have acted both fairly 
and reasonably in their role as the insurer. And because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more for this aspect of the complaint. Should further issues arise that Mr C feels is 
down to the original insured event, rather than the fault of X, than Id expect Mr C to present 
this evidence to LBI, so they can assess this against the policy terms.
I understand Mr C will strongly disagree with this conclusion. And I want to reassure Mr C 
Ive considered all of the comments hes raised, even if I dont, and havent, commented on 
them specifically. While I appreciate Mr Cs view regarding the legalities of his contract, and 
a legal ruling he provided from another country, it is not our services role to make legal 
determinations on the validity, or interpretation of, a contract. While we do think about legal 
precedents on occasion, this is only to help us make a decision on whether a business has 
acted fairly and reasonably. And in this situation, I think LBI have.
I also recognise Mr Cs point about LBI agreeing to the tender put forward by X. And that by 
doing so, they agreed to be responsible for Xs actions. But I dont think thats the case here. 
Firstly, LBI did offer Mr C the chance to use another tender, should he wish to cover the 
difference. And I dont think LBI acted unfairly when doing so, as the tender X put forward, 
while the cheapest, was to complete the schedule of work already compiled by the surveyor.
And even if they hadnt done so, LBI werent the business who sourced X to provide a 
tender. This was E. And E did so in their role that was agreed with Mr C under an entirely 
separate contractual agreement. So, when LBI agreed for X to be appointed, I dont think 
this means LBI were agreeing to be responsible for the quality of Xs work. Instead, they 
were agreeing to pay the cost X quoted to complete the works agreed by Es appointed 
surveyor for the initial repair work needed, based on the surveyors recommendations. And 
Im satisfied this is what LBI did. So, these points, and any others raised by Mr C, havent 
impacted the decision Ive reached regarding this issue.
But having reviewed the claim notes, I do think there were occasions where Mr C sought an 
update from LBI, and LBI failed to respond in what I think was a fair and reasonable amount 
of time. Even though some of Mr Cs requests may have been better directed to E, Id still 
expect LBI to respond appropriately and on occasion, I dont think they did. And this is on top 
of LBI sending information regarding other customers claim to Mr C, which LBI have 
accepted was unreasonable. So, I do think LBI acted unfairly and unreasonably at times 
over the claim process and so, Ive turned to what I think LBI should do to put this right. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what LBI should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr C back in the position he shouldve been, had LBI acted fairly. In this 
situation, had LBI acted fairly, I think they wouldve been quicker in responding to Mr Cs 
contact, and paying invoices put to them by E when needed. And I dont think they wouldve 
sent Mr C information intended for another customer.
And had they done so, while I do think Mr C would ultimately be left in the situation regarding 
his claim and his unhappiness with Xs quality of work, I think he wouldve been prevented 
some frustration in feeling like he had to chase LBI for responses. And I think some of the costs LBI were responsible for wouldve been paid sooner, which wouldve no doubt relieved 
some of the anxiety Mr C was no doubt experiencing due to other issues outside of LBIs 
control.
I also think that, by sending Mr C information for another customer, it created the impression 
that there was a lack of care, and attention to detail, with LBIs handling of his insurance 
claim. And I do understand the worry and concern this would create.
Our investigator recommended LBI pay Mr C £300 to recognise the impact Ive outlined 
above, And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think it fairly recognises LBIs failings on more than one occasion, which wouldve no doubt 
made the impact of these failings worse. But I think it also takes into consideration LBIs role 
within the claim process, considering the involvement of E, and reflects the fact that much of 
Mr Cs unhappiness and upset has been caused by events LBI ultimately arent responsible 
for. So, this is a payment Im directing LBI to make.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs C and Mr C a total compensation of £300 to recognise their service failings 
and the incorrect information they were sent relating to a different customer 
altogether.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman