DRN-2405601
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) delayed completing repairs to his 
outside tap, under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr P had an outside tap that was constantly leaking and losing a lot of water. He contacted 
BG in April 2020 to repair the tap. BG told him that it was unable to attend to repair the tap 
as it had classed this repair as non-essential. And following a government directive due to 
Covid 19, it was only prioritising emergency repairs and customers who were vulnerable.
Mr P wasnt happy about this outcome as he said that he fully understood the governments 
directive, but this was no reason for BG not to have carried out the repair. So he raised a 
complaint with BG. 
In its final response, BG said that it had agreed with Mr P to carry out the repairs once the 
governments directives had changed. Mr P wasnt happy about BGs response and referred 
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
concluded that BG hadnt acted unfairly as it had been complying with the government 
directives at the time. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator and he sought proof of the specific government 
directive that prevented BG from completing the repair. When one wasnt forthcoming, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand that may come as a 
disappointment to Mr P, but I hope my findings go some way to explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
My role is to determine whether BG has been reasonable in its dealings with Mr P. In doing 
so I have considered both parties comments and reviewed the policy schedule and terms 
and conditions of the policy. The main aspect of this complaint is whether BG were 
unreasonable to delay carrying out the repair of Mr Ps outside tap. 
Mr Ps policy covered him for both emergencies and non-emergency work on an unlimited 
basis. BG said that it relied upon the following term as well as the governments directive as 
the reason why it couldnt carry out the repair within a reasonable time: Well carry out any 
repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our 
control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and 
give you another time when we can visit. 
I think this clause meant that BG would aim to carry out repairs within a reasonable 
timeframe, unless there was something beyond its control that would make it impossible to 
carry out the repair within that time. Given the restrictions regarding Covid 19, I think it was 
reasonable for BG to rely on this and it carried out the repair as soon as practically possible.
 
BG were asked to provide the specific government directive that allowed it not to prioritise Mr 
Ps repair. This was not provided. Instead it accepted that there was no specific government 
directive that prevented it carrying out the repair. But, I am satisfied that the government had 
announced restrictions and BG was prioritising emergency work and vulnerable people at 
that time. And because of this it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that BG 
ought to have carried out the repairs sooner. 
I understand that BG completed the repairs in May 2020 and Mr P was reimbursed by his 
water company for the excess water loss. Consequently, Mr P hasnt suffered financially as 
a result of BG not being able to repair the leaking tap sooner. I accept that Mr P was 
inconvenienced by the tap not being repaired quicker but given the global pandemic and the 
need for BG to prioritise emergency work, I dont think it was unreasonable for BG to have 
attended at the earliest opportunity possible, which is what it did here. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that BG couldve acted sooner, nor did it deal with 
Mr Ps claim unfairly. As such, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman