DRN-3015667
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her 
irresponsibly because her credit score was too low and other lenders had declined her 
credit.
Miss K has also said the amount she is being asked to be repaid is too much when she only 
borrowed £450.  
What happened
Miss K took two instalment loans from Lending Stream between March and May 2019.  A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending Stream, 
can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
repaymentslargest monthly 
repayment
1 £100.00 14/03/2019 sold 6 £36.51
2 £350.00 06/05/2019 sold 6 £145.17*
*This is the amount Miss K was committed to paying for both loans 1 and 2. 
Miss K had some repayment difficulties and Lending Stream has told this Service it took the 
decision to sell the balances to a third-party collection agency. Who are now responsible or 
collecting the outstanding balances. 
Miss K made a complaint to Lending Stream about her loans. In response Lending Stream 
told her it hadnt made an error when it approved her loans. Unhappy with this response, 
Miss K brought her complaint to this Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ks complaint and concluded that Lending Stream 
hadnt made an error when it provided these loans. He also couldnt see any evidence that 
loan 2 was taken out to repay loan 1, but in any event Miss K had the option to withdraw 
from that agreement. He also concluded that these accounts were defaulted, and notification 
sent to Miss K. 
Lending Stream appear to have accepted the adjudicators findings.  
Miss K disagreed and provided the following points for the adjudicator to consider; 
She had been declined for other lending around this time because her credit 
score was too low, so she isnt clear how Lending Stream couldve approved 
these loans. 
Miss K isnt sure that she is being asked to repay the correct sum of money, 
she says she borrowed a total of £450 so doesnt understand how she can 
owe £828.09.
She says the third-party debt collector has passed the loans back to Lending 
Stream.
The adjudicator responded to Miss Ks points and explained the checks Lending Stream did 
were proportionate and there was no requirement of it to have carried out a credit check. 
Later, he went on to explain that the amount Miss K is being asked to repay is less than 
100% of the amount borrowed (so less than £900) and is therefore under the cost cap put in 
place by the industry regulator. So, he didnt think there was an error with the outstanding 
balance.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided. 
In Miss Ks complaint form, she mentions that she feels harassed by the third party who is 
collecting the outstanding balance. As this is a separate company Miss K will need to raise 
any concerns directly with it, and then if unhappy with any response she may receive she 
could then bring that complaint to this Service. This means, I wont be commenting on the 
actions or processes of the third-party debt collector in this decision. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss K could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Miss K. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint. Loan 1
When Miss K applied for this loan, she told Lending Stream she worked full time and her 
monthly income was £1,500 and she declared her outgoings were £750. Which left a 
monthly disposable income of £750.
Given this was Miss Ks first loan, and the monthly repayment were modest at around £36 
Lending Stream wouldve thought, based on the income and expenditure Miss K provided 
that shed be in a position to afford the monthly repayments. 
Lending Stream completed some additional checks into Miss Ks declared income and 
expenditure with independent sources and a Credit Reference Agency. And it adjusted her 
declared expenditure amount accordingly. This led to Lending Stream recording Miss Ks 
disposable income as £639.50. Which still looked more than sufficient to be able to afford 
the repayments she was committed to paying. 
Lending Stream also carried out a credit check before this loan was approved. Based on the 
information that Lending Stream provided us it knew;
Miss K had 12 active credit accounts  but it wouldnt have known what sort of 
accounts these were so for example payday loans, credit cards, store cards or other 
loans. 
Two accounts had defaulted within the last year. 
It also appears to have been given a credit score, but I cant be sure that this number is what 
was given to Lending Stream or whether it has made adjustments to the score based on the 
other information that it received. So, while the credit score, based on what Lending Stream 
provided appears to be low, this has to be used in the context of the rest of the information 
that Miss K provided and what else it saw in the credit report. 
I accept that Miss Ks credit report wasnt perfect, but that isnt an automatic bar to receiving 
a loan. 
So, based on the credit checks the number of active accounts in itself wouldnt necessarily 
have been problematic, as people can have a range of open accounts covering all sorts of 
types of borrowing, many of which wouldnt flag concerns about financial management. And 
while Lending Stream was aware that there had been some defaults in the previous 12 
months, I think given that this was the first loan, and it was for a relatively small sum that it 
was still reasonable for Lending Stream to lend to Miss K.  
So, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint about loan 1. 
Loan 2
When Miss K applied for loan 2, loan 1 was still outstanding, and Lending Stream needed to 
be mindful of her total monthly commitment to it when deciding whether Miss K would likely 
to be able to afford the repayments based on what a proportionate check may show. For this 
loan (and loan 1) Miss K needed to repay around £145 per month. 
For this loan it seems that Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks that it had 
done for the first loan. Miss K once again declared a monthly income of £1,500 and 
outgoings of £650. However, once Lending Stream carried out its checks it decreased
Miss Ks disposable income to £697.99. This wouldve led Lending Stream to believe that 
Miss K could afford the monthly repayment for loan 2 that she was committed to paying. Lending Stream also carried out a credit check, and it discovered similar information for loan 
2 as it did for loan 1. This isnt surprising considering this loan was agreed a couple of 
months after her first.  So, taking this into account, I still think Lending Streams decision to 
lend was just about reasonable. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss K was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that her full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
either the information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained from 
its credit checks. And it might be that Miss Ks full financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained. 
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on the 
information Lending Stream knew about Miss K, that meant it needed to verify the 
information Miss K was telling it at the time of her loan applications  so I dont think that 
Lending Stream wouldve been in a position to know that Miss K was having financial 
difficulties at the time.
So, I dont think Lending Stream made an error by approving loans 1 and 2.
purpose of loan two
In her complaint form Miss K says that she believed loan 2, was being taken out to repay 
loan 1, and then provide her with further finance. Ive taken a look at the credit agreement 
and I cant see any reference or mention that some of the capital of loan 2 would be going 
towards repaying loan 1. 
And as the adjudicator pointed out, Miss K had the right to withdraw from the loan 
agreement and repay the sum to Lending Stream once she realised the loan wasnt going to 
go towards repaying loan 1. So, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about loan 1 not being 
repaid with loan 2.  
Outstanding balance
In response to the adjudicators assessment its clear that on top of the lending decisions 
that Lending Stream made, Miss K was also unsure as to why she was being chased for 
over £800. 
Ive looked, at the credit agreements because these set out the terms under which Miss K 
was borrowing, this includes explaining the total cost of the credit. For loan 1 Miss K 
borrowed £100, and if she had made each payment in line with the credit agreement, she 
wouldve repaid a total of £200.
And for loan 2, again, if all the repayments had been made on time, Miss K wouldve repaid 
a total of £651 towards a £350 loan. 
So, in total, Miss K owed Lending Stream a total of £851 in order to fully repay these loans.  
Based on the information that Miss K and Lending Stream have provided it seems Miss K 
made one payment of around £36 (towards loan 1).
It is also possible that Lending Stream added extra default charges of £15, this is allowed as 
explained in the terms and conditions within the credit agreements. To me, it seems the 
amount that Miss K is being asked to pay seems reasonable and plausible based on the 
information I have from the credit agreements. repayment 
Lending Stream says the balances of these two loans were sold to a third party to collect  
and it is therefore the responsibility of the third party to collect any outstanding balance. 
Miss Ks most recent email suggest that the third party has passed the accounts back to 
Lending Stream. Ive not confirmed this, but if the loan accounts are now back with Lending 
Stream then Id remind it of its obligation to treat Miss K fairly when dealing with the 
repayment and it will need to take into account any repayments that Miss K has paid to the 
third party. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman