DRN-3945329
The complaint
Mr F is a sole trader, trading as S. He complains about the way that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) handled his account. 
Mr F wants Santander to remove the block that it has placed on the account.
What happened
Santander placed a dormancy block on Mr Fs account as it hadnt been used for more than 
a year. After Mr F asked for the block to be removed in late 2021, Santander sent him a 
confirmation of sole trader form to complete before unblocking his account. Mr F was 
unhappy about this as he says Santander initially agreed to remove the block if he provided 
identification documentation.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Fs complaint be upheld. In summary she said 
that it was reasonable for Santander to block the account after it had been dormant for a 
year. The investigator thought it wouldve been better if Santander had asked Mr F to 
complete the sole trader form sooner but that as S is a business, it couldnt feel frustration. 
The investigator said we wouldnt interfere in Santanders process requiring Mr F to 
complete the form. And that if Mr F was concerned about the information Santander was 
asking him to share, he should take this up with the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO).
Mr F is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says he never received a warning letter. 
Mr F says that Santander is contractually bound to unlock the account having agreed to do 
so if he provided identification.
Mr F says he opened the account in 1991 so doesnt think Santander wouldve had the 
power to block its account and asks to see a copy of the terms and conditions in place at the 
time. 
Mr F doesnt see why he should have to complete an eight-page document just because 
Santander decided to block the account. 
Mr F would like this service to find that Santanders request for information is excessive 
without the need to involve the ICO. Mr F also points out that as a sole trader, he can feel 
distress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I can appreciate Mr Fs frustration with the amount of data Santander asked him to provide. 
But the provision of data and the way its handled, is regulated by the ICO. That is the 
organisation that can consider the legalities of data usage and fine businesses for breaches 
of the Data Protection Act. This isnt something that this service can do.
Instead, Im able to consider whether the service Santander gave Mr F when managing his 
account, was fair and reasonable. If I dont think Santander treated Mr F fairly, I can direct it 
to compensate him for the impact this failure had on him. But I cant made determinations 
about breaches of law. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to treat Mr Fs account as dormant after no 
transactions were made for more than a year. This is in line with the current terms and 
conditions of Mr Fs account, which dont appear to require Santander to give advance notice 
of its intention to apply the dormancy block. Although Mr F opened the account in 1991, the 
terms of his account will be updated from time to time so its not necessary for me to ask for 
the terms which applied back in 1991.
I understand Mr F is unhappy that Santander says it warned him about blocking the account 
when he doesnt think it did. Although Santanders letter of April 2020 doesnt specifically tell 
Mr F that his account will be made dormant, it shouldve reasonably alerted him to the fact 
that he hadnt used the account for some time. And as Ive said  the terms of Mr Fs 
account dont require Santander to give him advance notice of the dormancy. 
Mr F wrote to Santander at the end of October 2021 after he learned that dormancy block 
had been placed on his account. From looking at the complaint history supplied by 
Santander, Mr F then contacted Santander in mid-November 2021. During the call in 
November, Santander explained that Mr F needed to provide further details and followed this 
up the next day with a letter enclosing the sole trader confirmation form. I appreciate this 
was frustrating for Mr F after hed expected the dormancy block to be removed sooner but 
Santander took a commercial decision to request this information. 
This service wouldnt usually interfere in the exercise of a businesses commercial discretion 
but I can consider whether Santander made that decision fairly. Overall, I dont find it was 
unreasonable for Santander to ask for further information about Mr Fs business to comply 
with its regulatory requirements to know its customer. Particularly after Mr F hadnt used the 
account for an extended period. I also dont consider that Santander shouldve been 
prevented from asking for this information just because it hadnt done so previously.
Although a member of staff previously told Mr F that Santander would unblock the account if 
he provided identification, I dont find this means a binding contract was formed when Mr F 
complied. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but overall, I dont find Santander has acted unreasonably so I 
dont require it to take any steps in response to his complaint or to pay any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F trading as S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman