DRN-3408549
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the rejection of his claim by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some allegedly 
mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC) who brought a complaint 
on his behalf to Barclays. In 2016, Mr P bought a solar panel system from a supplier, that Ill 
call S, for just over £5,000. He paid for part of this purchase on his Barclays credit card.
The CMC has told us that Mr P was led to believe by S salesperson that the panels would 
fund themselves and cost him nothing. The CMC has referred to the panels paying for 
themselves over the term of the loan, although unlike a lot of solar panel complaints that 
come to us, there was no loan here, just the credit card payment.
The CMC has also said that Mr P was told, amongst other things, that: hed get Feed-in-
Tariff (FIT) payments monthly; pressurised sales tactics were used; he wasnt told about any 
cooling off period; he was confused by the jargon used by S; and there would be no 
maintenance required for 25 years  although the inverter will likely need replacing at least 
once over that period.
Barclays declined Mr Ps claim. It said that the panels appeared to be performing in line with 
the estimates and there was no evidence that any misrepresentations had been made.
Our investigator looked into everything, but also didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He too couldnt say that it was more likely than not that a misrepresentation had been made. 
The panels will, on the CMCs calculation, pay for themselves in around 17 years. So, they 
will in effect be self-funding during their expected lifetime.
The CMC didnt agree. They said that Mr P had believed what hed been told verbally and 
hadnt seen any need to scrutinise the paperwork. They thought that it would be fair to 
expect the system to be self-funding over a 10-year period. They asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So, the matter has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I agree with our investigator, for substantially similar 
reasons, that this isnt a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Barclays appears to have accepted that this is a complaint to which Section 75 of the Act 
applies. And in that way, it is responsible for any misrepresentations made by S. But I need 
to be satisfied that Mr S was told something that was untrue. And that this induced him to 
buy the panels when he otherwise wouldnt have. I also need to find that hes made a loss.
The CMC has referred in their letter of claim to the panels being self-funding over the term of 
the loan. As there is no loan here, this doesnt help me decide what Mr P was told. Mr P 
says that if hed known the panels would take so long to pay for themselves, he wouldnt 
have bought them. Our investigator asked to speak to Mr P so he could better understand 
what had happened at the sales meeting with S. But that request was declined. So, there is 
very little to go on as to what happened at that meeting.
I appreciate that Mr P says that he was told the panels would pay for themselves more 
quickly that the CMCs estimate of 17 years. But the paperwork from the time of the sale, 
indicates quite clearly that the first years return for FIT, export payments and electricity 
savings will be around £264. So that does indicate that the panels will take quite some time 
to pay for themselves. And Ive not been provided with any evidence to say that the 
predicted income and savings havent been achieved.
The panels do appear to be performing better than the predictions made in the MCS 
certificate. So, there doesnt appear to be anything wrong with them. And I cant therefore 
say that there has been any breach of contract for which Barclays may be liable.
The CMC has said that pressurised sales tactics were used, although the only evidence 
given is that the salesperson was in Mr Ps house for over two hours. Solar panel system 
sales often take around that amount of time. Theres a lot to talk about, a survey needs to be 
carried out and the benefits need to be discussed. So, I dont think that two hours is unusual, 
and I havent found sufficient evidence that anything untoward happened here. I also cant 
say that the reference to Mr C not being told of a cooling off period means that Barclays 
should have any liability. There was no fixed term loan here and Mr P doesnt appear to 
have raised any concerns until this claim was brought some five years after the initial sale.
The CMC thinks Mr S should have been told about the likelihood he may need a new 
inverter for the solar system. And they say that he was told there would be no maintenance. 
But Mr P hasnt had any problems with the system to date  and if he does then he can go 
back to Barclays for help if necessary, as S is no longer trading. Ive also not seen any 
evidence that the inverter is on the brink of failing. And whilst inverters do generally need to 
be replaced at least once during the 25-year lifespan of the panels, Mr P will continue to 
make savings from the panels once theyre paid off. So, this should compensate him for any 
additional maintenance costs that he may incur.
The CMC has also said that Mr P was told hed get FIT payments monthly. FIT is normally 
paid quarterly and I whilst have no reason to disbelieve Mr P about this, I cant see that hes 
suffered any loss through getting the money quarterly rather than monthly. 
I completely understand why Mr P is unhappy about how long the panels will take to pay for 
themselves. But without evidence that he was told a specific period over which theyd be 
self-funding, I cant find that theres any misrepresentation for which Barclays might be 
responsible.
The CMC says we should assume a 10-year period. Some solar systems pay for themselves 
over that length of time, others dont. And theres no set assumption that we make about 
how long this should take, where the evidence doesnt indicate a specific period. The panels 
here will likely pay for themselves during their lifespan  the CMC says 17 years. So, they 
are effectively self-funding and Mr P will accordingly not suffer a loss. I also havent found 
any other reason why this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman