DRN-3231306
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance limited hasnt agreed to pay her full 
claim for damaged carpets, under her home contents insurance policy.
Mrs K is represented by her son Mr K in this complaint.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs K experienced a problem with her heating system where radiators were 
leaking. The system was replaced in full by the housing association responsible for the 
accommodation where she lives. Mr K initially thought the carpets damaged by the leaks 
would also be dealt with by the housing association. But it later confirmed the contents were 
Mrs Ks responsibility. 
Mr K contacted Lloyds around two weeks after the problem was noticed. He wanted it to be 
aware that if the housing association didnt cover the cost of repairs, a claim would be made 
through the policy with Lloyds.
Lloyds says that Mr K only notified it of damage to the hall and lounge carpets when he first 
made contact. Its adviser said cover for carpets would be provided up to the natural break 
(door bars). Mr K later advised that the bedroom carpets were also damaged but by this 
point the carpets had been replaced with new ones. Lloyds says it wasnt given the 
opportunity to inspect the damage to validate the claim, as required by its policy terms.   
Lloyds paid the claim for damage to the hall and lounge carpets but declined the claim for 
the bedroom carpets. 
Mr K says replacement carpets were needed throughout his mothers home due to the fault 
with the central heating system. He says the repairs were required promptly due to his 
mothers age and health condition. Mr K thought Lloyds should pay for the bedroom carpets, 
and that the payment received for the hall and lounge carpets was inadequate. Because 
Lloyds didnt agree he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He says the claim didnt initially include the 
bedroom carpets. And as Mr K replaced the carpets without informing Lloyds of this, or 
allowing the opportunity to inspect the damage, he thought it acted fairly in declining this part 
of the claim. He also thought Lloyds had shown that its settlement payment was fair based 
on the measurements provided by Mr K. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr K but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether Mr K has shown that his mother had a valid claim for 
the damaged bedroom carpets under one of the insured events covered by the policy terms. 
The policy terms under the section Claims conditions say:
If you or your family do not follow these conditions, you will break a condition of your policy 
which may result in non-payment of all or part of your claim.
And:
Proof of loss or damage:
Do not throw away any damaged items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry 
out any non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them.
You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. To assist with this we may request 
you to provide reasonable additional information at your own expense. Examples are:
 Original purchase receipts, valuations, invoices, instruction booklets, bank statements or 
photographs;
 Purchase dates of lost or damaged items;
 For damaged items, confirmation by a suitably qualified expert that the item you are 
claiming for is beyond repair.
Lloyds says Mr K arranged for carpets to be fitted throughout the property. It says he sent 
two quotes and some photos in June 2021. Lloyds says it was able to validate the damage 
to the lounge and hall carpets from the photos supplied. But only one photo of a bedroom 
carpet was sent, which showed minor staining. Lloyds says there was no evidence of 
damage to the other bedroom. And by this time the carpets had been disposed of so it 
couldnt inspect further.
Mr K says his mother is elderly and in sheltered accommodation. Because of the pandemic 
he says no inspection couldve taken place by Lloyds.
I have thought about what the policy terms say along with Mr Ks comments concerning his 
mothers circumstances.
I acknowledge Mr Ks comments that the damage had to be repaired quickly because of his 
mothers age and because she is partially sighted. I accept this must have been a difficult 
and worrying time for Mrs K and understand why Mr K wanted this resolved quickly. But the 
policy terms are clear that damaged items should not be disposed of before Lloyds can 
inspect and substantiate any losses. 
Lloyds was able to validate the claim for the hall and lounge carpets based on the photos 
supplied. I dont dispute Mr Ks point about an inspection not being possible. But its likely 
the damage could have been shown using photos. Having considered the information I think 
Lloydss view is persuasive that insufficient evidence of damage to the bedroom carpets has 
been shown. There is one photo showing a small area of staining under a radiator in one 
bedroom. But I dont think Lloyds view is unreasonable that this staining could have been 
restored by cleaning.      
I have listened to the call when Mr K first contacted Lloyds toward the end of May 2021. He 
says the hall and lounge carpet were damaged. And Lloyds call handler tells him the carpets 
will be covered up to the door bar, meaning the boundary between rooms. Mr K doesnt mention the bedroom carpets as part of the claim.
Im glad Mrs K was able to have her heating system and damaged floorboards replaced by 
her housing association. But having considered the evidence Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
treated her unfairly by declining to pay for replacement bedroom carpets. This is because 
Lloyds wasnt made aware of this claim until after the opportunity to validate the damage had 
been lost. In the circumstances I think Mr K could reasonably have arranged for this to 
happen in line with the policy terms.
I have also thought about Mr Ks claim that the payment provided for the hall and lounge 
carpets was inadequate. From the information provided, the cost of the replacement carpet 
was based on the measurements Mr K supplied. I note his comments that there will have 
been some wastage due to the size of roll the carpet had to be cut from. But from the 
information Lloyds provided it calculated the cost based on the same industry standard 
carpet roll widths as Mr Ks contractor. 
Based on this information I dont think Mr K has shown that Lloyds miscalculated the costs 
involved. Its also the case that an insurer will often have a relationship with its contractors, 
which allows for discounted rates. As Lloyds didnt arrange for the carpets to be fitted, I 
dont think it has acted unfairly here in calculating the payment it provided.      
In considering all of this, I think Lloyds acted fairly in relying on its policy terms when 
declining the claim for replacement bedroom carpets. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman