DRN-3835163
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr F was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In August 2017 Mr F met with D C Financial and it 
completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. In summary this recorded that Mr F was 43 years old; he was 
working full-time; he was single but due to marry in 2018; he owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage of around £95,000 with a remaining term of 21 years; he had an 
investment property, which also had a mortgage of around £66,000 remaining and this 
provided him with a monthly income of around £450 a month; and he had cash savings of 
around £1,500. D C Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk, which 
it deemed to be cautious to moderate.
On 29 August 2017 D C Financial issued its formal written advice and it recommended Mr F 
transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in 
investment funds, which D C Financial deemed matched Mr Fs attitude to risk. In summary 
the reasons for the recommendation were to provide flexible income; to provide the ability for 
Mr F to retire early and suffer no reductions; to provide better death benefits; and a transfer 
would avoid the fund entering the PPF.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr Fs pension transfer completed in December 2017 and around £253,000 was received 
into the new personal pension.
Mr F complained to D C Financial in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice  Mr F 
believed hed lost out as a result of the advice he received.
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In summary it said the advice was suitable and 
in Mr Fs best interests having regard for his stated needs and objectives. It said it provided 
Mr F with clear advice setting out the risks and benefits of transferring to ensure that Mr F 
was both aware of and comfortable with the risk of transferring away from the guaranteed 
benefits his DB scheme provided.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr F asked this service to consider his complaint.
In submitting its business file to us, D C Financial provided a substantive accompanying 
note, which I have read in full. But in summary it said it said the BSPS2 did not exist at the 
time, so it couldnt have recommended Mr F transfer to it. It said it doesnt think the critical 
yield and whether this was achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at 
suitability. If the critical yield was considered, it said the only relevant comparison would be 
to the PPF. But it didnt think critical yields were relevant as Mr F didnt intend to purchase 
an annuity, so the comparison is flawed. It said the past performance and what had 
happened since the advice, which shouldnt be disregarded, showed that the level of growth 
was achievable. It said the growth had exceeded the critical yield against the PPF at age 65. 
But it said in any event, even if the growth achieved through transferring meant the benefits 
of the new pension were the same as, or even slightly less than the DB scheme, the advice 
would still have been suitable as it provided Mr F with flexibility. Overall it said it still felt that 
the recommendation to transfer was suitable as it allowed Mr F to achieve his goals and 
avoid moving to the PPF. It also argued that it was not responsible for any losses caused by 
bad investment advice. Finally it said if the ombudsman concludes that the advice wasnt 
suitable, it wants a provisional decision issued with an opportunity to consider and respond 
to before a final decision is reached.
An investigator considered the complaint and upheld it and said D C Financial should pay 
Mr F compensation. In summary they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They 
said, given the growth rate required to match Mr Fs scheme benefits, the opportunity to 
match them let alone exceed them was unlikely. They also didnt think there were other 
compelling reasons for the transfer  for example they said there was nothing to show Mr F 
needed flexibility given he had no firm plans or objectives for retirement and his income need 
wasnt known. But they noted that Mr Fs workplace scheme would have provided him with 
some flexibility if thats what he ultimately needed. They said better or different death 
benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over providing Mr F with an income in retirement  a 
protection couldve provided death benefits at a lower cost than transferring. And Mr Fs 
concerns about the scheme could have been allayed if D C Financial had waited for the 
BSPS2 details and used this in formulating its advice. They said if suitable advice had been 
given Mr F wouldve remained in the occupational scheme and given his age and length to 
retirement he wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
D C Financial disagreed. In summary, it said it didnt accept the advice was negligent. It also 
commented on a few key points from the investigators assessment: it repeated its argument 
that the BSPS2 was not certain to go ahead at the time and that the PPF was the more likely 
option; it said Mr F only had until mid-October 2017 to accept his CETV quote; it disagrees 
the cost of transferring benefits was higher than the cost of a protection policy, which given 
Mr Fs circumstances and because the sum assured would have to be at least equivalent to 
the transfer value, would have been very expensive; and it doesnt accept that Mr Fs 
capacity for loss was weak given the equity he had in his properties.
Mr Fs representatives largely accepted the investigators findings. But they said they didnt
think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to account
for income tax was fair as this didnt account for charges Mr F has incurred through the 
personal pension.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
Id firstly like to briefly address the point D C Financial made about the fact the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously undertook a review of its advice process in 
relation to members of the BSPS and they didnt highlight any concerns. It said, whilst the 
advice was tailored for each matter, it applied a consistent approach to determining 
suitability and recording its advice. So it has questioned how our service can come to a 
different conclusion that the transfer advice was unsuitable.
My role and that of our service is different to that of the FCA. My role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of a complaint - not a business processes and practices as a whole 
- and decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
taking into account the considerations I listed above. And that is what Ive done here.
I can also see that D C Financial has requested that I issue a provisional decision on this 
case before I make a final decision. 
But I dont think I need to do so. Having considered everything provided by both sides, Im 
upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. Im not 
persuaded that any of the arguments raised by D C Financial in its submission after the 
investigators assessment are new. And Im satisfied that the investigator addressed these themes fully in their opinion letters. Im also not making my decision based on any new 
information provided by Mr F. So, it follows that I can issue a final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D C 
Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded that it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
D C Financial carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Fs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits. But on 11 August 2017 during the advice process and before D C Financial 
issued its formal written advice to Mr F, the BSPS trustees announced that it had formally 
agreed terms for separating the pension scheme, and that if the Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) was approved  expected on 11 September 2017 - scheme members 
would have a choice -  either move into the new BSPS2 or remain in the existing scheme 
and move with it to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option. So analysis of that
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr F. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the  
announcement, D C Financial shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and based 
the analysis and its advice on the BSPS2 instead so Mr F had all the relevant information to 
make an informed decision.
I can see that D C Financial has argued that BSPS2 was very far from being a certainty at 
the time of the advice, so the only comparison it could provide was the benefits available to 
Mr F through the PPF. And I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But I think 
the available information from the scheme trustees indicated it would go ahead. 
I can also see that D C Financial has argued that time was limited  Mr F only had until mid-
October to accept his CETV. But as part of the announcement I referred to above, it said  
members who were already in receipt of an unexpired transfer value quotation would 
automatically be provided with an updated quotation taking into account any decrease in the 
underfunding reduction. It said these would be available by October 2017, have a guarantee 
period until 4 December 2017 and would supersede any existing quotations. And I can see 
D C Financials suitability letter referred to this. While D C Financial has also argued the 
transfer quote might have been lower, which I accept was possible, the injection of capital 
into the BSPS through the RAA was going to have a positive impact on its funding position, 
so the likelihood was the values would be higher to take account of this. And this was 
something the scheme trustee information available at the time indicated was likely.
 
So I still think it was reasonable for D C Financial to delay its advice until the BSPS2 details 
were available, so it could take the benefits available to Mr F through the BSPS2 into 
account in formulating its advice, so that he was able to make a properly informed decision. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr F was 43 at the time of the advice and the paperwork records that his preferred 
retirement age was 55  although reference was also made to 57, which I think was because 
of legislation changes due to increase the minimum retirement age to 57.The TVAS dated 
10 August 2017 set out the relevant critical yields in relation to Mr Fs BSPS scheme 
benefits; at age 65 it was 6.25% if Mr F took a full pension and at age 55 it was 8.83%. The 
critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 were 4.41% 
assuming Mr F took a full pension and 4.06% if he took tax free cash and a reduced 
pension. The TVAS didnt provide the critical yields at age 55.
But as I said above, Mr F remaining in the existing BSPS scheme wasnt an option at the 
time of the advice. So, the advice shouldve been delayed to take account of the critical 
yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 
wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat, so I think they wouldve been 
somewhere between those of the BSPS and the PPF - but closer to the BSPS.
This compares with the discount rate of 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement (to age 55) 
and 4.5% per year for 21 years to retirement (to age 65) in this case. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5% and 
the lower projection rate 2%.
 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Fs
recorded cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, 
and contrary to D C Financials view, there would be little point in Mr F giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the critical yield assuming Mr F took a full pension at 55 (the retirement age the 
advice appears to have predicated on) was 8.83% through the existing scheme. 
Unfortunately D C Financial didnt produce a figure based on Mr F taking a full pension at 55 
through the PPF. But if Mr F were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 55, I 
think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between that of the PPF (had it been 
provided) and the existing scheme, but closer to the existing scheme of 8.83%. Given this 
rate was significantly above both the discount rate and the regulators upper projection rate, I 
think Mr F was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by 
the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with his 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk.
 
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the 
benefits provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, would have required 
Mr F to take a substantially higher level of investment risk than he indicated he was prepared 
to take. And even then I think hed still be no better off as a result of transferring.
While the advice was geared towards a retirement age of 55, the critical yield assuming Mr F 
took a full pension at age 65 though the existing scheme was 6.25%. So I dont think the 
situation was any different here  I think Mr F wouldve been worse off in retirement as a 
result. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr F wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
Unfortunately, as I said above, D C Financial didnt produce critical yields based on Mr F 
taking benefits through the PPF at age 55. At age 65 the critical yield was 4.41% assuming 
Mr F took a full pension and 4.06% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
So at age 55 I think they wouldve likely been higher than those at 65 given the shorter investment period and the longer period the benefits would potentially be in payment. Given 
this, it seems likely to me that the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the 
PPF was limited if Mr F transferred out of the BSPS.
So given Mr F was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension (and at best, broadly the same as those provided though the PPF at age 
65) for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr Fs best 
interests.
D C Financial has said that during the time it managed Mr Fs pension, it achieved an
annualised growth of 5.65% which is 1.24% in excess of the critical yield for the PPF. But not 
only is this based on the critical yield at age 65 when the advice was predicated on a 
retirement age of 55, as D C Financial knows, past performance is no guarantee for future
performance. Im also mindful that D C Financials opinion at the time, as set out in the 
suitability letter, was that the critical yields werent realistically achievable. So I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over a long period of 
time. 
I can see that D C Financial says that the critical yield should not be a substantive 
consideration when looking at whether advice was suitable. It also says the critical yield is of 
limited relevance because it is based on the growth required to produce a fund large enough 
to purchase an annuity and Mr F didnt want an annuity. But crucially the regulator required  
D C Financial to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the 
critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr F 
could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 12 years and perhaps 
longer. Its entirely possible that Mr F would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
D C Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable and in Mr Fs best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive 
considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
The key reason D C Financials appears to have recommended Mr F transfer out of the 
BSPS was to provide with Mr F with flexibility  the ability to have a flexible income and to be 
able to retire at 55 without reduction.
But I dont think Mr F knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
While Mr T was 43 and it wouldnt be unreasonable for him to start to think about his 
retirement, based on what Ive seen, he didnt have any concrete retirement plans  in fact I 
dont think he had any real plan. And I think this is supported by whats recorded in the 
advice paperwork where it say that despite Mr Fs preferred retirement age of 55, he was 
prepared to work for longer if his pension income wasnt sufficient. So it strikes me that, like 
most consumers, if asked, Mr F liked the idea of retiring early. But I dont think it was a 
specific or firm objective of Mr Fs.
Ive not seen anything to show or suggest Mr F had a specific need for variable income 
throughout retirement or that he needed access to a lump sum and delay taking an income 
at age 55. So again, when asked, Mr F mightve indicated he liked the idea of taking a lump 
sum and delay taking an income, but I dont think this had been decided.D C Financial said in its defence of the advice when it submitted its business file that Mr F 
would have maximum flexibility by transferring his pension, meaning he could access tax-
free cash without having to draw income, and this could be used to clear any mortgages. But 
theres no evidence using tax-free cash to repay Mr Fs mortgages was discussed at the 
time  theres nothing to this effect in the suitability report. Ill come back to this point later 
on.
Overall, I dont think Mr F a genuine need for flexibility at the time. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr F to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt 
reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
 
D C Financials advice paperwork refers to Mr F being concerned about the DB schemes 
penalty for early retirement being too high and how a transfer would enable Mr F to retire 
early and suffer no reductions. I think what the adviser was referring to here was the 
actuarial reduction that would apply to Mr Fs DB scheme, or the PPF, if he took his benefits 
early at age 55. The TVAS report estimated that if Mr F took a full pension under the existing 
scheme at age 65 his starting pension would be £17,589 a year. And at age 55 his starting 
pension would be £9,603. Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 
these figures would be lower, but in my view still close to these figures. Both would continue 
to escalate while in payment. Under the PPF Mr Fs starting pension at age 65 was 
estimated to be £14,422  no figure was provided at age 55. 
An actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The 
starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the 
normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by taking an income at age 55 
Mr F wouldve been receiving his pension for 10 years longer. So its a trade-off, not a 
penalty. In my view the word penalty implies the DB scheme was inferior when in simple 
terms, it meant that Mr F couldnt have the same pension he was due at 65 at age 55  hed 
have to accept less because it would potentially be paid for longer. And I think this shouldve 
been better and more fairly explained to Mr F. Had it done so, I think its likely Mr F would 
have been less concerned than D C Financial has suggested.
Likewise while taking benefits flexibly under a personal pension would allow Mr F to decide 
the level of his income without penalty, the amount he could take was entirely dependent on 
the sum available under the pension plan. And what Mr F took would deplete the plan  so it 
would not be without consequence as he might be left with less than he needed later on.
And this leads me back to the point D C Financial made about Mr F using his tax-free cash 
entitlement to clear any outstanding mortgages at the time. As I said above, theres nothing 
in the advice paperwork to this effect, or that Mr Fs mortgage liabilities were considered in 
the advice to determine how realistic Mr F retiring at 55 was. At 55 Mr F would still likely 
have balances outstanding on both his home and investment property. But Ive not seen 
anything to indicate Mr F needed to clear his mortgage at this time. Yet if the advice was 
based on Mr F retiring at 55 and using his tax-free cash to clear his mortgages, not only 
should this have been referred to in the written advice, but I wouldve also expected 
D C Financial to have carried out analysis to determine what effect taking a lump sum to 
clear his debts at 55 would have on Mr Fs pension fund and its ability to sustain his required 
income throughout his retirement. Because D C Financial didnt do this, I dont think the 
advice was properly considered and Mr F wasnt in a fully informed position.
Turning to Mr Fs income need  its clear that Mr F didnt know what his income need in 
retirement was. In the fact-find its recorded that Mr Fs estimated income requirement was 
60-65% of his current income. But the suitability report said: You are not currently sure what 
level of income you will require in retirement as you are not close to retirement. 
 Firstly I dont think the fact-find is very clear about what Mr Fs current income was and so 
what the estimated 60-65% was based on. For example, its recorded that Mr Fs annual 
salary was £35,000, he was entitled to a bonus of £800 a month, he had £450 a month in 
rental income, yet his net monthly income was only £2,100. Secondly no detailed 
expenditure in retirement analysis was carried out by D C Financial to determine whether
Mr Fs estimated income requirement was realistic or achievable. Its also not clear to me 
whether this estimate was based on Mr F still having his mortgages or not.
Furthermore D C Financial did not ascertain Mr Fs plans for his investment property and 
how this featured in his retirement income plans / need  did he intend to keep the property 
when he retired? If so, this would continue to provide him with an income, which once the 
mortgage was repaid (D C Financial didnt record the mortgage term) would increase his net 
income by the full rental amount recorded as being £450 at the time. Or did Mr F intend to 
sell the property and use the equity to help fund his retirement instead? With a recorded 
value at the time of £95,000 this was a not insignificant amount Mr F could use to 
supplement his income if he decided to sell it.
In addition I dont think D C Financial properly considered the role Mr Fs workplace DC 
pension could play in his future income generation  it simply acknowledged he had it, 
quoted the contribution rate and said this could be available to top up his income. But given 
there was at least 12 years until Mr F was thinking about retirement  and likely more  at a 
combined employer and employee contribution rate of 16% of Mr Fs salary, at age 55 and 
without accounting for any growth, salary increases or Mr F increasing his contributions, he 
would likely have a fund of around £67,000. At age 65 if Mr F continued to work, this could 
be worth more than £123,000. And Mr F couldve used this fund to draw on flexibly by taking 
income and/or lump sums to supplement his income until his state pension became payable 
to meet his income need. So I think its also the case that Mr F didnt have to sacrifice 
flexibility in any event by retaining his DB scheme benefits.
Ultimately, D C Financial had to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed 
benefits available through his DB scheme was in Mr F's best interest. And as part of this, I 
think it was necessary to carry out a proper assessment of Mr Fs income needs taking 
account of all things Ive described above. This wouldve allowed D C Financial to help Mr F 
understand how realistic it was for him to retire early and the information and opportunity to 
factor this into his future retirement plans. As I said, Mr Fs retirement plans werent 
formulated at this time and hed also indicated he was prepared to work for longer if needed. 
By not doing this, I dont think it was possible for D C Financial to say or to demonstrate that 
Mr F couldnt still likely meet his future retirement income need by retaining his DB scheme 
benefits. So I dont think D C Financial did act in Mr Fs best interests and I dont think he 
was therefore able to make an informed decision.
Overall, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. Mr Fs plans werent known or formulated at this time - he didnt know what his 
needs in retirement would be. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr F to 
give up his guaranteed benefits now just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really 
needed at the time. If Mr F later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, which the 
BSPS2 wouldve allowed, he couldve done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
The advice paperwork records that Mr F was concerned about the inflexible death benefits 
of the existing scheme. It said after the 50% spouses pension, it ceases and Mr F wanted to 
pass on any unused pension fund to his children.Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr F. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr F might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr F about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy provision tool. And I dont think
D C Financial explored to what extent Mr F was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr F 
was engaged to be married - so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme 
wouldve been useful to his future spouse if Mr F predeceased her. I dont think D C 
Financial made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr F. This was guaranteed and 
escalated  the spouses pension under the BSPS2 would also be calculated as if no tax-
free cash had been taken. Furthermore, it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was  so if investment returns 
were poor and/or Mr F lived a long life, there may not have been a large sum left, if any at 
all, to pass on when he died. In any event, D C Financial should not have encouraged Mr F 
to prioritise the potential for higher or different death benefits through a personal pension 
over his security in retirement.
Furthermore D C Financial recorded that Mr F had death-in-service cover through his 
employer if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits available, 
which he could nominate his future spouse to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it 
also knew that Mr F was paying into his workplace DC pension scheme and he wouldve 
been able to nominate his future spouse and/or child as beneficiaries of this plan too  again 
if he hadnt already done so. 
But if Mr F genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family over and above that which was 
already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think D C Financial shouldve instead explored 
additional life insurance. I can see that D C Financial suggests this wouldve been 
prohibitively expensive because of Mr Fs circumstances and because the sum assured 
would have to be at least equivalent to the transfer value. But I disagree  basing the sum 
assured on the transfer value of Mr Fs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would 
pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr F wanted 
to leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse and / or child, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr F how much he would ideally like to leave to his family,  
after taking into account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. I think 
this was a viable alternative and one D C Financial shouldve properly explored. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr F. And I dont think D C 
Financial did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr F to meet this 
objective.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
D C Financials advice paperwork says Mr F was concerned about the future of the DB 
scheme and he was concerned about entering the PPF and losing flexibility.I have no doubt that Mr F was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension 
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So 
its quite possible that Mr F was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was D C Financials 
obligation to give Mr F an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed likely the BSPS2 was going to 
go ahead. So I think D C Financial shouldve delayed its advice and waited for the details of 
the BSPS2 so it could properly take the benefits available to Mr F through the BSPS2 into 
account. And I think this wouldve alleviated Mr Fs concerns about the scheme moving to 
the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, and the scheme 
moved to the PPF, I think that D C Financial shouldve reassured Mr F that the scheme 
moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. As I set out 
Mr F didnt have any real retirement plans. But I think the income available to Mr F through 
the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his other means could supplement to 
likely meet his income need at retirement. Importantly he was also unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr F 
might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons Ive set out 
earlier, I dont think Mr F wouldve needed to. So I dont think that Mr Fs concerns shouldve 
led to D C Financial recommending he transfer out of the DB schemes altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr F was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr F. But D C Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr F might 
have thought he wanted or sounded like a good idea. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr F needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF at a 
time when I dont think his retirement plans were in any way formulated. By transferring to a 
personal arrangement Mr F was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits at his 
retirement age. And I dont think there were any other particular or compelling reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Fs best interests for 
him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think D C Financial shouldve advised Mr F that he should not transfer the benefits of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. And if things had happened as they 
should have and D C Financial had waited until the details of the BSPS2 had been known 
before formulating its advice, I think it shouldve recommended that Mr F opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But I think 
everything pointed to it going ahead. Because Mr Fs retirement plans were not set in stone 
and he said he was prepared to continue to work beyond 55 if needed, I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr F wouldve retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if he needed to. Also, because Mr F was 
due to be married, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of 
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr F chose 
to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr F would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice. D C Financial says that, considering Mr F was fully aware of the benefits 
he was sacrificing and bearing in mind the objectives he was keen to achieve, even if theyd 
recommended against transferring, he wouldve continued with the transfer as an insistent 
client.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr F wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. I say this because, while 
Mr F was motivated to transfer when he approached D C Financial, on balance, I still think 
he wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened as they 
should have. Mr F was not an experienced investor who, in my view possessed the 
necessary skill, knowledge or confidence to go against the advice they were given, 
particularly in complex pension matters. So, if D C Financial had provided Mr F with clear 
advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Fs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If D C 
Financial had properly considered Mr Fs retirement income and expenditure need and 
explained that he could likely meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr F would have insisted on 
transferring out of his scheme against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr F. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mr F. Taking everything into account, including that Mr F is now at the age when his 
retirement provision is of increasing importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has 
caused him some distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
I can see that D C Financial says that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses as a result of 
any subsequent bad investment advice  a reference I believe to any losses stemming from 
those investments after it ceased managing Mr Fs pension investment. But the investments 
would not have arisen at all were it not for D C Financials unsuitable advice. 
So, in the circumstances I dont think it is fair to conclude that D C Financials responsibility 
for any loss Mr F has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice he received should be 
capped at the point it ended its ongoing servicing agreement with Mr F.Finally I've thought about Mr F's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from 
any redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr F would've paid had this been taken as
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr F
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr F for the impact of the unsuitable advice he
received.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr F whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr F has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr F. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the D C Financial to put Mr F, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for D C Financials unsuitable advice. If suitable 
advice had been given, Mr F would most likely have opted into the BSPS2. So it is the 
benefits under the BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr F has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Fs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date D C Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay 
Mr F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, D C Financial should pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenienced caused 
in this matter.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
D C Financial pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman