DRN-4465934
The complaint
Mr O complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy after his car was hit by a third party. 
What happened
Mr O had fully comprehensive car insurance with UKI. The policy ran from February 2021 to 
February 2022. 
Mr O was involved in a road traffic accident in June 2021. He says the third party went into 
the rear of his vehicle. 
Mr O says he was waiting to be contacted by UKI since the third party was attempting to 
challenge liability. Mr O says he contacted UKI for updates on numerous occasions but 
never received a call back, despite being assured someone would.
Mr O complained to UKI in December 2022. Mr O says hes since found out that UKI had 
accepted 50/50 liability for the accident, without any consultation with him. He says UKI 
accept it shouldnt have settled the claim in the way it did and agreed to try to recover the 
cost of repairs to his vehicle. 
Mr O says the claim has impacted him both emotionally and financially. The cost of his policy 
was affected since the incident was recorded as a fault claim. Mr O says he was involved in 
a separate accident the previous year and also two non-fault accidents which have also 
contributed to the increase in his policy premium. Mr O also drives for work so trying to 
obtain insurance for that was difficult which caused him a lot of stress. He wants UKI to 
compensate him for the excessive premium hes paid over the past two years, and also for 
the stress and inconvenience caused to him and his family. 
UKI accept there were delays in the claim progression and Mr O had to make multiple calls 
to obtain updates. It said to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused it paid him 
£350. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the response from UKI so he referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said there had been 
delays that UKI had acknowledged but the compensation offered didnt go far enough. So 
recommended a payment of £700 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
UKI didnt agree with the level of compensation offered. It said whilst there were delays 
some of those were caused by the third-party insurer. It also said it hadnt dealt with any 
personal injury claim since liability remained an issue. So it increased its offer of 
compensation to a total of £500. Mr O accepted this amount as he believed it was in addition 
to the £350 hed already received. Mr O wasnt happy with the offer and so the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr O. I can 
understand why he thought it would be a straightforward claim given the nature of the 
accident, and that would be enough to show the third party was at fault. And so when the 
claim wasnt settled as quickly as he expected I think it would have both shocked and upset 
him. 
Its not for me to decide who was responsible for the accident or how the claim should be 
handled. It is important to explain my role here is to look at whether UKI acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and within the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the 
claim. Im not able to look at the actions of the third-party insurer. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Not kept up to date throughout the claims process
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. UKI accept the claim wasnt dealt with as it should 
have been. There were delays in progressing the claim and a lack of communication
Mr O feels he wasnt kept updated throughout the claim. He did chase for an update on 
occasion and I can see at least one instance where he was told someone would call back 
but they didnt. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr O made numerous calls to UKI 
chasing updates. 
UKI accept there were delays in the progression of the claim and Ill come back to this point 
below. Im pleased to see the delays havent had a detrimental effect on the claim itself. UKI 
have referred the matter to its legal representatives who are taking the relevant steps. 
I have reviewed the documents provided by both sides. I can see that UKI contacted the 
third party to dispute liability for the claim, and when the third party came back to offer 50/50, 
UKI rejected that offer. I can also see there were periods where there was no progression of 
the claim and UKI appeared to be waiting for the third party to issue court proceedings rather 
than taking a proactive approach. And so I am upholding this part of the complaint. 
Effect on future insurance cost 
It is important to explain we are not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell 
an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. And our service generally takes the view 
that provided it treats people fairly an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels it needs to in 
order to cover a risk.
Mr O has said he had a previous accident and two non-fault incidents and they would also 
have had an impact on the cost of his motor insurance. So I cant say this incident alone is 
the reason its increased. 
At the time Mr O arranged his new policy and cover for his driving job the claim was still 
outstanding. Since he thought the third party was liable he didnt realise it would impact his 
insurance premium. So he was shocked when he found out that his premium would rise 
because of the incident. But since UKI hadnt yet recovered its costs from the third party the incident would likely be recorded as an open claim. So while I understand Mr O is upset by 
this, its standard practice by insurers and I dont think UKI has done anything wrong here.
Once the claim has settled and liability agreed Mr O will be able to let his insurer know and 
the premium of his policy should be adjusted accordingly.
Compensation
I appreciate UKIs management of Mr Os claim didnt reach the standard he expected. And I 
acknowledge that he could have expected better treatment as a UKI customer. But Im of the 
view that £500 compensation that I referred to above is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint. And I can assure Mr O that I have considered his complaint 
carefully taking all the circumstances into account. 
I know Mr O will be disappointed with my decision. UKI has accept the service fell below 
what would be expected and awarded Mr O £500 to reflect this. I think this is reasonable in 
the circumstances and in line with what I would have suggested.
Response to my provisional decision 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they want me to 
consider. 
UKI agreed with the outcome of my provisional decision. Mr O didnt provide any comments 
or new information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that UKI agree with the findings set out in my provisional decision (which 
Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), Im satisfied it represents 
an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr 
Os complaint. 
Putting things right
As explained above Im of the view that £500 compensation that I referred to above is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. So UKI should pay this to Mr O less 
any amount already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and 
direct UK Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman