DRN-3414333
The complaint
Miss G opened a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) in 
July 2011. Miss G says that she was told that she had to take out the account in order to 
improve her credit score. She is also unhappy that she believes that Halifax agreed her 
account was mis-sold but would not offer her any redress.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think Halifax had mis-sold the 
URCA. Because Miss G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Miss G was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. I note that Miss G is adamant about 
what she says she was told, but I have to consider this alongside all the evidence that I have 
been provided with. Firstly, I note that Miss G had held a separate fee-free account with 
Halifax prior to when she took out the account. So I think she would have known that in 
general fee-free accounts were available from Halifax. 
Miss G says she was told that she had to take out the account in order to improve her credit 
score and that she had a loan application declined prior to taking out this account. Looking 
though at Halifaxs customer notes there is no record of a declined loan application around 
this time. So I cant see why Miss G wouldve thought her credit score needed improving. I 
also cant see any other application for credit until a number of years later. Had Miss G taken 
out the URCA to improve her credit score I would have expected her to apply for credit 
sooner than she did. As such, all the evidence I have seen does not correlate with Miss Gs 
recollection of the sale. This means Im not able to place as much weight on Miss Gs 
testimony, than say, if there was corroborating evidence that supported what she is saying.
I note that at the time the account was taken out the URCA came with a fee-free overdraft 
(subject to application), preferential deals on other financial products. And it included an 
identity theft advice line, as well as a 25% discount on Identiguard insurance - which is a 
product that allowed Miss G unlimited access to her credit report and a live credit monitoring 
service. So it may be that what Miss G recalls is that she was told that she could have 
access to these benefits, by having the URCA, rather than it being the case that she was 
told the URCA would improve her credit score. But either way, Ive not seen enough 
evidence to be able to say that its more likely than not that Miss G was mis-led into thinking 
she had to agree to the URCA to improve her credit score. 
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. I 
can see that Miss G registered a mobile phone handset under the mobile phone insurance 
policy shortly after the account was taken out. I also note that she contacted the travel 
insurer on more than one occasion. So I think it likely that she was relying on this benefit as 
well. I note that Miss G explained that she did not drive or have a house so could not use the 
breakdown cover and emergency cover, but the benefits of a packaged bank account are 
rarely tailored to the individual. So I dont think this on its own means the account was mis-
sold.
Overall, while I do appreciate what Miss G has said about the sale itself, on balance I think 
its more likely she agreed to the account because she was attracted to the overall package 
of benefits rather than because she thought that it was the only way to improve her credit 
score.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Miss G. It did though have to give Miss G enough 
information to decide this for herself. And I think that the main benefits wouldve been 
outlined to Miss G to make the account seem attractive.
I accept that Miss G may not have been given all the information about all of the benefits of 
the account, during the sale. But I cant see anything specific that Miss G was not told that I 
think wouldve changed her decision to take out the account. 
Miss G has questioned why would she have agreed to having a separate URCA, when she 
already recently had opened a separate fee-free current account with Halifax. I can see that 
she had opened a fee-free current account in August 2010, but I dont think simply opening a 
second account means the URCA was mis-sold. It is relatively common for someone to have 
a second current account and opening a second one does not in itself mean that I am able to 
conclude that the URCA was mis-sold or mis-represented to Miss G. 
On balance, I think Miss G agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that she didnt have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because she was interested in the benefits on the 
account, although I accept that Miss G may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Miss G. Its clear that Miss G feels strongly 
that the account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have 
provided value for money. I also can see that whilst Miss G registered for and enquired 
about the mobile phone and travel insurance she never actually claimed on these benefits. 
But I am only considering the sale itself and I dont think Halifax mis-sold the account to Miss 
G so I cant uphold this complaint.Finally, I note Miss Gs comments that she believes Halifax admitted to mis-selling her 
account but did not offer any redress due to the timescales involved. I have listened to the 
call in question and I am satisfied that Halifax did not admit that the account was mis-sold. 
Rather, Miss G said to the member of staff that it had been mis-sold and that Halifax were 
refusing to pay redress due to the timescales involved and the member of staff did not 
correct her. Regardless of this though, once a complaint is brought to us, I need to assess it 
based on the available evidence and having done so there is not enough for me to say that 
the account was mis-sold.
I should highlight that this decision represents the last stage in our process so there is no 
recourse to appeal this outcome or discuss the merits of this complaint further. That said 
Miss G is potentially free to pursue her complaint elsewhere such as court if she so wishes. 
My final decision
I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman