DRN-2398986
The complaint
Mr H says Advancis Limited (trading as Bunny Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr H took out a guarantor loan from Bunny Loans in June 2019. It was for £5,000 over 60 
months. The monthly repayment was £197.62 and the total repayable was £11,898.03. The 
loan remains outstanding.
Mr H says Bunny Loans lent irresponsibly as he had a large amount of unsecured debt, 
including payday loans, and a gambling problem. He says he asked for the interest to be 
removed so he can make lower monthly repayments, and for his guarantor to be released, 
but Bunny Loans refused this request. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said the lenders checks 
were not proportionate: proportionate checks would have shown that the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr H and that he was having problems managing his money.
Bunny Loans disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said the loan was to consolidate a 
number of Mr Hs more expensive debts, so it wasnt increasing his indebtedness. Its checks 
were proportionate, and Mr H should have honestly disclosed that he paid all the mortgage. 
It asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Bunny Loans lent to Mr H. Its 
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged Bunny 
Loans to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, Bunny Loans was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr H could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bunny Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr 
H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bunny Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bunny Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr H, and have considered the following questions:
did Bunny Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Hs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Bunny Loans make a fair lending decision?
did Bunny Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Bunny Loans asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of his income and his monthly living costs. It verified his declared income by asking 
for a payslip, in addition to completing an external check. It checked his credit file to 
understand his credit history and his existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose 
of the loan, which was debt consolidation. It then deducted the repayments of the four 
accounts Mr H was settling with this loan and added in the repayment of this loan.
From these checks combined Bunny Loans concluded Mr H would be left with monthly 
disposable income of £201.36 and so the loan was affordable. 
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr H was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from Bunny Loans. He was entering into a long-term 
commitment and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect 
that Bunny Loans would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information 
about Mr Hs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. It knew from his credit 
report that he had 17 active accounts, total unsecured of debt over £55,000, that three of his 
credit cards were running at or close to their credit limit and that he been using his overdraft 
every month for more than the last 12 months. So, given the term and value of Mr Hs loan 
and his level of indebtedness, I think Bunny Loans ought to have completed a fuller financial 
review before agreeing the loan.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Hs complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown Bunny Loans and consider if it ought 
to have realised that Mr H most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Hs bank statements. I am not saying Bunny Loans had to do this but its 
one way Bunny Loans could have gathered the information I think it needed on Mr Hs 
financial situation. In his view our adjudicator summarised what the statements showed in 
the month prior to Mr Hs loan application. He said Mr Hs income was £3838 as hed declared, but his expenditure totalled £3859 so he concluded Mr H didnt have the 
disposable income Bunny Loans had calculated, rather he had no disposable income 
available to spend, or to make this loan repayment. 
In response to this finding Bunny Loans said as Mr H was taking out its loan for the purpose 
of debt consolidation a number of his debts would be cleared. As I set out earlier, I can see it 
therefore removed these repayments from its affordability calculations. This is a fair to a 
point. What I would have expected Bunny Loans to understand and react to was Mr Hs 
ongoing credit commitments and overall level of indebtedness. 
Whilst Mr H was clearing two high-cost short-term loans, an unsecured loan, one credit card 
and in full and £1,100 from another, he was paying off only ten percent of his overall 
unsecured debt. Discounting the debts that Mr H cleared with this loan, but including 
ongoing commitments, Bunny Loans list of his unsecured creditors shows Mr H would still 
have to meet monthly repayments of £1935. This was a significant proportion of his monthly 
income and in excess of the guidance in The FLA Lending Code 2006 that says factors 
which may show a high risk of a consumer experiencing financial difficulty include spending 
more than 25% of monthly income on credit.  
Returning to what better checks would have shown, I can see from the bank statements that 
Mr H was making a mortgage repayment of £1,148, not £574 as he disclosed. There is no 
evidence of an incoming credit to cover the other £574 so it seems he made the full 
repayment each month. So after making just this adjustment to his living expenses and 
amending his credit commitments to reflect the consolidated debts, Mr H did not have 
sufficient disposable income to make this loan affordable. And this is before taking into 
account that I also can see from his bank statements that Mr H was spending around 15% of 
his income on gambling, something Bunny Loans did not have sight of due to its level of 
checks. 
Bunny Loans says the problem is that Mr H gave a false value for his contribution to the 
mortgage payment when he applied. But this does not change my conclusion as his 
inaccurate disclosure does not alter Bunny Loans obligation to carry out proportionate 
checks before lending.
I think that if Bunny Loans had completed proportionate checks, it would have realised the 
loan was unaffordable for Mr H. So as a responsible lender it would have decided not to 
approve his application. And in addition to it not being unaffordable on a pounds and pence 
basis, there were several indications that Mr H was having problems managing his money 
and was already borrowing to repay given the number of loans he was managing, and the 
consistent use of his overdraft. So there was a clear and high risk he wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay any further borrowing.
I have also looked at whether Bunny Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. I havent found any evidence that it did. Mr H says he asked for reduced payments, but 
the lender rejected this request. In the account notes Bunny Loans has supplied there are no 
contacts that reflect such a conversation. However, now the complaint is resolved I would 
remind Bunny Loans of its obligation to treat Mr H positively and sympathetically as it must 
work to agree an affordable payment plan. As Mr H is experiencing financial difficulties, he 
may find it helpful to seek support from an organisation that helps with this type of situation 
such as StepChange (tel: 0330 055 2198) if he hasnt already done so.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnthave been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr H
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Bunny 
Loans should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H, bearing in mind 
its obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Bunny 
Loans should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bunny Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Bunny Loans should
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
To settle this complaint, Mr H also asked for his guarantor to be discharged. But I am
considering here what needs to be put right for Mr H. If his guarantor is unhappy with
Bunny Loans conduct, she should raise a complaint with them directly. She can of course 
then bring her complaint to this service if she is unhappy with their response.  
My final decision
I ma upholding Mr Hs complaint and Advancis Limited (trading as Bunny Loans) must now 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman