DRN-3504929
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) trading as 
FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr J was introduced to BRG in 2018 through another advisory firm which provided 
information on Mr J, to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. 
BRG also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
low/medium. 
On 4 December 2018, BRG issued a suitability report in which it advised Mr J to transfer his 
pension benefits into a SIPP and invest the proceeds through a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM). 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were;
Mr J had concerns about his future health and wanted to ensure that in the event of 
his death, his wife would have sufficient income.
Mr J wanted financial stability, and a possible holiday. He also wanted flexibility and 
control over the amount of income he wanted to take and when.
Mr J had sufficient alternative income from elsewhere to provide his financial needs 
throughout retirement.
If his wife was to pre-decease him, he wanted to leave the death benefits to his step- 
granddaughter.
Mr J complained in 2021 to BRG about the suitability of the transfer advice because;
The financial jargon used when the advice was hard for him to understand.
BRG assessed Mr J attitude to risk as low/medium but he was a cautious investor.
He had suffered a financial loss as a consequence of the transfer. 
BRG didnt uphold MR Js complaint. It said;
Mr J and his wife both smoked and had medical conditions which reduced their life 
expectancy.
Mr Js wife was 17 years older than him, so she was likely to predecease him. As 
such, the likelihood of Mr Js wife benefitting from the death benefits of the DB 
scheme were small. 
The value of the guaranteed lifetime income wasnt essential as Mr Js state pension 
would cover their living costs. Therefore, flexibility and potential to leave his pension 
to his grandchild were not objectives that could be met within the DB scheme.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
BRG to pay compensation.
They said, in summary, that the advice given by BRG wasnt suitable for Mr J, and the 
reasons BRG provided for going ahead with the transfer didnt outweigh the risks associated 
with doing so when the DB scheme provided valuable benefits with virtually no risk involved.  
The investigator communicated this to BRG in May 2022, around six weeks ago, but BRG 
hasnt responded, despite the investigator chasing the matter. 
So, to ensure a timely resolution, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in MR Js best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr J told BRG that he wanted to retire at age 65. However, under his DB scheme, his normal 
retirement age was 60.
BRG calculated a transfer value comparator (TVC) of £260,607, as was required by the 
regulator on transfers after 1 October 2018. The TVC is a measure of the funds that would 
need to be invested at the time of transfer on a so-called 'risk-free' basis (government 
bonds), to provide the same income as the DB scheme at normal retirement age. This can 
be compared with the actual transfer value quoted by the scheme of £118,756.02. The 
difference between the two, over £141,000, represents the amount of additional growth Mr J 
would have needed to achieve by taking on investment risk if intending to draw benefits at 
the scheme's normal retirement age.BRG also calculated the critical yield required to match Mr Js benefits at age 60, which was 
32% if he took a full pension. This was the growth rate Mr Js funds would need to achieve in 
order to purchase an annuity providing the same benefits as his DB scheme.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.2% per year for 3 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
low/medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 
32%, and Mr J needed his funds to grow by over £141,000 just to match his benefits, I think 
Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme 
at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And given it was noted 
in the fact-find that Mr Js number one priority was to increase his pension, I think BRG 
ought to have known that transferring out of the DB scheme wasnt the way to achieve this.
BRG has said that the critical yield isnt particularly relevant because Mr J didnt intend to 
take an annuity. It provided several cashflow models which it says shows Mr J wouldve 
been able to meet his objectives if he transferred out of the DB scheme. Ive considered 
these, but BRGs models show that if Mr J took the same level of income he was entitled to 
through his DB scheme and a low level of growth was achieved, his funds would be depleted 
by age 77. And if growth of 5% was achieved the fund would be depleted by age 85.
Another cashflow model showed the impact of Mr J not drawing any funds from the pension, 
instead, relying purely on his and his wifes state pension. Clearly, this would leave Mr J with 
a significant fund to draw on or pass to his family on his death. However, given Mr Js 
objective was to increase his pension, I dont think that demonstrating Mr J could make his 
funds last if he took little or no income supports that transferring out of the DB scheme would 
enable Mr J to meet his objectives.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Js best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs 
BRG says that Mr J required around £1,000 per month in retirement. It said he had sufficient 
additional pension funds and savings, as well as his and his wifes state pension, that he 
could rely on. So, in effect, it says he could afford to take a risk with this pension and 
transferring out of the DB scheme would give him the flexibility to take variable income and 
the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) if he needed it.
But I dont think Mr J actually required flexibility in retirement. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think he had any need to access his TFC earlier than the normal scheme 
retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this because BRG has 
provided no reasons for him wanting to do so  in fact, the information it gathered noted Mr J 
did not have any need to take TFC, though he thought it was a good idea to have the option.A desire to have the potential for flexibility is not, in my view, a reason to give up a 
guaranteed increasing income in retirement. And if Mr J required flexibility, then I think BRG 
ought to have noted he already had this through his other pensions (defined-contribution 
schemes) and significant savings of over £50,000. Mr J couldve used these funds to 
drawdown as and when he needed.
I also cant see evidence that Mr J had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Although BRG has said that Mr J wanted to increase, decrease start and stop his 
income in retirement, and didnt want the set income for life provided by the existing DB 
scheme, it hasnt provided any reasons as to why this would be the case.
I appreciate that Mr Js income requirements in retirement could largely be met by his and 
his wifes state pension. However, I dont think that meant Mr J shouldve been advised to 
give up another guaranteed source of income just to have flexibility that he already had, and 
didnt actually need.
Death benefits
In the suitably report provided by BRG, it says that flexible death benefits was a specific 
objective for Mr J  as he wanted to be able to leave his benefits to his step-granddaughter 
should his wife, who was older than him, pre-decease him. It says it was of high importance 
to him to specify whom his death benefits should go to. 
However, it also says that Mr J was worried about his own health and wanted to make sure 
that his wife would have sufficient income on his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to Mr Js, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRG explored to what extent Mr 
J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Mr Js DB scheme provided a 50% spouses pension so his wife wouldve received a 
guaranteed income for the rest of her life should Mr J have passed away before her. I dont 
think BRG made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr J. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not 
have been a large sum left/the fund may have been depleted particularly if Mr J lived a long 
life.  In any event, BRG should not have encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
If Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his step-granddaughter, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, he had a 
separate defined contribution pension and a personal pension which he could have 
nominated her as the beneficiary of (instead of his wife).  But I cant see that BRG discussed 
these options with him.
I can see that BRG also explored the whole of life insurance, but this was discounted due to 
cost. Given that Mr J had suffered with poor health in the past, I accept that life insurance 
was likely to be an expensive way of providing death benefits to his family (if indeed an 
insurer was prepared to provide him with cover at all). But as Ive said above, I think Mr J 
had other assets that he couldve left for his family in the event of his premature death.  I acknowledge that Mr J had appears to have had concerns about his life expectancy, and 
he had a medical condition. So, BRG argues that Mr J might not benefit from his DB scheme 
for a long time. But Mr J not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was 
also possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr J would need his pension to last 
longer. If Mr J transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death benefits, 
whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And I dont think that Mr Js alternative 
assets were properly explored as an alternative.
Use of DFM 
BRG recommended that Mr J use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr J should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would 
not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But BRG wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr J shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just in case he or his wife may have passed away earlier than expected, and the 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his 
DB scheme.
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mr J to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against BRG's 
advice, but BRG hasnt provided any compelling reasons as to why he wouldve done so.
Therefore Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme, against BRGs advice. I say this because Mr J was an inexperienced investor with a 
low/medium attitude to risk and this pension was a significant part of Mr Js retirement 
provision. So, if BRG had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about his health were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he was paying 
for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If BRG had explained that Mr J 
could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme.In light of the above, I think BRG should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
DFMs responsibility for loss
BRG recommended that Mr J use a DFM. Im upholding this complaint on the basis the 
recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was unsuitable. So, I dont need to 
consider the suitability of the investment recommendation because Mr J shouldve been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme - the investment only exists because of BRGs 
unsuitable recommendation.
I recognise BRG may feel the DFMs actions may have also separately caused some
of Mr Js loss. With this in mind, Ive considered whether I should only hold BRG partly
responsible for compensating Mr J for his loss. In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to 
make an award for the whole loss against BRG. As Ive said, the DFM arrangement only 
exists because of BRGs unsuitable advice. BRG also continued to provide an ongoing 
advice service to Mr J which it  received a fee for, but I havent seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that it monitored the investment strategy to ensure it remained suitable for Mr J. 
So, anything that the DFM might also have done wrong doesnt make it reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case for BRG to avoid compensating for the losses they may have 
gone on to cause.
Im aware Mr J may be able to take his claims about the DFM to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be 
held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part of the losses could risk leaving Mr J 
out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying BRG is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because the DFM is in administration. My starting point as 
to causation is that BRG gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr J 
suffered in transferring his existing pension to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to 
my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr J wouldnt have lost out at all but for BRGs 
failings and that BRG benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think holding 
BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at age 60, which is the earliest he 
couldve taken his benefits without reduction.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr J to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of BRG. This 
is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the 
open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case here. 
To calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If BRG is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted. 
In return for this, BRG may ask Mr J to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mr J to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr J wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by BRG taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr J can discuss with 
his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BRG pay Mr J an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to pay Mr J any interest on 
that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to pay Mr J any interest as set out 
above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY pays Mr J the balance. I 
would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be 
paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement Group 
Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman