DRN-4379684
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) didnt do
enough to prevent him losing money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In late 2021 and early 2022 Mr S was sadly
the victim of a scam. This resulted in very significant losses to him. The money that Mr S
was tricked into sending to the scammers went from his bank accounts with banks that Ill
refer to as S and B.
As part of the wider scam, Mr S instructed two money transfers from his Tesco credit card.
One was for £20,500 in October 2021 which was paid into his account with S. And another
for £15,000 in January 2022 which was paid into his account with B. Mr S made a payment
to his credit card on 13 January 2022 of £21,517.15. This cleared the outstanding balance
from the initial money transfer and provided enough available credit to enable the second.
The money from the transfers to Mr S accounts with S and B was ultimately paid away to
the scammer and lost.
In February 2022 Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam. He reported this to the
relevant authorities as well as the banks involved. He believes that Tesco ought to have
picked up on and intervened in the money transfers which he says were unusual for his
account. He believes that if theyd done so, it would have made a difference. Mr S also
points out that Tesco had a policy which didnt allow payments to cryptocurrency on their
credit cards. Hed like Tesco to remove both transactions and any associated charges along
with any negative reporting on his credit record.
Tesco didnt think theyd done anything wrong and one of our Investigators later considered
the complaint. He didnt recommend that Tesco needed to do more. He said that there was
no loss to Mr S in transferring money from his credit card to his bank accounts. He also said
that even if Tesco ought to have intervened, he didnt think this would have made a
difference. Mr S didnt accept this outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to make a
decision.
In August 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of Mr S linked complaints which arise from the same overall scam. But this
decision is limited to whether Tesco have acted fairly and reasonably in all the
circumstances.
I accept that the money transfers Mr S instructed were made as a result of the wider scam
and were unusual compared to the typical usage of his credit card account. I think Tesco too
accept at least the first payment was unusual as their submissions show they took the
additional step of verifying the instruction Mr S provided for the £20,500 transfer via text
message.
However, Im not sure that this was a proportionate response to an unusual instruction which
used up the majority of the available credit on Mr S account. This was a significant change
in the operation of the account. Ive not seen evidence to support that Mr S had previously
made use of the money transfer facility on his credit card, nor made any payments of such a
significant value. Tescos reliance on a text message goes some way towards mitigating the
risk of an unauthorised transaction. But it doesnt do anything to protect against a fraud or
scam. As a regulated firm, Tesco have obligations to try to prevent fraud and scams and to
act in their customers best interests.
Tesco have said that the payment presented less risk as it was confirmed to be going to a
UK based account in Mr S name. I accept this, but I still think Tesco ought to have spoken
to Mr S, prior to processing the first money transfer to reassure themselves that he wasnt at
risk of financial harm from fraud. Had this happened, then I think Mr S would have explained
(as he did to both B and S) that he was making the money transfer to invest in
cryptocurrency.
Mr S has pointed out that in July 2021 Tesco published the following policy:
Hi everyone, were making a change to our Credit Cards I wanted to let you all know about.
Customers wont be able to use their card to buy cryptocurrency, or to invest in cryptoassets
from 14 July 2021.
While interest in cryptocurrency is at an all-time high, the market is largely unregulated and
more people are falling victim to scams involving cryptocurrency.
Weve made the decision to protect Tesco Bank customers from these scams. The most
effective way of doing this is to block credit card payments to companies dealing in crypto
purchases or trading activities
I think this makes clear that Tesco had taken a business decision to no longer facilitate
payments to cryptocurrency using their credit cards for the reasons stated above. I asked
Tesco what they think would have happened had they had a conversation with Mr S prior to
processing his money transfers, if told that the ultimate destination was cryptocurrency.
Tesco acknowledged that its difficult to know for sure, but ultimately said they would have
warned Mr S of the risks involved but would have followed his instructions.
Ive considered this, but Im not persuaded that is right. I think its most likely that Tesco
would have followed their own guidance. A money transfer to a bank account doesnt strictly
meet the terms of what Tesco have said wouldnt be allowed (direct payments to buy
cryptocurrency or invest). However, they are clear that, as a responsible credit provider, they
dont want the credit they provide to be used to purchase cryptocurrency and as such they
took a decision to prevent their customers from using their cards to purchase cryptocurrency
or invest in cryptoassets to protect them from falling victim to scams involving these. And Ive
no reason to think Mr S wouldnt have told Tesco that this was the purpose of his money
transfer. As such, in these circumstances, I think Tesco should have refused to process the
initial money transfer for that reason. And for completeness, I think they also should have
refused to follow the instruction for the second money transfer. The impact of this is that I
dont think Tesco should have permitted either money transfer. So next I need to consider
what needs to be done to put things right.
Whilst I intend to conclude that Tesco shouldnt have allowed these money transfers, thisisnt a basis upon which I can say they should refund Mr S with those payments. I could only
fairly direct them to do so if Tescos actions wouldve prevented those losses from arising 
for example Mr S coming to the realisation that this was a scam.
Having carefully considered Mr S linked complaints about B and S, I dont think there was
anything that Tesco reasonably could have said or done (including refusing his instructions)
that would have resulted in the discovery of the scam. So I cant say that Tescos failure here
allowed the scam to continue. And ultimately, I think Mr S would have found alternative
sources for the funds used from his credit card and wouldnt have ended up in a
meaningfully different position.
The funds involved in Mr S payment of over £21,000 on 13 January 2022 (which cleared the
balance of the initial money transfer) would most likely have been utilised instead of the
initial money transfer itself. And with regard to the £15,000 that followed, I also think its most
likely that Mr S would have sourced this money from elsewhere and it would still have been
paid away towards the scam. I say this as after that time, there were significant credits to
Mr S account with B. His statements from B show that there was a credit of over £155,000
on 1 February 2022 as well as credits of both £21,000 and £24,000 in the following days. So,
I dont think Mr S would have been unable to source further funds but for Tesco permitting
the second money transfer.
However, given Im intending to conclude that Tesco shouldnt have allowed Mr S money
transfers, I dont think its fair and reasonable for them to profit from doing so. As such, I
intend on upholding this complaint and directing Tesco to take the steps outlined below.
Mr S did receive the money transfers in his accounts, and whilst I acknowledge he then sent
the money on to a scam, that isnt a basis upon which I think it is reasonable to ask Tesco to
write off or not pursue any outstanding balance arising from the £15,000 money transfer.
Likewise, Im not persuaded that Tesco shouldnt accurately report the position of Mr S
account to the credit reference agencies.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Mr S or Tesco, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to direct Tesco
Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank to:
Reimburse Mr S with any fees charged in relation to both money transfers;
Refund any interest Mr S paid with respect to the £20,500 money transfer between
the date it was processed and the date Mr S cleared the balance.
Refund any interest Mr S has paid towards the £15,000 money transfer.
Write off any unpaid interest and not apply further interest in relation to any
outstanding balance as a result of the £15,000 money transfer.
Add 8% simple interest to any refunds (of interest) arising from payments made after
8 February 2022 (the date the scam was discovered and reported to his bank, S).
This is to compensate for Mr S being without the money for that period of time. For
payments prior to that date, had Mr S still had that money, I think its most likely he
would have paid it to the scam, so I dont think an interest award is appropriate.
Mr S responded and said he accepted my provisional decision. Tesco responded and didnt 
have any further evidence or comments for my consideration. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new evidence or comments about the merits of this complaint, 
I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco 
Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank must:
Reimburse Mr S with any fees charged in relation to both money transfers;
Refund any interest Mr S paid with respect to the £20,500 money transfer between
the date it was processed and the date Mr S cleared the balance.
Refund any interest Mr S has paid towards the £15,000 money transfer.
Write off any unpaid interest and not apply further interest in relation to any
outstanding balance as a result of the £15,000 money transfer.
Add 8% simple interest to any refunds (of interest) arising from payments made after
8 February 2022 (the date the scam was discovered and reported to his bank, S).
This is to compensate for Mr S being without the money for that period of time. For
payments prior to that date, had Mr S still had that money, I think its most likely he
would have paid it to the scam, so I dont think an interest award is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman