DRN-3344469
The complaint
Mr C complained that when he asked Nvayo Limited to switch off two-factor authentication 
on his e-money account, it wouldnt. Mr C says that meant he couldnt access the account at 
all, and he wanted Nvayo to pay him compensation for this.
What happened
Mr C contacted us when he couldnt get in to his account. He said he wasnt able to reset his 
sign-in using the two-factor authentication (2fa) system, and Nvayo wouldnt switch 2fa off. 
Mr C said this left him unable to access his account, stranded and psychological 
traumatized, so he wanted Nvayo to pay compensation.
Mr C then contacted us again, after hed made his complaint to Nvayo. He said he could now 
get into his account, but couldnt pay in funds. Mr C then said Nvayo should just pay him 
back the money and close his account if he couldnt add any further funds. He said he didnt 
mind losing the money hed paid Nvayo for this service. But hed also lost a very significant 
sum of money through unclosed deals because he couldnt pay money in, and he wanted 
Nvayo to compensate him for that. 
Mr C was also unhappy with the service provided by Nvayo. He said that it referred to his 
complaint to our service as a profanity.
Nvayo said the issue Mr C complained about was that he wasnt able to log in using its 2fa 
system. Nvayo said it wouldnt just switch this off, its an important part of keeping peoples 
accounts secure. It told us this issue only affected Mr C, and was to do with how he was 
using the system, not a core problem with its login. Nvayo investigated, and was able to help 
Mr C access his account. 
Nvayo didnt think Mr C had been left without any way to use his account in the meantime, 
because Mr C was always able to complete any transaction he wanted to over the phone. 
Nvayo said it wouldnt pay the large amount of compensation Mr C wanted. It said he wanted 
to pay in third party funds, which cant just be paid into Mr Cs account. And it also said Mr 
Cs claimed losses werent consistent with his previous use of the account, which it set out.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said although it was 
frustrating not to have access to an online account, Mr C could always just have called 
Nvayo instead. Our investigator didnt think it was reasonable to ask Nvayo to run the risk of 
switching off its 2fa system, which is a key part of its online security. He didnt think Nvayo 
had to do any more.
Mr C wanted to check if Nvayo would reopen his account, and if it would charge him for that. 
Nvayo said it couldnt reopen a closed account, and Mr C would just have to apply in the 
normal way, and pay any associated fees. Mr C said in that case he wanted an ombudsman 
to consider this complaint, and it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr C wasnt able to access his account online. Because the complaint Mr C made was about 
the security system used to access his account, I think its reasonable for Nvayo to take 
some time to look into this. 
After checking, Nvayo said that this wasnt a problem at its end, and supported Mr C to be 
able to regain access. By the time our service considered this complaint, his access had 
been reinstated.
Mr C said he still wasnt able to use the app to add funds to his account, although it doesnt 
appear to me that this issue has formally been raised with Nvayo. However, Nvayo has 
already told us that Mr C could carry out all of his transactions over the phone, 24 hours a 
day 7 days a week. So I dont think Mr C was entirely unable to use his account, either 
because he couldnt access the account online, or because he then couldnt add money 
online. I do realise its less convenient to have to call, rather than use an online service, but I 
dont think Nvayo has to pay compensation here, because of that. 
Mr C said hed lost an extremely large sum of money, because he couldnt use this account 
to buy cryptocurrency on behalf of clients. But it doesnt appear to me that Mr C was 
prevented from making this transaction. He just wasnt able to do it online. He had to phone 
Nvayo instead. And I dont think Nvayo has to pay the compensation Mr C would like, 
because of that.
Mr C also told us he wanted to close his account, and he said then that he didnt mind losing 
the money hed paid so far, for this service. Mr C then took steps to close his account. I 
know he would now like Nvayo to reinstate the account, but I dont think that Nvayo has to 
reopen Mr Cs account for him now, for free.
Mr C also said Nvayo had referred to his complaint to us as a profanity, and had issued him 
with a warning because of this. The excerpt of a message from Nvayo that Mr C has sent us 
does state that Nvayo wont tolerate profanities, but it doesnt link this to the complaint Mr C 
made to us. And the screenshot of Mr Cs messages to Nvayo (which Mr C sent us) does 
contain mild profanities. I recognise that Mr Cs comment was both mild, and sent at a time 
when Mr C was intensely frustrated, however I have to bear in mind that some persons 
might find this language less acceptable. So I dont think that theres evidence that the 
message from Nvayo does represent poor service to Mr C.
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-GoughOmbudsman