DRN-1617598
 
The complaint
A a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave it incorrect information 
about how long it would take for cheques to clear in its clients account.
What happened
A said it had been told by Barclays that cheques paid in would now clear the next day. But 
that it was then told it would take longer. And that the money from a cheque might not be 
available for five to seven days after it was paid in. A says that it clients were unhappy and 
thought that it was keeping their money. A complained and was eventually offered £175 by a 
local manager. The director did not think that this was enough and the manager said shed 
refer this to the next complaint level so a written outcome could be provided. When a final 
response was issued Barclays said that it would offer A £75. A was particularly unhappy that 
the amount had been reduced and said that had it known it might have accepted the original 
amount offered and wanted this to be honoured.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that complaint 
handling was not a regulated activity and so he would not be commenting on how Barclays 
dealt with the complaint. 
He said that the director of A had called on 10 December 2019 to ask how long it would take 
for a cheque to clear. Hed been told before it was 24 hours. But that day he was told at first 
that it would be longer and he had to speak to a manager who told him that the original 
timescale was right. He was offered £25 in compensation but said he wouldnt accept this 
and wanted £50. 
On 11 December 2019 A contacted Barclays and said it had been told that cheques 
deposited the day before wouldnt clear until 18 December 2019. He explained that this 
would cause issues with clients he needed to pay the money on to. He spoke to a manager 
on 13 December 2019 and he was offered £175 in compensation for A. His request for £250 
was declined. This was escalated and a decision made to offer him £75 in a final response 
dated 17 December 2019. The director said he had not received the final response and was 
shocked to hear about the change on 3 January 2020. The evidence was that the person 
looking at his complaint had first sent him a text (in line with the request on his answerphone 
greeting) having tried to speak to him about his complaint.
Our investigator said that it was open to Barclays to change the amount offered. And that if it 
had told A that this might happen it could have been seen to be putting pressure on it to 
accept the offer. He thought that the final response letter Barclays had sent would be a way 
for A to explain to clients what had happened. There was no evidence of direct financial loss 
for A and the compensation reflected the inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The money from the cheques paid in by A was available in the correct new timescales. But 
clearly A has been given incorrect information. Theres been reference to funds being 
available in 24 hours when the actual timescale is from 23:59 on the next working day 
provided the cheque is paid into a branch by 16:00. And it is clear that some members of 
staff have been looking at the old timescales for cheque clearance and passed them on to A.
I dont doubt this has caused inconvenience. A had told its clients that the cheques received 
on their behalf would be cleared faster. And it seems they knew anyway about the faster 
cheque clearance cycle. So this meant A had dissatisfied clients when it gave them different 
information and the director was himself unsure of the process. 
There is no financial loss. So this is about the inconvenience to A, a distinct legal entity to 
the director and which cannot suffer distress. The issue here is compensation. A referred 
this complaint when it had received a final response. And in that Barclays offered A £75. Our 
investigators set out what happened before that and the higher offer. But Im not going to be 
holding Barclays to that just because if offered and then withdrew it in the past. I might have 
taken a different view if it sought to change what had been offered in the final response after 
it gave referral rights to this service. But in any event Im forming my own judgement about 
what is reasonable and Im not separately considering Barclays complaint handling process. 
Having taken into account all the circumstances I consider that Barclays has made a 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint. And so Im not going to be asking it to do anything 
more than this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
need do no more than it has offered to do and which is to pay £75 to A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman