DRN-3597102
The complaint
Mrs I complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled 
a claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs I had an accident in her car involving a third-party driver. Mrs I notified 
Advantage of the accident and it accepted her claim. Advantage said Mrs Is car was a write-
off and made her a settlement within a month of the accident.
In April and May 2020, Mrs I contacted Advantage to find out what was happening about 
liability for the accident, which she said wasnt her fault. In May 2020, Advantage told Mrs I a 
claims handler would be in touch. For some months, Mrs I says she heard nothing from 
Advantage but assumed it was dealing with things. 
Then in August 2020, Mrs I found out her husbands car insurance premium had increased 
because she (as a named driver on his policy) had a fault claim noted against her. When 
Mrs I queried this with a solicitor, she was told this was standard practice when liability for a 
claim hadnt been settled.
So, over the months leading up to March 2021, Mrs I contacted Advantage a number of 
times for updates on whether liability had been settled. Then, at the end of March 2021,   
Mrs I was sent a county court claim form from the third partys insurer, who was seeking to 
recover its costs from the accident. Mrs I contacted Advantage, sent it the claim form and 
says she was told it was being sorted. But at the beginning of May, Mrs I was sent a county 
court judgment (CCJ). The judgment said this was because she hadnt responded to the 
claim form. She sent the CCJ to Advantage, who then instructed solicitors to have it revoked.
Mrs I says shes had the worst time of her life because of Advantages handling of her 
claim. Mrs I has also said she wants the accident recorded as not being her fault and her 
credit rating restored.
In September 2021, after Mrs I had brought her complaint to us, Advantage wrote to her 
explaining the solicitors it thought had been instructed to defend the third partys claim 
against Mrs I had in fact only been instructed in relation to her uninsured losses. It says this 
is why the matter escalated to a CCJ without its knowledge. Advantage told Mrs I it had 
instructed another firm of solicitors to get the CCJ revoked and to defend the third-party 
claim. Advantage has since told us this was an error of handling on our part and caused 
undue distress and inconvenience to Mrs I. And I understand Advantage has sent Mrs I a 
cheque for £250 in compensation for this.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Is complaint upheld it. She didnt think the compensation 
Advantage had offered Mrs I was fair in the circumstances and should be increased to £750 
in total. In brief, she thought Advantages error had caused a significant delay in settling the 
claim and had had a major impact on Mrs Is wellbeing.
Mrs I has accepted our investigators findings. Advantage hasnt and thinks its original offer 
of £250 is reasonable. Advantage accepts that having a CCJ imposed would be distressing 
for Mrs I. But Advantage also says it hasnt had any evidence of a financial impact on Mrs I, 
such as credit declined. 
So Mrs Is complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Is complaint. As Ill explain, I think its fair and 
reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mrs I £750 in total in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its mistakes in handling the claim have caused her.
Mrs I has described the experience shes had with Advantage following the claim as follows:
I have had the absolute worst time of my life over the last few months, I have been unable 
to sleep, I have been in a constant state of panic, and I have not stopped crying. I havent 
been able to think of anything else I have never, ever missed any bill payments, never 
been refused for credit and my credit rating has always been excellent. I now have a CCJ 
against me and my credit rating is in tatters
I understand the CCJ against Mrs I has now been revoked, so her credit rating will have 
been restored. And I understand Advantage instructed solicitors to deal with this quickly 
once Mrs I told it about the CCJ. But these things dont detract from what was clearly a very 
upsetting experience for Mrs I. 
It took more than a year for Advantage to realise it had made a mistake in the way it 
instructed its solicitors to deal with the claim  a mistake it has rightly accepted. And, in that 
time, Mrs I had been in touch with Advantage on a number of occasions, seeking updates 
(and seemingly not getting them) on how the issue of liability was being dealt with. Mrs I has 
told us of the frustration Advantages poor communications has caused her, saying: I have 
not EVER, throughout all this saga, had ANY communication from [Advantage] that was not 
instigated by me. 
In the early days of the claim, Advantage was undoubtedly adapting to new ways of working 
while the UK was in a Covid-19 lockdown. While this may account for some of the delays in 
dealing with Mrs Is initial requests for updates, I think the rest flows from Advantage not 
instructing its solicitors correctly at the outset in relation to defending the third partys claim.
Clearly, the most distressing element of Mrs Is experience, though, dates from her receipt of 
the county court claim form. Being sent court papers will have been disturbing enough for 
Mrs I. But, from what Mrs I says, when she contacted Advantages legal department about it, 
the call handler seemed uninterested. I think this will only have added to Mrs Is feelings of 
distress  indeed she describes being failed over and over and when I did manage to 
contact them, they seemed very unapologetic for their lack of support and made me feel like 
I was worthless.  
Following receipt of the claim form, Mrs I says she spent time scanning the papers across to 
Advantage and called at least twice more to make sure the matter was being dealt with, 
which it seems she was assured it would be. So for Mrs I then to be sent a CCJ a couple of 
weeks later  and on the basis that she hadnt responded to the claim form, when shed 
gone to the trouble of doing everything she could to ensure it was dealt with  mustve been very upsetting for her. And the consequences of having a CCJ against her must also have 
been deeply troubling for Mrs I, especially given what shes told us of her credit history.
Its clear to me that Advantages mistakes and poor communication have caused Mrs I 
substantial distress, upset and worry  as well as some inconvenience. The situation went 
on for over a year. And, despite Mrs Is best efforts, it culminated in her having a CCJ 
against her  something that clearly had a substantial (if reasonably short-term) impact on 
Mrs I. None of this wouldve happened had Advantage handled the claim properly at the 
outset. Advantage has said it has no evidence the CCJ had a financial impact on Mrs I. 
Neither do I. But that doesnt change my view that, in the circumstances of this complaint 
and for the reasons Ive given, its fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mrs I £750 
in total in compensation (that is, including the £250 Advantage has already offered Mrs I) for 
the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim has caused her.
When Mrs I first complained to us, she said she wanted the claim to be recorded as no 
fault and for her credit rating to be restored. I understand the issue of liability has now been 
dealt with by the courts. And I believe the revocation of the CCJ means Mrs Is credit rating 
will now have been restored.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Is complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs I £750 in total for the distress and inconvenience its handling of 
the claim has caused her. I understand Advantage has already sent Mrs I a cheque for £250. 
If this has been cashed by Mrs I, Advantage can deduct £250 from the overall compensation 
of £750.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date we tell it Mrs I accepts my final decision. If it doesnt, I direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs I interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman