DRN-4248930
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as smile) wont refund money he 
paid to a sole trader for home improvement work which hasnt been completed.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr B paid a sole trader (Ill refer to them as G) to carry out work on two 
bathrooms, to include refurbishment and replacement of the fittings. 
Mr B says hed employed G the previous year for work on his living room, dining room and 
kitchen. That work had been completed to a satisfactory standard, so Mr B had asked G to 
carry out the work he wanted done on the bathrooms.
G provided Mr B with an emailed quotation. He asked for payments up front to cover the cost 
of purchasing materials, including the bathroom fittings.
Mr B sent a bank transfer from his smile account on 25 March 2022 for £6,433. A start date 
of 18 April was agreed. G hired a skip. He then turned up and carried out work, removing the 
old fixtures, most of the tiling and the old flooring. On 24 April 2022, Mr B sent a further 
transfer of £3,150.
However, G then said hed fallen ill. He told Mr B that hed been hospitalised and later that 
he was suffering from pneumonia. Mr B waited and G was apparently discharged from 
hospital in October 2022. But despite Mr B being told G would attend and finish the work, 
this didnt happen.
In February 2023, the skip company contacted Mr B. It couldnt get hold of G and Mr B had 
to pay for the time hed had the skip at his property. 
Mr B says he last spoke to G in mid-March 2023. He was told G would attend to carry out 
the work that weekend. But yet again, this didnt happen.
Ultimately Mr B contacted smile to report the matter. He said he didnt think G had set out to 
scam him, and he actually thought G had likely bought the materials and fittings hed said he 
was purchasing, but said G needed to refund him or complete the work. 
Smile recommended Mr B should contact Trading Standards, and report this to the Police 
and Action Fraud. However, Mr B says the Police (and Action Fraud) didnt think it was 
viable to pursue the matter.
Smile wrote to Mr B explaining that it thought he had a civil dispute with G. In other words, it 
didnt consider hed been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam). 
Because Mr B had paid G by bank transfers, the protections that would apply against breach 
of contract or misrepresentation if hed paid by card payment werent available to him. Smile 
couldnt help and didnt consider it was liable to refund Mr B.
Mr B referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They sympathised with the situation Mr B now found himself in but agreed with 
smile that the matter was a civil dispute rather than an APP scam. The Investigator said the 
bank had no obligation to provide Mr B with a refund.
Mr B disagreed. He thought G had deliberately not carried out the work and so thought this 
should be seen as a criminal scam. However, the Police and Action Fraud werent 
pursuing G, and Mr B had found out that if he took G to court it might cost more in fees than 
hed paid. He needed his bank to pay for what hed lost.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the situation Mr B is in. He has paid a considerable sum and received 
very little in return. Despite showing considerable patience in waiting while G said he was ill, 
no progress has been made in G fulfilling the agreed work. This has meant Mr B has had 
little choice but to cancel and look for someone else to complete the work.
 
Mr B has repeatedly asked G to return and finish the work hed started, and hes also asked 
G to refund him. But G has not complied with either option. 
It seems hard to argue other than that G has breached his contract with Mr B and owes him 
redress. But Im not deciding a dispute between Mr B and G  I dont have the power to look 
into a complaint about G. My role is limited to deciding the dispute between Mr B and his 
bank. 
Of course, smile didnt contract with Mr B for the works he wanted done, and I cant hold it 
responsible for any breach of contract or other failings on Gs part. As a starting point in law 
Mr B is responsible for payments hes instructed smile to make for him. Unfortunately, 
theres little protection available for bank transfer payments, like these were. 
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
does provide some protection to victims of APP scams. But it excludes private civil disputes. 
Simply put, in order to find smile was somehow liable to Mr B under the CRM Code, Id need 
to find that the evidence was strong enough to show this had been a deliberate criminal 
scam from the outset rather than it being a private civil dispute between Mr B and G.
The question therefore, is whether G was acting fraudulently from the outset - deliberately 
setting out to deceive Mr B into making the payments he did whilst never having intended to 
buy the materials or carry out the agreed work. That also means being able to exclude on 
the balance of probabilities the alternative possibility that this is simply a matter of G 
breaching his legitimate contract with Mr B.
Put another way that means deciding whether the available evidence shows it is most likely 
that G set out to defraud Mr B with criminal intent. That is a high bar to meet.
Its important to note that it isnt for smile to investigate G, neither does it need to prove that 
G wasnt operating fraudulently. It is for Mr B to provide evidence to support those 
allegations. While Mr B has provided evidence showing that the work was not completed and 
that the skip provider was not paid, these could both be consistent with G having suffered serious ill-health as much as with G never having intended to complete the work from before 
the payments were made.
In an attempt to shed some light on the matter, our Investigator contacted the firm holding 
the account that received Mr Bs payments. While I cannot detail the information that the 
recipient firm has provided in response, that information is not consistent with G having set 
out to defraud Mr B.
All considered I simply cant safely conclude that G took Mr Bs money without ever having 
any intention of carrying out the work or purchasing the items hed paid for. The evidence 
available to me simply isnt enough to support such a finding.
I appreciate how frustrating and disappointing this answer will be. Mr B has lost a lot of 
money as a result of Gs failure to complete the agreed work. But I cant exclude the 
possibility that G entered the agreement in good faith, intending to fulfil the work (as he had 
apparently done for Mr B previously) and then was unable or unwilling to fulfil the agreement 
through unanticipated ill-health or some other reason. The evidence doesnt allow me to 
conclude its more likely than these alternative possibilities that G intended to steal his 
money from the outset and never had any intent of fulfilling the arrangement in full or in part. 
That means that I cant fairly hold smile responsible for the loss suffered here by Mr B. It also 
means I find the bank had no ability or obligation to try and recover his money. In saying that 
I dont underestimate the impact this whole matter has had on Mr B  I am sorry he has lost 
out through no fault of his own. It does seem his trust and his patience has been betrayed 
by G. But its simply the case that I cant fairly tell smile to pay him the money hes lost, 
because I dont think smile has treated him unfairly or was otherwise at fault here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman