DRN-3762458
The complaint
Mr S complains about how i Go 4 Ltd trading as Wisedriving (Wisedriving) administered his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy through a broker, Wisedriving, on 1 February 2022. 
As part of his online application through an aggregator website, Mr S was asked a question 
about previous motor accidents, claims or losses over the previous five years.
Mr S didnt tell Wisedriving about an incident hed had during 2021 when his car was hit by a 
third party. No claim was made by Mr S and it was noted on his previous policy as 
notification only.
As part of its procedures, Wisedriving checked Mr Ss information with a database called 
Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). It found that Mr S had been involved in this previous 
incident, so Wisedriving added it to his policy. This increased his premium by £148.08, 
including Wisedrivings administration fee of £35.
Wisedriving took the money from Mr Ss account. He wasnt happy about this and he 
complained. Mr S was told by Wisedriving that if he could get the details of the incident from 
his previous insurer then it could reconsider its price and return the additional premium to 
him. Mr Ss previous insurer sent confirmation it was notification only but wasnt able to 
remove details of the claim from CUE, so Wisedrivings charges still applied.
Wisedriving said itd acted fairly as itd asked him a clear question when hed bought the 
policy, and the insurer would use the information hed given to provide the correct premium. 
Because Wisedriving had to amend Mr Ss policy after itd already started, it charged the 
administration fee on top of the increased premium charged by the insurer.
Mr Ss complaint is only about the actions of Wisedriving as his broker.
Wisedriving said it would waive its administration fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He is unhappy that 
Wisedriving lied to him twice about the situation, and he said it promised him he would get 
his money back. Mr S has said he was struggling financially at this time so this money was 
very important to him. He says he spent a long time on the phone trying to sort this out.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. He said he thought Wisedriving 
had made some mistakes when itd discussed the situation with Mr S. These mistakes had 
caused Mr S come inconvenience, so he thought it was fair for Wisedriving to pay Mr S £40 
compensation as well as waiving its £35 admin fee.
Wisedriving didnt agree with the view. It said Mr S only had to send one email to his 
previous insurer, and then forward it on to Wisedriving. Wisedriving didnt accept that the 
compensation of £40 was fair. Because Wisedriving didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr S and Wisedriving and I can understand why Mr S is 
unhappy about Wisedrivings service. He asks for confirmation about his requests and he 
seems to get that confirmation back from Wisedrivings call handlers, but Im not convinced 
that they knew exactly what Mr S was asking for.
But I dont think thats Mr Ss fault. It seems clear to me that he is trying to understand what 
he needs to get from his previous insurance company and asking what would then happen 
with the information, but Wisedriving seem to struggle to understand the implications of his 
questions. 
Then, when Mr S provides the information hes been asked to get, Wisedriving isnt able to 
give him what he wants because of those earlier misunderstandings. 
Mr S, like most consumers in insurance, buys his policy and probably interacts with an 
insurance company about once a year. Its Wisedrivings role as experts to guide Mr S 
through the process fairly, and in this case I dont think it has done that.
I can say that Mr S should have provided Wisedriving with the correct information about his 
notification only incident when he applied for the policy, in which case his premium would 
have been correct from the beginning and the extra amount would have already been paid 
by him. But the confusion that then arose was not due to Mr Ss actions and Ive said above I 
think Wisedriving should have done more. 
I think its fair of Wisedriving to waive its administration fee of £35, and I think £40 
compensation is a reasonable level of compensation given the inconvenience caused to Mr 
S.
I can also see in the file that the underwriter of Mr Ss policy has provided evidence of a 
lower premium increase than has been applied by Wisedriving.
Ive said above that this complaint is only about Wisedrivings actions as a broker, but Id 
expect that Wisedriving look carefully at this amount and refund his overpayment if this 
information is correct.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct i Go 4 
Ltd trading as Wisedriving to:
Waive its administration fee of £35.
Pay Mr S £40 for his distress and inconvenience arising from its poor service.
i Go 4 Ltd must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman