DRN-2556766
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsburys failed to follow his instructions to return an overpayment to 
his current account and instead sent it to another account. The money didnt arrive and Mr L 
now requires Sainsburys to return his missing money and to compensate him for the upset 
and inconvenience hes had as a result of whats happened along with his additional costs 
hes incurred. 
What happened
On 31 March 2020 Mr L made a payment of £3,400 to his Sainsburys credit card. This was 
£1,984.31 more than the actual balance so on 1 April he called Sainsburys to ask it to refund 
the overpayment to his current account. 
On 3 April Sainsburys made a payment of the £1,984.31. However, Sainsburys said it wasnt 
possible to pay this money into Mr Ls current account as the payment had come from 
another credit card. Instead it returned the money to Barclaycard, the original source of the 
funds.
Mr L says the funds didnt arrive and as a result, he had to borrow money for his living costs 
for the following months as well as incurring additional costs for using other forms of credit. 
This has had a significant impact on him financially as well as the upset and inconvenience 
caused by the loss of his money. Mr Ls also unhappy that Sainsburys didnt tell him at the 
time that it wasnt able to return the money to his current account and that it would be 
sending it somewhere else.
Mr L wanted Sainsburys to return his missing money plus interest at his credit card rate, to 
pay him compensation for his distress and upset and to reimburse him the additional costs 
hes had as a result of whats happened.
Sainsburys rejected the complaint. It said it had made a payment of £1,984.31 on 3 April to 
the source account and had no record of it being returned.  But it agreed it should have 
told Mr L where the money would be sent when he called in on 1 April and, as it hadnt, it 
credited his account with £50. It felt it had made the payment correctly, however, so didnt 
agree it was now responsible for the missing funds.
Our investigator said Sainsburys had provided details of the payment it had made to 
Barclaycard using Mr Ls card reference as the identifier. In the circumstances she couldnt 
agree it had done anything wrong and felt it was for Barclaycard to now locate the funds.
Mr L disagreed and has provided a letter from Barclaycard of 8 December 2020 in which it 
confirmed that a payment was received from Sainsburys on 3 April but with an incorrect 
reference. Accordingly, it was returned to Sainsburys on 6 April 2020. Mr L said he felt 
Sainsburys was still responsible for the missing money and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.  
On 14 December 2020 I issued a provisional decision and made the following points:
It was accepted that Mr L made an overpayment onto his Sainsburys credit card on 31 
March 2020. It was also accepted that, on 1 April, he contacted Sainsburys to ask it to return 
the overpayment of £1,984.31 to his current account and provided the account details.
Sainsburys wasnt able to do this because the payment had originally come from Mr Ls 
Barclaycard. Instead it said it had refunded the money to the account the money had 
originally been paid from. That wasnt unreasonable in itself but I felt Sainsburys should have 
explained this to Mr L at the time so that he could decide what he wanted to do with regard 
to the overpayment. Sainsburys had accepted this point and paid Mr L £50 for the lack of 
information.
It was clear thered been some disagreement between Barclaycard and Sainsburys as to 
where this money was located. Barclaycard said it had returned the money to Sainsburys on 
6 April but Sainsburys denied this and said it had no record of it being returned.
However, Mr L had provided more recent information from Barclaycard to show the payment 
had been returned to Sainsburys together with the details of the account it had been 
returned to, the date, and the payment identifier. In view of the details provided and that this 
information post-dated the information from Sainsburys I decided on balance that it was 
probable the money had been returned to Sainsburys.
On that basis I proposed that Sainsburys should refund the £1,984.31 to Mr L together with 
interest at 8% from the 31 March to the date of the refund. In addition, it was only reasonable 
that Sainsburys should compensate Mr L for the upset and inconvenience hed had from 3 
April until now as a result of the failed payment. It was clear that the potential loss of such a 
large amount of money had been very stressful for Mr L, in addition to the financial impact of 
not having access to these funds for such a long period of time. For that reason, I proposed 
Sainsburys should pay him £200 in addition to the £50 it had already paid
Id taken into account what Mr L had said about the additional costs hes incurred from 
having to borrow to cover the missing funds and advised that, if he was able to provide 
evidence of this, Id take it into account in my final decision.
Mr L accepted the provisional decision in principle but has asked for his additional borrowing 
costs to be taken into account. Hes provided copies of his bank statements from 1 April to 
31 December 2020 to show the interest hes been charged,
Sainsburys also accepted the decision although it did not accept that it was responsible for 
all of the interest charges incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no clear information on any particular point, or the information available is 
incomplete or disputed, then Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, or in 
other words whats more likely than not to have happened taking into account the 
information available and the wider circumstances of the case.
The facts of this complaint were set out in my provisional decision and I wont repeat them again. However Im pleased to see that since my provisional decision, Sainsburys has now 
confirmed that it has located the funds.
I note Sainsburys feels it could have located the money sooner if Barclaycard had provided 
details of the returned payment sooner. I cant comment on that but its clear the funds had 
been returned to Sainsburys in April 2020 and I can understand Mr Ls frustration that its 
taken so long to track them down. However, the money has now been located and I can see 
Sainsburys made an initial payment to Mr L on 28 January 2021.
Putting things right
The amount of the missing funds was £1,984.31. The payment made on 28 January was 
£1,882.76. Sainsburys has said that this was in line with its policy on account refunds which 
is to deduct any outstanding balance before crediting the refund. However, while that may be 
mechanism for making an refund in accordance with the accounts terms and conditions, I 
confirm that the total amount to be refunded is £1,984.31. With regard to whether the 
amount paid is correct I would ask Sainsburys to liaise with Mr L to confirm its calculations.
In my provisional decision I said that Sainsburys must also compensate Mr L for the fact he 
hasnt had the use of the missing funds since 31 March 2020. For that reason, I proposed 
Sainsburys should also pay Mr L £200 compensation as well as interest at 8% on the 
missing funds from 31 March to the date of repayment. I havent seen anything to cause me 
to change my view on this. I should add that, although Sainsburys has actually paid Mr L a 
lower amount on 28 January, the interest should be calculated on the actual amount of the 
missing funds, that is the £1984.31. 
I also said that I would take into account any additional costs incurred by Mr L as a result of 
having to borrow against the missing funds. Mr L has now provided details of his bank 
account showing the interest hed had to pay as result of running a much higher overdraft to 
cover the missing money. Ive taken this into account but the position on the interest is more 
complicated than this statement suggests. I can see that on 14 April Mr L was able to reduce 
his overdraft to £745 but it then went up significantly and at times was running at more than 
£2,700. On that basis its clear that the interest charges for this account arent wholly 
attributable to the missing cheque but, nevertheless, I agree that Mr L will have paid some 
extra interest as a result of whats happened.
In the circumstances I dont consider that it would be fair to direct Sainsburys to pay all of the 
interest incurred between 1 April and the date of repayment. Ive also taken into account the 
fluctuations in Mr Ls overdraft over this time and the difficulties that presents in calculating 
precisely how much additional interest was due to what happened. For that reason, Ive 
decided that it would be reasonable for Sainsburys to make a contribution of £120 towards 
the additional interest incurred rather than to calculate the exact sum due. I consider thats 
fair when taken together with the interest to be added to the returned funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to
a) Return £1,984.31 to Mr L together with interest at 8% simple from 31 March 2020 to 
the date of repayment.
b) Pay Mr L £200 compensation (in addition to the £50 already paid) for the upset and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in locating these funds.
c) Pay Mr L £120 towards the additional interest hes incurred as a result of having to 
borrow against the missing funds.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman