DRN-4171956
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited wouldnt offer them a 
new interest rate product on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage in July 2007 with lender G. They borrowed just under 
£166,000 on an interest only basis over a term of 35 years. 
The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate of 7.14% for the first three years. After that, the 
interest rate changed to a variable rate, at 2.49% above the Barclays Bank base rate (base 
rate) for the remaining term. The base rate was 5.50% when the mortgage offer was issued, 
so the variable rate payable at that time would have been 7.99%. 
The initial fixed rate came to an end in July 2010, and since then Mr and Mrs W have been 
paying interest at the variable rate.
In May 2016 the mortgage was transferred from lender G to Kensington.
The contact notes show in November 2021 Kensington received a request for its consent for 
a second charge to be granted against the property, indicating that Mr and Mrs W had 
looked into borrowing further secured funds at that time, albeit it doesnt appear they went 
through with the application.
In September 2022 Mrs W asked Kensington for a new interest rate product on the 
mortgage. Kensington said it had no products available to Mr and Mrs W, but they could 
apply for a new mortgage through an independent financial adviser or a mortgage broker. Mr 
and Mrs W went on to consult an independent adviser and then Mrs W called back in 
October 2022 as the broker had been unable to help them.
On 3 October 2022 Mr and Mrs W complained to Kensington.
Kensington said that because the mortgage was taken out with a different lender it didnt 
have the functionality to vary the existing mortgage product. It said that if, in the future, 
Mr and Mrs W were concerned that they will be unable to maintain their payments then they 
should contact Kensington so it could explore what support options are available.
Unhappy with Kensingtons response Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator initially concluded that Kensington hadnt treated Mr and Mrs W fairly when 
it didnt offer them a new rate when they asked for one in 2022. He recommended that it 
re-work their mortgage in such a way that it reflected an interest rate product that would 
have been available to them in October 2022.
Mr and Mrs W accepted that, but Kensington did not and it provided some further reasons 
why it said Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have been eligible for a new interest rate product in 
October 2022.
Our Investigator considered that information and issued his revised opinion on the complaint. 
He said that because Mr and Mrs W had an outstanding fees balance (from historical 
arrears) of around £1,500 then they didnt meet Kensingtons eligibility criteria for obtaining a 
new interest rate product as that stated such a balance had to be £85 or less.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept our Investigators revised opinion and so the case was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage say that, once the fixed interest rate ended in 2010, 
interest would be charged throughout the remainder of the term at a premium above the 
base rate. There is nothing in their mortgage offer or terms and conditions which obliges 
Kensington to offer them a new rate at any time. 
That means that Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage has operated as it should have done, in line with 
the terms and conditions they agreed to when they took it out. 
I recognise that its fairly common in the mortgage market for lenders to offer existing 
customers new preferential interest rates at intervals during the mortgage. And that its 
common for buyers to shop around  either by taking a new rate with their existing lender, or 
by moving to a new lender.
I accept that, in this case, it wasnt realistically possible for Mr and Mrs W to move to another 
lender. They have an interest only mortgage that runs many years past their state pension 
ages, and their age and finances were such that its not likely theyd have passed another 
lenders affordability check.
That means their only way of getting a new rate was if Kensington offered them one. 
However, while  as Ive said  its common for lenders to do that, not all lenders do make 
new rates available to existing customers. And theres no rule  either in law, or in mortgage 
regulation  that says a lender has to do so.
Prior to 2017, Kensington did not make new rates available to any of its customers. It was 
not required to do so. Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage continued to operate on its existing terms 
and conditions, as theyd been told it would. And they were in the same situation as all other 
Kensington customers. In those circumstances, I dont think it was unfair that Kensington 
didnt make new rates available to Mr and Mrs W.
In 2017, Kensington did start to make new interest rates available to some existing 
customers. As I say, it wasnt obliged to do so  but from 2017, it chose to do so.
Where a lender chooses to make new interest rates available, it should treat any application 
for a new rate fairly. Its not unreasonable to have eligibility criteria  meaning that not all 
customers get the same rate, and even that some customers are not eligible for rates at all  
but this should be done on a fair basis.Kensington has said that Mr and Mrs W failed to meet three parts of its eligibility criteria for 
new preferential interest rates in that:
The mortgage didnt originate with Kensington.
The reversion margin on any potential new product is higher than the reversion 
margin of their current product. By that Kensington means that Mr and Mrs Ws 
current variable rate is base rate plus 2.49%, whereas any potential new product 
would revert (after the fixed rate period) to Kensingtons variable rate plus 4%.
Mr and Mrs W had an outstanding fees balance of more than £85.
Kensingtons policy in 2022 meant that Mr and Mrs W had to stay on their existing variable 
interest rate, move their mortgage to another lender, or re-apply to Kensington as new 
borrowers and take a new mortgage with it.
Mr and Mrs W consulted a mortgage adviser, as Kensington suggested. Mr and Mrs W have 
said that their personal and financial situation meant their broker was unable to find an 
alternative mortgage for them. This led to this complaint being made; Mr and Mrs W have no 
other options and are trapped on their variable interest rate as their circumstances are such 
that they dont meet other lenders requirements in order for them to borrow as much as they 
need to repay the Kensington mortgage.
I need to decide whether, in all the circumstances, the reasons Kensington gave were a fair 
and reasonable basis on which to refuse Mr and Mrs W a new interest rate product.
In thinking about this, Ive taken account of the rules, provisions and guidelines of mortgage 
regulation, known as MCOB. MCOB 11.8.1 E says:
When a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary the 
terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the 
existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a new 
mortgage lender or home purchase provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example, by 
offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the customers 
situation or treat the customer any less favourably than it would treat other customers with 
similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of 
Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6 says
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
In MCOB 11.8.1 E, the suffix E means that this is an evidential provision, not a rule. 
Conduct of the sort set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness  but equally it may 
not, depending on the individual circumstances. The provision is clearly intended to ensure 
that borrowers who cant shop around for a better deal arent taken advantage of or treated 
less favourably than those who can.Kensington says it wasnt offering new interest rate products to any customers whose 
mortgages didnt originate with it, and for those where the reversionary rate would be higher 
on the new mortgage product. In effect, it is saying it treated Mr and Mrs W the same as all 
its other customers who were in their position  that is, those who took out their mortgage 
originally with lender G and were on a variable rate that was lower than the reversionary 
variable rate on any potential new product.
I dont consider this was a fair and reasonable approach for Kensington to have taken. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E is intended to ensure that customers who have similar characteristics arent 
treated differently  and I dont think that who the original mortgage was with is a 
characteristic of a customer on which its reasonable to rely in deciding which customers will 
be offered another preferential rate many years later.
Im also not persuaded by Kensingtons argument about the new products reversionary rate 
being higher than the variable rate Mr and Mrs W are currently on. Thats because, under 
11.8.1 E, there should be no reason for Mr and Mrs W to move to that reversionary rate 
because it follows that if it would have been fair to give Mr and Mrs W a new rate in 2022 
then it would likely also be fair for Mr and Mrs W to get another new rate when the 2022 
preferential rate ends.
As I dont think either of the first two reasons should have been a barrier to Mr and Mrs W 
obtaining a new rate in 2022 I now turn to the third reason, that is that Mr and Mrs W had an 
outstanding fees balance of more than £85 (their outstanding fees balance was over 
£1,000).
Going back to MCOB 11.8.1 E, I dont think it was unfair for Kensington to say that is a 
reason why Mr and Mrs W werent eligible for a new interest rate product as having an 
outstanding fee balance due to historical arrears is a characteristic of a customer on which 
its reasonable to rely in deciding which customers will be offered another preferential rate.
However, acting fairly and reasonably, Kensington ought to have told Mr and Mrs W that the 
outstanding fees balance was a barrier to them obtaining a new rate.
Our Investigator explored this point with Mr and Mrs W over the phone. He asked Mrs W if 
theyd been offered a fixed interest rate at the time, but it was higher than the rate they were 
already on, whether they would have taken it. To which Mrs W only replied that there was a 
possibility they might have done so. Later in that call Mrs W told our Investigator that theyd 
cashed in Mr Ws pension to repay some other debts to reduce their outgoings and enable 
them to afford the mortgage each month. They said this would impact their retirement.
In terms of paying the outstanding fees balance (of over £1,000) Mr and Mrs W told our 
Investigator that they might have decided to pay it. Mrs W reiterated that Mr W had to cash 
in a pension so that they could pay off some debts and lower their monthly outgoings, which 
would have an effect on their retirement. She said to pay the fees balance they could have 
looked at borrowing the money from a relative or cashing in more of Mr Ws pension.
Mr and Mrs W have said they were making some small monthly payments towards the 
outstanding fees balance. Those payments were £10 a month from February to May 2021, 
£20 a month in June and July 2021, and then £30 a month from August 2021 until February 
2022. Those payments then stopped in March 2022 when Mr and Mrs Ws contractual 
monthly payment increased from £380 to £414.
To get a new fixed interest rate product Mr and Mrs W would have had to pay a lump sum of 
over £1,000 to clear the fees balance and agree to a higher interest rate than they were paying at that time. If I set that against the fact theyd already drawn money from Mr Ws 
pension to clear some debts to make the (lower) mortgage payment affordable, and the 
information Ive set out above, Im not persuaded it is more likely than not (which is the test I 
must use) that they would have chosen to go ahead in October 2022.
Even in April 2023, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs W only said it was possible they would 
have opted for a higher rate product, rather than they definitely would have done so. And in 
terms of the fees balance, again with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs W only said they may 
have paid it in full, rather than they definitely would have done so. Whilst with the benefit of 
hindsight it might have been better for Mr and Mrs W to take a fixed rate which was higher 
than their current variable rate  to guard against future rate rises  that couldnt have been 
known at the time. I must bear in mind that Mr and Mrs W were struggling to pay the lower 
(variable) amount in deciding whether they would have chosen to pay a higher (but fixed) 
amount based on what they knew at the time. 
To uphold this complaint I need to not only decide that Kensington did something wrong, but 
also what I think Mr and Mrs W would have done differently had nothing gone wrong. 
Unfortunately, there simply isnt enough here for me to say it is more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs W would have chosen to pay the fees balance, been able to raise the funds to 
pay it and done so on the understanding their new interest rate would be higher than the one 
they were currently being charged.
I understand from Kensington that, despite being aware that this was a barrier to them 
getting a new rate since April 2023, Mr and Mrs W still havent paid the fees balance, which 
again doesnt support that they would have chosen to - and been able to  pay it in October 
2022 had they been aware that was a barrier to getting a new rate. However, if they now pay 
the fees balance off I would expect Kensington to consider any new rate application fairly, 
and not use the other two points as a reason to reject it. If Mr and Mrs W pay the fees 
balance and are then subsequently turned down by Kensington for a new rate then thats a 
new complaint they could make at the time.
Finally, Mr and Mrs W said to our service that it would have been helpful if Kensington had 
provided some options, such as a mortgage holiday or reduced payments for a period of 
time. As that didnt form part of the original complaint that was made I cant consider it here. 
Although I would say, as Kensington said in its response to the complaint, if Mr and Mrs W 
are struggling with their payments then they should call Kensington and it can go through the 
options that are available for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman