DRN-4065792
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not stop all gambling 
transactions following a gambling freeze being placed on his account.  
What happened
Mr M applied a gambling freeze to his Halifax account, that would stop all gambling 
transactions being processed. To test this, he made a series of large transactions to a 
merchant Ill call C for the purposes of this decision. He received a text from Halifax for 
each transaction confirming they had been declined due to the freeze on his account. 
However, when he checked his account on C later that day, he found that some of the 
payments had been processed totalling £30,000 and he went on to spend this money. 
Mr M later attempted to make another series of payments to C and again received texts 
confirming these had been declined due to the freeze on the account. However, when he 
checked his account with C, one of them had gone through successfully. He raised a 
complaint about this, and Halifax issued a final response letter explaining that the payments 
had been processed as investment transactions and not gambling ones. Because of this, the 
freeze had not stopped them. 
Mr M referred the complaint to our service as he did not agree with Halifaxs final response 
letter. He did not understand how the payments could have gone through after he received a 
text confirming they were declined due to the freeze. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. They explained that the transactions had been 
processed under gambling merchant codes, which categorise payments and these are set 
by the merchant, in this case C. These were then declined by Halifax due to the gambling 
freeze. However, shortly afterwards the merchant re-categorised some of the merchant 
codes to investment related payments, meaning the second time around they were not 
blocked by the gambling freeze. As this was down to the merchant and not Halifax, they did 
not agree that Halifax had made an error in processing the transactions. 
However, the Investigator did feel that Halifax should have flagged Mr Ms spending as 
unusual as early as around May 2022, when he was making large payments daily. As they 
felt more should have been done to monitor his account that could have led to him getting 
support at an earlier stage, they recommended £500 compensation. 
Halifax eventually agreed to this, however Mr M still felt Halifaxs system should not have 
informed him the payments had been declined, especially as he was vulnerable at the time. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in 
more detail. Ive firstly considered the gambling freeze and whether Halifax made an error 
when processing the payments to C. 
Halifax has provided evidence showing that all of the transactions were initially declined by 
them, as the merchant codes had been categorised by C as gambling. Therefore, under the 
gambling freeze Halifax declined these and correctly informed Mr M of this. 
Following this, C re-categorised some of the merchant codes from gambling related codes to 
investment related ones. Due to this re-categorisation, the transactions were no longer 
caught by the gambling freeze. This is because the gambling freeze relies on the 
categorisation codes alone and is not able to block payments to specific merchants. While I 
understand and appreciate this has circumvented the freeze that Mr M put in place to try and 
help curb his gambling issues, I cant agree that Halifax has made an error. It has correctly 
blocked transactions that it has been told by the merchant are gambling transactions and it 
has then processed transactions it has been told by the merchant are investment 
transactions. 
I can understand why Mr M is unhappy, as this process meant he was informed the 
payments had been declined and he thought this was final. Id like Mr M to know that Ive 
fully taken into consideration all of his comments about how this affected him as a vulnerable 
individual. But I have to also balance this with what Halifax system was able to do at the 
time. Having carefully considered how the gambling freeze system was set up, keeping in 
mind its limitations, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have done more in the 
circumstances. And it is not within my remit to comment on how Halifax has chosen to set up 
their payment systems. 
Ive gone on to consider if Halifax could have seen that Mr M was struggling at an earlier 
stage and therefore could have offered him help and support.
Looking at Mr Ms account history, it was not unusual for him to make relatively large 
transfers on occasion. These were often either to his business or a separate account in his 
name within Halifax. So, I dont necessarily think it was out of character for Mr M to make 
large transactions. However, I can see that towards the end of February 2022, there are a 
series of large credits to his account, followed immediately by four transfers out totalling 
£8,000 to C, and a further £10,000 out to C the following day. And I consider the speed and 
the quantity of these transfers to be reasonably suspicious. 
There are then some more sporadic payments to C as well as other similar companies. At 
the beginning of May Mr M again sent £15,000 to C over two transactions in one day which 
depleted the majority of the account balance. The same day he credited the account with a 
directors loan of £20,000 and then again depleted most of the balance by paying £20,000 to 
C in two transactions the following day. The speed, quantity and value of the transactions to 
C, totalling £35,00 in just two days, I think should reasonable have flagged on Halifaxs 
systems. As I think the transactions could be interpreted as behaviour that is showing 
vulnerable traits. 
While I do acknowledge that Halifax did telephone Mr M on 1 June in relation to high value 
transactions that had flagged on their system, these were almost a month after those 
highlighted above, and also were after Mr M placed the gambling freeze on the account. So I 
do think that Halifax missed an opportunity to provide support to Mr M at an earlier stage. 
It is therefore disappointing that Halifax did not apply friction to Mr Ms ability to spend compulsively sooner, either by applying a gambling freeze at an earlier time or signposting 
him to organisations that could support him. On balance, I think the recommendation of £500 
compensation in recognition of this failure to offer support earlier is reasonable and in line 
with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I direct Halifax to pay Mr M £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the not offering support to him sooner. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay 
£500 compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman