DRN-3320344
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the significant premium increases in the pet insurance policy 
Insurance Factory Ltd (IFL) is responsible for selling to her.
On 2 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision. For ease I've copied the relevant extract 
below. I said: 
What happened
Mrs L took out a lifetime policy for her pet in 2017 for an annual premium of around £336. 
The premium increased over the next two years and was around £428 at renewal in 2019. 
During that policy year Mrs L claimed for some vets treatment for her dog. At the following 
renewal, in 2020, Mrs Ls premium had increased to around £835. She complained. Her 
premium increased again in 2021 to around £1,628 and she complained about the scale of 
that increase again.
In response to Mrs Ls complaint in 2020 IFL acknowledged that it could have done more to 
make Mrs L aware at the point of sale that her policy could be subject to such significant 
premium increases. So IFL offered her £150 compensation because it hadn't done that. 
Mrs L didn't think that went far enough and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He considered the entire complaint against the policy insurer, 
which is a different business to IFL. He said that while he felt the insurer had calculated the 
premium fairly, it could have done more to let Mrs L know, at the point of sale, that the 
premium could be subject to a significant increase. So he said the insurer should increase 
the compensation to £500.
The insurer didn't agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
For the reasons set out below I decided that Mrs Ls complaint about the information given at 
point of sale should be set up against IFL rather than the policy underwriter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IFL is an insurance broker and intermediary not an insurer. So it sells policies and might help 
with their admin. But it doesn't provide the cover itself. That is the responsibility of the 
insurer.
IFL is responsible for the sale of the policy to Mrs L. So any concerns about the sale of the 
policy is for IFL alone to address. But IFL also administers the policy and when it does so, it 
acts on behalf of the insurer. So any complaint about the administration of the policy, 
including decisions about the calculation of the premiums, remains the responsibility of the 
insurer. Thats the case, even where IFL has taken that action on the insurers behalf. And 
as the insurer is a separate business to IFL and weve looked at Mrs Ls complaint about the 
premium setting under a separate reference number, I don't intend to comment further on 
that point in this decision.
IFL has previously acknowledged that at the point of sale, she wasn't given enough 
information to let her know that her policy might be subject to significant premium increases. 
And its offered her £150 compensation to address that. So, the key thing for me to consider 
now is whether or not its done enough to put things right. And, after thinking about this very 
carefully I don't think it has.
Lifetime pet policies of the type that IFL sold to Mrs L tend to be comprehensive in nature. 
And their key selling point is that they will cover pets for ongoing medical problems they 
might develop after the policy has been taken out. So they tend to be more expensive than 
other policies available on the market.
Premiums for pet policies will usually increase as the pet ages. But, particularly for lifetime 
policies, its also usual for the premium to increase in response to a claim. That is, once a 
pet has a medical condition its likely that it poses a higher risk to the insurer. And, as a 
result, the insurer will reflect that increased risk in the premiums they charge going forward. 
So its important that potential policyholders are aware of that when they buy the lifetime 
policy.
In this case IFL has accepted that not enough was done to make Mrs L aware of this 
potential for steep premium increases when she took out her policy. So I need to think about 
what is fair redress to put things right.
Mrs L didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. She could have bought a cheaper yearly policy. 
But those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets suffered 
with a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As a result, if 
a pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have to bear the 
full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place.
In this instance it seems Mrs L was looking for a lifetime policy. And she was clearly happy 
enough with the initial premium IFL quoted, as she bought the policy. And as premium rises 
of this type are common across the market I think its likely that Mrs L would have still bought 
the policy IFL sold to her, as thats the type of policy she was looking for. So I don't think 
shed have done much different if shed received more information at the point of sale.
But I can understand that, when her premium increased fairly dramatically in 2020, it came 
as something of a shock to her. And Mrs Ls told us that, following the premium increase in 
2021 while she did renew the policy, the premium has become unaffordable and she intends 
to cancel it.
If Mrs L had received more information about the possibility of such significant increases 
when she was initially buying the policy, its likely she wouldnt have been as surprised when 
this happened, and so she wouldnt have been upset by this to the extent that she was. She 
would also have been aware that she might one day be in a position where she couldnt 
afford to carry on with the policy and would have to make a difficult decision about what to 
do. So to address her distress and inconvenience arising from that I think its fair that IFL 
pays her a total of £300. I appreciate that sum is less than our investigator recommended. 
But I think the amount is fair and reasonable as its in line with awards I make in other cases 
of similar seriousness.
Neither Mrs L nor IFL provided any further comment.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
As neither IFL nor Mrs L objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Insurance Factory Ltd to pay 
Mrs L compensation totalling £300 to address her distress and inconvenience. If it has 
already paid her £150 then it only need pay her a further £150. But if it didn't make the 
previous payment of £150 then it needs to pay her £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman