DRN-3772761
The complaint
Mr R complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made under his 
home insurance after a fire at his property.
What happened
Mr R has been represented in making this complaint by a family member. He has a home 
insurance policy underwritten by Fairmead, which covers his house and its contents, 
amongst other things.
Mr R made a claim in late July 2020 after a fire which started in one of the bedrooms at the 
house caused significant damage to the property.
Mr Rs representative tells us that there were delays in Fairmead agreeing to cover 
alternative accommodation costs for the family. That meant they had to borrow money to pay 
hotel costs for a few weeks after the fire.
She also tells us that the family had to find their own alternative accommodation because 
Fairmead struggled to find a suitable property, given that some family members had health 
issues which affected their mobility.
Fairmead sent a loss adjustor to inspect the property and then got a quote from their 
preferred contractors for the necessary repairs at around £47,000. Mr R wasnt happy with 
this and wanted to use his own contractors, who quoted for the repairs at a cost of around 
£70,000.
Mr R wanted to use his own contractors and asked for a cash settlement. On the basis of the 
agreed schedule of works put together by Fairmeads surveyors, a cash settlement of almost 
£51,000 was agreed and paid to Mr R. This included a contingency (around £4,000) for 
unforeseen work which might prove necessary once the repairs were underway.
In early 2021, Mr R asked Fairmead to consider paying for additional work at the house, 
much of which had already been carried out by his contractors.
Mr R wanted Fairmead to pay around an extra £20,000 for repairs. He said it had become 
apparent these additional repairs were necessary as the original repair work proceeded. He 
also asked Fairmead to pay for fitted wardrobes in the bedrooms, at a further cost of around 
£20,000.
Fairmead declined to pay the extra costs. They said their original schedule of works covered 
replacing fitted wardrobes in one of the bedrooms, but the others didnt have fitted 
wardrobes before the fire.
And they pointed out that when the claim was cash settled, theyd said that any extra work 
which wouldnt be covered by the contingency already included would need to be authorised 
with them first.
Mr R made a complaint to Fairmead. And when they maintained their position, he brought 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought the additional repairs were for damage which was consistent with - 
and likely caused by  the fire. So, she asked Fairmead to re-consider those elements of the 
additional claim. And to pay 8% simple interest on any further settlement paid to Mr R.
Fairmead disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision. This 
allowed both Fairmead and Mr R an opportunity to provide any more information or evidence 
and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision on this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The alternative accommodation
Fairmead have paid for the alternative accommodation used by the family. A cash 
settlement was agreed and the initial hotel costs have been covered.
It wasnt unreasonable for Fairmead to take a few weeks at the outset to accept the 
claim, in all the circumstances. Theres no evidence and no real suggestion that this 
caused Mr R or his family any financial loss or hardship.
And given the very specific needs the family had, its not surprising that Fairmeads 
agents struggled at first to find a suitable property - or that the family found a property 
suitable for them before the agents did.
So, Im satisfied Fairmead did nothing unfair or unreasonable in the way they dealt 
with the requirement for alternative accommodation in this case.
The additional repair costs
The original schedule of works was put together on the basis of assessments of the 
damage at the property carried out by qualified loss adjusters. And it was agreed with 
Mr R as the basis for the cash settlement.
Fairmead acknowledged the fact that repair work such as this can sometimes throw 
up surprises, with further damage or difficulties becoming apparent only when the 
work is underway. This was why they agreed to include a contingency in the cash 
settlement  which was, again, agreed by Mr R.
The advice Fairmead had from their qualified agent at the time was that the 
contingency would cover any plausible and reasonable further costs which came up 
as the work was underway.
Im aware that if Fairmeads own contractors had carried out the work  which 
Fairmead were happy to instruct them to do  then the costs of any and all additional 
work which proved necessary would have been picked up by them.The additional £20,000 of costs put forward by Mr R includes things which any loss 
adjuster or surveyor would very likely have picked up routinely as part of the original 
inspection of the damage at the property. For example, water damage to the cellar at 
the house - which was in any case two floors below the seat of the fire.
They include the significant cost of raising the roof over the loft room. Its not 
immediately apparent  without further detailed justification - why that would be 
necessary and why it wouldnt simply constitute improvement of the property rather 
than restoration to the pre-fire state.
They also appear to include things which were included in the schedule of works 
and/or alternatives to the repairs specified in the schedule. For example, replacement 
of items which were to be repaired. In which case, some if not all of the repair costs 
in the original schedule would need to be offset against the cost of the alternative.
The £20,000 cost of the fitted wardrobes seems on the face of it excessive. It also 
includes fitted wardrobes in bedrooms which appeared not to have them previously, 
according to the loss adjustor  and the photographic evidence taken just after the 
fire. Replacement of the fitted wardrobes in the one bedroom which appears to have 
had them was included in the schedule of works  and the cost was included in the 
cash settlement.
In that context, I cant see that Fairmead have acted in any way unfairly on 
unreasonably towards Mr R by declining to pay any of the £40,000 extra costs as yet. 
They havent been provided with evidence to show that the additional repairs were 
necessary and/or were required due to damage caused by the fire.
My view on this point is reinforced when I look at the communication between 
Fairmead and Mr R around the time of the cash settlement.
This is important because in the complaint made to us, Mr Rs representative says 
that they decided to give the go-ahead to the contractor to carry out some of the 
additional work, without getting approval or agreement from Fairmead in advance, 
because:
I wasnt quite sure how extra works are authorised if they havent been 
seen by the insurance company or someone on their behalf
This is difficult to square with the email sent to the representative in November 2020 
by the loss adjustor, which set out the terms of the cash settlement. This said 
(amongst other things):
If any additional works become apparent during the reinstatement, these are 
to be reported to ourselves / insurers asap with full evidence and details to 
review and until this is done, these costs are not authorised.
No additional costs will be agreed if they are not submitted prior to being 
incurred for approval.
As I say above, the additional works which Mr R is now asking Fairmead to pay for 
appear, on the face of it, to be either: unrelated to damage caused to the home by 
the fire; or improvements to the home rather than restoration to the condition it was in 
before the fire; or already accounted for in the schedule of works which underpinned 
the cash settlement.It's impossible now for Fairmead to assess or check whether that is in fact true, 
because the repairs have been carried out. In other words, Fairmead cant verify the 
costs now being claimed  nor indeed could anyone else.
Given their communication to Mr Rs representative about the cash settlement 
(quoted above), I cant reasonably conclude that Fairmead have acted unfairly in 
declining to cover the additional costs put forward by Mr R.
In summary, the parties agreed a cash settlement  after both contractors had 
inspected the property and quoted for the work. That settlement included a 
contingency for unforeseen work. And Fairmead were absolutely clear that if any 
additional work - not covered by that contingency  proved necessary, Mr R would 
need to seek their approval before the work commenced.
Mr R then went ahead and had additional work carried out without approval by 
Fairmead, which denied them the opportunity to assess and verify the additional 
costs.
So, given the evidence they currently have, its not unfair for Fairmead to decline 
payment for the additional costs. If Mr R can provide any further  and persuasive - 
evidence that the additional work was related to the fire, isnt betterment and wasnt 
included in Fairmeads original costings, then Im sure Fairmead will consider it.
And, on that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead responded to my provisional decision simply to confirm that they had nothing 
further to add.
Mr Rs representative responded in some detail. Ill attempt to summarise her points below.
She says the surveyors who inspected the property after the fire couldnt reasonably have 
been expected to know the full extent of the damage given that they couldnt see what lay 
underneath the surface. As she put it, they didnt have X-ray vision. The full extent of the 
required repairs only became obvious once the builders had stripped out the damage.
She says she provided evidence  to Fairmead and then to us  that the bedrooms at the 
property had fitted wardrobes. She sent plans of the bedrooms which show where the fitted 
wardrobes were situated in each room.
She says she asked the loss adjuster appointed by Fairmead to visit he property, talk to the 
contractors and assess whether the additional work was in fact required. And only approved 
the work, in the absence of any visit or approval from the loss adjuster, after some delay and 
because the house needed to be made safe.
And she says that was the point she was trying to make when she said  as quoted in my 
provisional decision  that she wasnt sure how extra works were authorised if they hadnt 
been seen by the insurer or someone acting on their behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr Rs representative is, of course, right to say that the surveyor couldnt be absolutely sure 
whether there were additional works which might need to be carried out when they inspected 
the property immediately after the fire. Thats why Fairmead included in the cash settlement 
a contingency of around £4,000.
However, the surveyor could be expected to have noticed, at that inspection, if the cellar  
two floors below the seat of the fire - had been damaged by water to the extent that the 
significant additional works undertaken by Mr Rs contractor were necessary.
And as I said in my provisional decision, the surveyor did confirm to Fairmead that the 
contingency would cover any plausible and reasonable further costs which came up as the 
work was underway. 
If I were to conclude that the surveyor has been wrong about that, Id need to have 
persuasive evidence that the additional works were in fact necessary and were addressing 
issues caused by the fire. 
Mr Rs representative hasnt provided any such evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, despite being explicitly invited to do so. For example, she hasnt provided any 
comment at all on why it was necessary to raise the roof in the loft because of damage 
caused by the fire.
As I said in my provisional decision, if any evidence can be provided to Fairmead which 
demonstrates that the additional work was a necessary response to the fire damage and 
explains why it wasnt picked up by the original survey, Im sure they will consider it. But I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong in declining to pay for the additional works as things 
stand.
As for the £20,000 claimed for fitted wardrobes, I was aware of the plans Mr Rs 
representative refers to in her response to my provisional decision. They are partly hand-
sketched plans of the bedrooms showing where the wardrobes were placed.
Theyre not photographs and I dont think anyone would suggest they prove that the 
wardrobes in each room were in fact fitted.
They also stand in direct opposition to the surveyors assessment at the time (just after the 
fire) and the photographs they took of at least some of the rooms in question  which appear 
to show wardrobes which are either free-standing or, possibly, bolted to the walls, but which 
are not fitted.
Leaving all of that aside, the key point here is that the schedule of works agreed by Mr R as 
the basis for the cash settlement included a sum for the replacement of fitted wardrobes in 
one of the bedrooms. That would suggest Mr R knew what Fairmeads settlement was 
intended to cover - and accepted it at the time.
I understand that the loss adjuster didnt respond to Mr Rs representatives request in the 
way she wished. And there may have been some minor delays. However, it was absolutely 
clear in the cash settlement agreement that Fairmead would not pay for any additional works 
if they hadnt had the opportunity to approve them.
Mr R nonetheless  and within a relatively short time  went ahead and had the work carried 
out by his contractor. Im satisfied he would have known, at that time, that Fairmead hadnt 
approved the works. And he knew  or should have known  that Fairmead werent therefore 
going to pay for the additional works, in line with the terms of the cash settlement 
agreement.I said in my provisional decision that the additional works claimed by Mr R appeared on the 
face of it to be either: unrelated to damage caused to the home by the fire; or improvements 
to the home rather than restoration to the condition it was in before the fire; or already 
accounted for in the schedule of works which underpinned the cash settlement.
Nothing Ive been told by Mr Rs representative in response to my provisional decision has 
altered my view on that. And, as I said, if Mr R wants Fairmead to re-consider his claim, he 
will need to provide them with persuasive and credible evidence that the additional works 
were to address damage caused by the fire, were not simply improvements to the home 
unrelated to the fire and werent covered in the original cash settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman