DRN-1987479
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf on Company M, is unhappy Starling Bank Limited blocked and closed 
Company Ms account and is withholding the money contained within it. Company M would 
like the money released and compensation for the damage caused. 
What happened
Mr S is the director of Company M. Starling Bank emailed Mr S on 25 November 2019 to let 
him know Company Ms account had been flagged for a review and had been temporarily 
restricted. Starling Bank asked Mr S to answer some questions about certain payments into 
the account. Mr S responded to the questions the same day. 
I note Mr Ss personal account was also impacted  this decision is about the action taken in 
relation to Company Ms account though, so I wont be considering what happened to Mr Ss 
personal account. Im just referencing this for completeness and so that Mr S knows Im 
aware of this fact. 
Mr S complained on behalf of Company M on 26 November 2019. He said that the 
explanation hed received so far for the sudden review of the account and the restriction had 
been vague and unhelpful. He said hed done his own research and believed Starling Bank 
was meddling in commercial contracts and the policing of these agreements. He said this 
was likely due to notification from another bank, of false claims made against a company 
that Company M does business with. Mr S pointed out the impact the restriction was having 
on Company M and its ability to operate. 
Mr S chased Starling Bank for a response and explanation and received one on 
11 December 2019. Starling Bank explained that after the review of Company Ms account, it 
had decided to close it. It let him know that it would be retaining the money contained within 
the account. Starling Bank said it wasnt able to provide any further information on the 
decision. A final response was sent the same day reiterating that there was nothing more 
Starling Bank could add on the matter. 
Mr S, on behalf of Company M, referred the complaint to our service. Whilst he was waiting 
for our service to consider the complaint, Starling Bank continued to retain the money in 
Company Ms account and Mr S continued to seek clarity around why. He sent several 
emails to Starling Bank and did a Subject Access Request in order to obtain information. He 
wasnt happy with the response he received in relation to this, so has taken the matter to the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
Mr S feels Starling Bank had instigated a witch hunt against Company M in an attempt to 
cause it financial harm. Hes pointed out that Company M is regulated, and this only 
happens if a company is deemed fit and proper. He says Starling Banks actions has meant 
hes had to start legal proceedings against his own customers, because Starling Bank has 
been telling their banks that Company M is a scam and not to pay. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Company Ms complaint. She concluded that Starling Bank 
was acting in line with the terms and conditions and regulatory obligations when blocking 
and closing the account. She therefore didnt recommend the money in the account be 
released. 
Mr S on behalf of Company M disagreed. He says the outcome demonstrates this services 
bias in favour of the banks and suggests Starling Bank can take a customers money and 
retain it without consequence. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Firstly, Ill deal with Mr Ss concern that the investigators findings demonstrate a bias in 
favour of Starling Bank. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our 
approach is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent 
conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint.
Starling Bank has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at 
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts 
and the activity taking place on them. And part of this might require it to restrict a customers 
access to an account where appropriate. If Starling Bank didnt do this, it could risk serious 
sanction.
Having reviewed whats happened, Im satisfied Starling Bank was entitled to block and 
close Company Ms account when it did and did so in in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations. I understand it may feel to Mr S that this is a witch hunt against 
Company M, but as Ive explained, Starling Bank is obliged to review accounts. From all the 
information Ive seen, I cant agree it did anything wrong here or has acted inappropriately in 
the actions it has taken. 
I do fully appreciate the fact Starling Bank is withholding money is causing Company M a 
great deal of inconvenience and Im sure it feels unfair to Mr S that Starling Bank can just 
retain the money without any explanation as to why. But, having looked at the information 
available to me, I dont think its acting unreasonably or making an error in continuing to 
withhold the money contained within the account. 
Starling Bank also isnt obliged to tell Mr S, on behalf of Company M, why its taking the 
actions it is  as much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
do so.
So, taking everything into account, I cant say Starling Bank has treated Company M unfairly 
or made an error in blocking and closing the account and withholding the money. It therefore 
follows that I wont be asking it to release the money or pay any compensation for the 
difficulties Company M has faced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Company Ms complaint against Starling Bank 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman