DRN-2139495
The complaint
Mr B complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, trading as Honours Student Loans 
(HSL) delayed his deferment application which led to arrears on his student loan. This 
prevented the loan being eligible for cancellation. He also complained that HSL pressured 
him to make payments. 
What happened
Mr B had a student loan which was administered by Honours Student Loans (HNS) on 
behalf of a separate company that I will call S. 
By April 2019, Mr B had had his student loan for 24 years and he had deferred repayment 
throughout that whole period because his income was too low. 
Deferment is assessed annually and an application has to be completed by the customer. Mr 
Bs annual deferment ran out on 9 June 2019. If an application is not completed and 
accepted on time, the deferment period ends and arrears start to be added as the account 
becomes payable.  
Mr B has told us that his deferment application form did not arrive, and so he downloaded 
one from the internet and completed it. He also sent his latest Working Tax Credit letter for 
the period 6 April 2019  5 April 2019. This was the most recent notice he had. 
Unfortunately, the deferment application form was an out of date version, so S sent Mr B a 
new form to complete. They also asked for up to date evidence of benefits and a bank 
statement with his name, address and benefit payment on.
On 9 June 2019 Mr Bs current deferment period ended and arrears started to be added to 
his account.  
On 26 June 2019 S received the completed application but Mr B had not sent the additional 
evidence requested. S wrote back requesting it again. 
On 17 July 2019 S received evidence of Mr Bs housing benefit. They then requested 
evidence of his self-employment. Mr B says they had never requested this in previous years. 
On 29 October 2019 S accepted the evidence provided by Mr B and approved his 
deferment, backdating it to 10 August 2019. However, arrears accrued in June and July  
were not removed, and the impact of this was that Mr Bs loan could not be considered for 
cancellation.  
Mr B complained to HSL that he had previously had all his deferment applications accepted 
on time and had never been asked for the same level of information as this year. He was 
concerned that this was a way of ensuring that the loan could not be cancelled. Mr B also 
complained that he was contacted frequently by HSL during the period June to October, 
which he felt was harassment as he was asked the same questions each time, and was  
pressurised to make payments. 
HSL investigated the complaint. They told Mr B that they are only responsible for 
administering the loan account, and the issuing and processing of deferment applications is 
dealt with by S. They do not have any involvement or influence in the process. 
However, HSL did review the process that was undertaken by S. On the issue of the delay, 
HSL have pointed to the deferment application form, which asks the applicant to provide 
evidence of all forms of income. They also note that the deferment application form states 
that the S have the right under their statutory powers to request further information. 
But, HSL also thought that as Mr B had told S about his Working Tax Credit in May, S should 
have asked about his self-employed income then, and that may have reduced the delay. As 
a gesture of goodwill they therefore backdated the deferment for a further two months, 
cancelling all of the arrears. 
Mr Bs account was then able to be considered for cancellation, and the loan has now been 
cancelled. 
On the issue of the frequency of calls, HSL told Mr B that they were sorry that he felt 
harassed. They were legally obliged to let him know that the account was falling into arrears 
and the contacts were to help him in securing a new deferment.  They were satisfied that the 
account had been managed in accordance with their terms and conditions, but apologised 
for any frustration caused by the deferment process. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint but found that HSL didnt do anything 
wrong. 
The investigator has also considered the contacts made by HSL and thinks that the contacts 
made by HSL were trying to help Mr B with his application and let him know the position. The 
investigator does not think HSL did anything wrong.   
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the case has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below.
 
The deferment application
HSL are not responsible for processing the deferment application and have no influence 
over any decision to accept or reject an application. I can see that although Mr B sent in his 
application and documents to HSL, they were receiving them on behalf of S and it was S 
who considered the application and wrote to Mr B about the what further information they 
needed. I accept Mr Bs point that there is room for confusion with regard to the process of 
administration of student loans and which business is responsible. However as S is a 
separate entity I am not able to comment or make findings on its part of the process, I am 
only considering the actions of HSL. 
I am therefore unable to agree that HSL were responsible for the delay in processing Mr Bs 
deferment application, as they were not the organisation processing it. 
Whether the requests for additional information were reasonable is a separate issue, and not 
one that I can comment on, as I am unable to consider complaints about S. 
HSLs telephone contact with Mr BI can see from HSLs records that they made 14 calls to Mr Bs mobile phone between 17 
June 2019 and 31 October 2019. HSLs notes record that in each call Mr B was advised of 
the balance and arrears on the account, but also that in each call the deferment application 
was discussed including what information was still needed. 
I can understand that this was a worrying time for Mr B, who already suffered with anxiety, 
and that it is likely that these calls added to his anxiety about getting it sorted out. However, I 
think these calls were also an effort on the part of HSL to try and assist Mr B with the 
deferment application and I dont think that the contacts were excessive or unreasonable in 
the circumstances. I dont agree that they amounted to harassment.  
Mr B has also asked that we look at the wider picture and see if there is a deliberate attempt 
to delay deferment applications to stop loans being cancelled. However, I can only look at Mr 
Bs case, and the impact that the actions of HSL have had on him. 
Mr Bs deferment application has already been granted and backdated and HSL have 
awarded an additional two months backdating so that there are no longer any arrears on the 
account and Mr Bs loan has now been cancelled. I think that this outcome is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
As I have not upheld Mr Bs complaint, I will not be asking HSL to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman