DRN-1793593
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that Simply Insurance Services Limited (SIS) mis-sold him a commercial 
vehicle insurance policy. He's also unhappy with the way it administered the policy.
What happened
Mr D took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy through SIS - a broker. SIS asked Mr D 
to provide a copy of his driving licence and proof of his one year private car No Claims 
Discount (NCD) that he'd advised he had.
Around 11 days later SIS wrote to Mr D chasing the information requested. It also called him 
to ask for this information and Mr D said he'd send it at the weekend. A few days later, the 
finance company who funded the annual premium advised it couldn't use the direct debit 
details Mr D had given, as it was for a savings account.
SIS then wrote to Mr D to say that the policy would be cancelled in seven days if he didn't 
provide new direct debit details. SIS spoke to Mr D on the same day and he provided 
different direct debit details. SIS reminded Mr D on the call that he still needed to provide the 
previously requested information.
Around four weeks later SIS called Mr D as it still hadn't received the information it needed. 
Mr D said that he'd send it at the weekend. SIS called him again a week later and left a 
message to say that it still hadn't received the information. Then a week after that SIS called 
Mr D again to say that it still hadn't received the information. Mr D said that he'd sent it from 
a different email address. SIS then found the email in its spam folder and it sent the 
information to the insurer.
The insurer responded to say the NCD wasn't for Mr D's policy, but for a policy which he was 
a named driver on. And it said it didn't accept this. SIS advised that Mr D will have to pay an 
additional premium and it said it would contact the insurer to find out what it would be. Mr D 
was unhappy he had to chase SIS a number of times to find out what the additional premium 
would be. SIS later advised him that he owed an additional premium of £1,049.98. 
Mr D didn't think this increase in premium was right or fair as he said it equated to an 
increase of around 72%. But he said the one year NCD gave him a discount of 20%. So he 
thinks the premium should only be increased by 20%.
SIS explained that the increase in premium is a combination of the loss of the 20% discount, 
a 15% loading on the insurance premium and a 15% removal of the new business discount 
that it gave him when he first took out the policy.
 
 
 
Mr D complained to SIS and raised the following issues:He maintains he told SIS when he first took out the policy that his NCD came from 
him being a named driver on the policy.
He doesn't think it's fair SIS has taken away the introductory discount.
He's unhappy SIS sent him a cancellation letter for not having correct direct debit 
details, but he'd already resolved it on the telephone. He's also unhappy SIS didn't 
tell him that there were issues with the direct debit details when he first took out the 
policy.
He says he emailed the proof of NCD and driving licence a number of times of times, 
but SIS didn't locate them.
He also says SIS never sent him a certificate of insurance. He says this meant he 
wasn't able to apply for trade plates. And he says this meant he's not been able to 
trade as much as he'd like.
 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2020 not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
"I should first state that I'm only considering the actions of SIS in this complaint. Mr D has 
also complained about the actions of the insurer. But this is being considered in a different 
complaint. So I've not commented on anything the insurer did in this decision - including in 
respect to the way it has charged the additional premium. I don't intend to uphold this 
complaint and I'll now explain why.  
Sale of the policy
Under the Insurance Act 2015, Mr D needed to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer so that it had enough information to assess the level of risk it was willing to provide 
and on what terms. As Mr Ds broker, SIS was required to make this presentation on Mr Ds 
behalf. So it needed to ask Mr D sufficiently clear questions to ensure it had all the relevant 
information to give a fair presentation of the risk.
The insurer charged an additional premium because the proof of NCD Mr D provided was for 
when he was a named driver. Mr D says that he explained this to SIS on the telephone and it 
said that this wouldn't be a problem. But I haven't seen anything to support this.
Mr D initially applied for the insurance policy online and SIS has provided the data Mr D 
gave on this application, which shows that he declared he had one year NCD. Following this 
SIS emailed Mr D and said that it would contact him shortly.  One of SIS's call handlers then 
called Mr D around 15 minutes later and went through the application. In the call, the call 
handler confirmed with Mr D that he had one year NCD and Mr D confirmed that was the 
case.
Mr D says there was another telephone call before this, but I haven't seen anything to 
support this. And I think it's unlikely as the call SIS has provided was made 15 minutes after 
it first emailed him. So I think it's unlikely there would have been another call before this. 
And, as I said, SIS had got the information it had from the online application Mr D completed.
I've also reviewed the online application Mr D completed to see what Mr D was asked. And 
this shows that he was asked to provide his private No Claims Bonus which it described as 
the "No Claims Bonus earned on a private car policy". And I haven't seen anything to show 
that the online application said this can be earned from being a named driver.
Ultimately I haven't seen anything to show that SIS did tell Mr D he could use an NCD from 
being a named driver on another person's policy in this case.Customer service
I note Mr D is unhappy SIS sent him a cancellation letter for not having correct direct debit 
details, as he said he'd already resolved it on the telephone. Firstly, I don't think I can hold 
SIS responsible for the fact the finance company didn't accept Mr D's direct debit details. I 
note Mr D says he sent several emails to update his direct debit details to his current 
account, but I haven't seen anything to support this. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr D to 
receive a notice of cancellation after he'd already resolved this matter. But I'm satisfied that 
SIS had already sent this before it spoke with Mr D. 
I similarly appreciate it was frustrating to Mr D that he'd emailed the proof of his NCD and 
driving licence, but the email went into SIS's junk email folder. So I can't hold it responsible 
for this. It's not unusual for businesses to have filters on their emails. And I can see that it did 
locate the email as soon as Mr D called to say he'd sent them. So I don't think Mr D has lost 
out as a result of this.
Mr D also says that SIS never sent him a certificate of insurance. He says this meant he 
couldn't apply for trade plates, so he says he couldn't trade as much as he'd like. But I can 
see the certificate was issued on 6 December 2018 and it was sent with the other policy 
documents. I'm satisfied that it's most likely SIS did send this. I also haven't seen anything to 
show that Mr D specifically highlighted this with SIS at the time to enable SIS to reissue the 
documents. Ultimately, I haven't seen anything to show that SIS acted unreasonably in this 
respect."
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I don't uphold this complaint 
for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons I;ve set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman