DRN-3708013
The complaint and what happened
Ms C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont fully reimburse money she lost as a result of 
an investment scam. 
Ms C was looking for an investment to make a passive income. She came across an 
opportunity with Nano-Markets  who held themselves out as crypto-trading experts. She 
was contacted by a broker offering an investment opportunity. Between November and 
December 2020 Ms C invested just over £5,000. Ms C realised she had been scammed 
when a promised monthly return never materialised and the broker stopped communicating. 
Ms C complained. On review Barclays agreed some of the payments were out of character 
for the account. But because Ms C hadnt done sufficient due diligence and hadnt correctly 
indicated what the payments were for, it reimbursed 50% of the loss only, plus 8% simple 
interest. 
Our investigator didnt find the bank had done anything wrong as she wasnt persuaded the 
payments were so unusual that the bank ought to have intervened. Ms Cs representative 
has asked for the matter to be reviewed; its argued the payments started off small and 
increased, a known scam pattern, and that payments were higher than other spending on 
the account and made in quick succession. It therefore considers the bank ought to have 
intervened and had it done so Ms C wouldnt have lost her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have broadly come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the 
following reasons:
Under banking regulation and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Ms C  even where they have 
been tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute Ms C authorised the 
transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Having looked at the operation of the account, I agree the payments were out of 
character  but only to some extent. I accept that it was rare that Ms C made 
payments of this amount. But the amount is one of only several factors that might 
indicate a customer is at risk of financial harm. Im mindful here that Ms C often paid 
money into the account for the express reason of making a payment out  the same 
pattern as the payments in dispute. The first payment was made by card to a crypto-
exchange. This payment was for just over £230, comparable with other regular 
spending. Whilst Ms C might never have bought crypto-currency using this account 
before, Im not persuaded this payment ought to have triggered any fraud alerts.  
Although there were other, higher, payments made several weeks later, these were 
not to the same destination; rather they were to a European bank. Barclays couldnt 
have known who or where these payments would ultimately end up or what the final 
destination was or that it was connected to the earlier card payment. And Im mindful 
that Ms C indicated that all of the payments were being made to buy goods, when in 
actual fact she was investing. Its unclear why Ms C never selected the correct option 
when making these payments. 
The representative has also commented on the velocity of payments. Whilst I accept 
there was only a few days between each of the last three payments, there was over 
two weeks between the first smaller payment and the next. 
Overall, Im not necessarily persuaded these transactions were so unusual or so 
uncharacteristic that Barclays ought to have paused any of them pending enquiries. 
Im aware, however, that Barclays did accept some of the payments were out of 
character and for that reason it has reimbursed around 50% of Ms Cs losses and 
added 8% simple interest (less tax). In the circumstances, I find that Barclays has 
already fairly resolved this complaint and it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Finally, I note that Barclays did initially look at a chargeback for the initial payment. 
But as it was to a crypto exchange that had little prospect of success. And it 
contacted the recipient bank within a matter of minutes of the scam being reported. 
As such I satisfied it has fairly attempted to recover Ms Cs losses. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman