DRN-2522696
The complaint
Mr A complains, on behalf of his company that I will refer to as P, that AXA Insurance UK Plc 
avoided (treated it as if it never existed) his shop insurance policy.
What happened
In 2018 Mr A took out a shop insurance policy with AXA to cover the premises for his 
business  P. The policy renewed in February 2019. In June 2019 there was a break in at 
the shop and Mr A made a claim on Ps policy for the stolen stock.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. And during their investigations they 
found Mr A had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) registered against him in July 2018 which 
he hadnt disclosed previously. 
Following this AXA wrote to Mr A to say that it was avoiding Ps policy as he hadnt made a 
fair presentation of Ps risk. It said if the CCJ had been disclosed when the policy was 
renewed, it wouldnt have offered any cover at all. However it said it would refund the policy 
premiums. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. He said that he wasnt aware that he 
had a CCJ. And he said he had arranged credit record searches that didnt show any CCJs 
recorded against him. So he didnt think this was correct. 
AXA didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that when the CCJ had first been raised with him 
by its loss adjuster he had said that it related to an unpaid parking fine. And it was satisfied 
from its own search that there was a CCJ registered against Mr A. So it maintained its 
decision to avoid the policy.
Mr A still didnt agree. He said he did have a parking fine in 2018 and had speculated that 
this could have been the cause but wasnt certain. However he said he couldnt find a record 
of any CCJs registered against him. And as he wasnt aware of the CCJ, then he didnt 
agree that he hadnt made a fair presentation of Ps risk when renewing the policy. He 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that she was satisfied 
Mr A would have been aware of the CCJ when he renewed the policy and should have 
known he should disclose it. So she didnt think AXA acted unfairly by avoiding Ps policy.
Mr A didnt agree this was fair. He said he still couldnt find evidence that he had had a CCJ 
so didnt agree this was the case. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has said that Mr A misrepresented Ps risk by not telling it about a CCJ that was 
registered against him. It says it wouldnt have offered any insurance cover at all if it had 
known about the CCJ. I need to decide if AXA has treated Mr A, on behalf of P, fairly by 
avoiding the policy.
In order to determine this, I have considered the relevant law. Although Mr A originally took 
out the policy for P in 2018, each renewal forms a new insurance contract between P and 
AXA. Therefore I have considered the most recent renewal before the claim was made  in 
February 2019. This renewal is covered by the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mr A renewed the policy for P, he had a duty to make a 
fair presentation of Ps risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the act 
says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that 
would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what 
terms.
In this case I need to consider whether Mr A ought to have known that he should have 
disclosed the CCJ to AXA when renewing the policy.
Mr A has said that he doesnt think there is a CCJ registered against him. He says AXA are 
relying on incorrect information.
AXA has provided the evidence it has relied on, which has been passed onto Mr A. I can see 
that there was a CCJ registered against Mr A in July 2018. So from the information AXA has 
provided Im satisfied that the courts have registered a CCJ against Mr A. If Mr A has 
concerns about the accuracy of this information, he will need to apply to the court to get the 
judgement set aside. But based on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that there was a 
CCJ registered against Mr A.
I want to reassure Mr A that Ive also considered the information he has provided. And I can 
see that the credit searches he has provided dont show a record of any CCJs. However 
from the information provided by AXA I can see that the CCJ was satisfied within one month 
of when it was registered. When a CCJ is satisfied within a calendar month of when its 
notified, it wont always show on a credit file. So the fact it hasnt showed on the searches 
Mr A has carried out isnt enough to persuade me that a CCJ wasnt registered.
I have therefore considered whether Mr A ought to have known the CCJ would have 
influenced AXAs view on offering the policy and therefore known he should have declared it 
at renewal of the policy. 
AXA has provided the Policy Schedule from the February 2019 renewal. At the top of the 
document it explains the insureds obligation to check all the details are correct. It sates:
Please remember that your cover is based on the information that you've given us. We need 
to ensure you have the right cover now and throughout your cover, so please tell us if 
anything changes. If you need to make a claim and any of the details you've given us are 
incorrect, you may not be covered.
Further down the document it states: 
You haven't received a court judgment regarding debt (either as an individual or in
connection with a business). To which the answer is stated as I agree
From the information Ive detailed above, its clear this wasnt a fair presentation of the risk, 
as Mr A had a CCJ registered against him earlier in the year before renewal. While Mr A has 
said he wasnt aware of the CCJ, Im satisfied that it was registered against him. And from 
the information provided, I can see it was paid in full. In order for the CCJ to be settled, Mr A 
would have had to have been notified about it. As it was registered in July 2018 and settled 
in August 2018, Im satisfied he would have been aware of it when he renewed the policy in 
February 2019.
Further, the fact AXA includes a question about CCJs against any individuals connected to 
the business would make it clear to Mr A that this information would influence its decision on 
offering cover. So Im satisfied that Mr A did make a misrepresentation at this renewal.
Under the act, if we conclude that the policyholder didnt provide a fair presentation of risk
then we must go on to assess whether the breach was a qualifying one. This means that if 
the insurer had known all the information, they would have acted differently. Either by
offering different policy terms or by not offering a policy at all. The insurer is only entitled to
take further action if it can show that a qualifying breach has occurred.
AXA has provided its underwriting guidance. This confirms that it would have declined cover 
if it had known about the CCJ. So Im satisfied that there has been a qualifying breach.
Under the Insurance Act, where theres been a qualifying misrepresentation, AXA can avoid 
the policy and refuse any claims. AXA has already agreed to return the policy premiums to 
Mrs A, so Im satisfied its provided a suitable remedy in line with its requirements under the 
act.
For these reasons I think AXA has acted fairly by avoiding Ps policy, so I wont require it to 
do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman