The complaint
Ms F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to make international payments from her 
account.
What happened
Ms F has a current account with Lloyds. For several years she's been making payments 
online to a mortgage account overseas.
In March, June, July and August 2019, Lloyds failed to make these payments until Ms F 
contacted them to say the payment had failed. On each occasion, Ms F complained to 
Lloyds. 
On each occasion, Lloyds apologised for their error, said that they'd sort the issue out and 
covered all the costs Ms F had incurred as a result of the late payment - the payment fee, 
the charge for late payment and the telephone charges Ms F incurred sorting the matter out. 
Lloyds also gave Ms F compensation - £100 on the first two occasions, £400 on the third 
and £700 on the fourth. The increasing compensation reflected the repeated payment 
failures despite Lloyds' telling Ms F that they'd try to avoid the same error in future.
Ms F wasn't happy with this outcome. She says her health has been affected by the on-
going issue. She says her relationship with her sister - who is joint mortgagee on the 
property in question - has broken down. And she says her family cancelled a planned 
holiday to instead travel overseas to make payments direct to the mortgage provider.
So, Ms F complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. Ms F disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no dispute in this case that Lloyds made errors on each occasion the payments 
failed. They've identified that this was due to human error. Online payments overseas are 
initiated by the customer, but the process requires Lloyds staff to manually enter the code for 
the recipient bank. It seems Ms F's payments were routed to the wrong bank, in a different 
country. 
This must have been extremely frustrating for Ms F. And I can see how she'd have felt that 
her reputation with her mortgage provider had been affected. Lloyds have admitted their 
DRN-1318941errors and apologised for them. They've also covered all of Ms F's costs - so she hasn't lost 
out financially.  So, my decision now is solely whether the compensation they've given Ms F 
- £1300 in total - is enough given the trouble and upset she's suffered.
Ms F thinks it isn't. And she gives three main reasons for this. One, her health has suffered. 
Two, her family cancelled their planned holiday. And three, her relationship with her sister 
has broken down. 
Ms F has told us she had health problems before the missed payments occurred. It is 
possible the stress of dealing with the missed payments has exacerbated those problems. 
But it certainly isn't the case that Lloyds' errors are responsible for Ms F's ill health.
I'm afraid I don't accept that Ms F had to cancel her family's holiday so that she could go to 
the overseas bank to make her mortgage payments directly. I can understand that she may 
have been anxious about this given the missed payments, but there are other means to 
make the payments as well as online. And Lloyds have made her aware of these. Ms F has 
also said she didn't travel just to make the payments.
I'm sorry to hear Ms F's relationship with her sister has been affected by these events. And I 
can see how it might cause friction if Ms F's mortgage payments were late on four 
occasions.
However, I think Lloyds have provided a comprehensive and adequate written explanation to 
say that the missed payments were their fault not Ms F's. And Ms F could share those 
explanations with her sister.
So, given that Lloyds have covered all the expenses Ms F incurred as a result of the late 
payments - and given that they've added a flag to Ms F's file to instruct their staff about the 
correct coding for the payments - I'm satisfied that the £1,300 compensation they've given 
Ms F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Ms F's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman