DRN-3117407
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied interest charges to his offset mortgage 
even though it was fully offset and no interest was due. He asks that these charges are 
refunded.
What happened
Mr I took out an interest only offset mortgage with Barclays in 2011. The amount in his offset 
account is slightly more than the mortgage balance. He noticed about £160 was taken by 
direct debit from his current account in March 2021. After checking he saw this had 
happened on a few previous occasions. Mr I says the mortgage is fully offset and no interest 
should be applied.
Barclays said while interest is applied on a daily basis, the monthly mortgage payment is 
calculated over 30.4 days (1/12 of a year). This meant the interest earned on the balance in 
the offset account in February 2021 wasnt enough to cover the mortgage payment due in 
March 2021. Barclays says the mortgage offset guide which would have been sent to Mr I 
when he took out the mortgage explains this. And the broker that recommended the 
mortgage to Mr I was responsible for explaining to him how the mortgage works.
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt made an error, and the offset guide said there could be 
circumstances where interest was applied even if the mortgage balance was fully offset.
Mr I didnt agree. He said this wasnt explained to him, and just because calculations were 
carried out in accordance with Barclays processes or formula didnt make it fair. He said 
there was no logic to having different day counts for the mortgage account and offset 
account. Mr I said the principle of the offset was that interest should only be calculated on 
the mortgage balance less the amount in the offset account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I says the principle of the offset arrangement is that interest is only applied to the extent 
that the mortgage balance exceeds the balance in the offset account. And he says theres no 
logical reason for interest on the two accounts to be calculated in different ways. 
Barclays calculates interest on a daily basis. However, it calculates the monthly mortgage 
payment on the basis of 30.4 days or 1/12 of a year. This means (unless the balance or 
interest rate change) the same payment is due each month, even though the number of days 
in calendar months varies. I think theres logic to this: customers know how much their 
payment will be and direct debits dont need to be adjusted from month to month. 
However, this means there is sometimes a mis-match between the interest earned on the 
balance in the offset account and the mortgage payment that is due, despite the balances 
being the same. 
The information Barclays says it provided to Mr I when he took out the mortgage explains 
this. The offset guide says even with 100% offset (as Mr I has) there could be anomalies. It 
gives as an example the interest earned over the 28 days of February as compared to the 
payment due in the following month, saying For example, the mortgage payment for March 
would be for 30.4 days less the [interest] earned during the 28 days of February and there 
would, therefore, be a small amount to pay.
Mr I says Barclays didnt explicitly explain this to him. The mortgage offer says the mortgage 
was recommended by a broker. It would have been the responsibility of the broker to explain 
to Mr I how the mortgage works.
I appreciate Mr Is frustration that the offset arrangement didnt work as hed expected. And I 
accept that there might be other ways that the interest and monthly payments could be 
calculated. But I dont think Barclays made an error, misled Mr I or treated him unfairly. It 
provided information to Mr I about how it would calculate the interest and the mortgage 
payment. It said that this could on occasion mean a small payment would be due even if the 
mortgage was 100% offset. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to refund the interest applied.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman