DRN-4307578
The complaint
Mr W has complained about damage charges applied by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
(MHCC) under a hire agreement. 
What happened
Mr W acquired a new car under a hire agreement with MHCC in September 2018 and 
handed the car back in April 2023. The mileage on hand back was around 41,000. Mr W is 
unhappy MHCC have charged him £190 for damage it deemed outside of fair wear and tear. 
The damage charged is in relation to a dent on the left quarter panel (£60); a damaged left 
rear alloy wheel (£65); and a damaged right rear alloy wheel (£65).
After MHCC sent Mr W the appraisal, he said hed obtained a second opinion and believed 
his liability should be £60. He said he thought the left-hand alloy wheel showed signs of 
corrosion as opposed to scuff damage. He says this was wear and tear. He says there 
appears to be scuff damage on the spoke of the right-hand rear wheel, and he accepted 
liability. But he says the inspector should have photographed two scuffs independently and 
not as one photo. Mr W also says the dent on the panel doesnt appear to be on the swage 
line and its less than 20mm in length. So he didnt think this should be chargeable as it was 
fair wear and tear. Mr W also mentioned he thought some of the damage should have been 
covered under manufacturer warranty.
MHCC sent a final response to Mr Ws complaint saying its assessment of damage was 
linked to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) standards. It said the 
inspector was trained in those standards and that it thought all areas of damage were fairly 
chargeable. Mr W disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt make any recommendations. He 
focussed on the two areas of damage Mr W was disputing. He thought the left-hand alloy 
wheel was damaged outside of fair wear and tear, and that the charge was reasonable. He 
said the photos of the damage on the quarter panel werent particularly clear, but said he 
thought he could see a scratch that penetrated the surface of the paint. So he thought the 
charge was fair. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he had the car longer than the original rental term so further 
scope for wear and tear should be allowed. He said the investigators knowledge of rust or 
corrosion on alloy wheels was limited. He said rust starts with pitted holes exactly as 
indicated on the supplied photos. He also said taking photos of mirrors showing reflections 
doesnt truly show the image correctly. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W acquired the car using a regulated consumer hire agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr W, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr W. 
Like our investigator pointed out, Im satisfied the hire agreement sets out Mr W was 
required to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. And that hed be responsible for 
any damage caused or deterioration of the car otherwise than through fair wear and tear. 
And it set out it would use the BVRLA guidelines. So Im satisfied MHCC can charge Mr W 
for damage that fell outside of fair wear and tear. 
The BVRLA guidance says any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the 
wheel/alloy isnt acceptable. It says there must be no rust or corrosion on the alloy 
wheels/wheel hub. I can see damage on the spokes of the alloy. Whether thats rust or 
corrosion or some sort of scuff or impact damage Im not sure. But I think either way, the 
damage falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidance. And I find a £65 charge to be fair in 
the circumstances. 
For completeness, while not disputed, I think the right-hand alloy also had a small scuff on 
the spoke of the alloy. I think this falls outside of fair wear and tear and I think the £65 
charge is reasonable. 
Ive also looked at the pictures of the damage to the quarter panel. The BVRLA guidelines 
say dents on the swage line of any panel are not acceptable. And it also says scratches 
arent acceptable if they cant be polished out and primer or bare metal is showing. I agree 
the photos could be better, but one of the photos at least shows what looks to be a dent on 
or near the swage line above the wheel arch. Even if thats wrong, like our investigator 
pointed out it looks like theres a scratch on the same panel that, on balance, doesnt look 
like it can be polished out. So I think theres damage outside of fair wear and tear on the 
panel, and I find the £60 charge to be reasonable. 
Finally, I will point out that Im sorry Mr W will be disappointed with the decision. Its clear 
that, on the whole, hes looked after the car. I appreciate he had the car longer than the 
original rental period, but it was still handed back after the first leasing cycle and when it was 
under five years old. So I think the BVRLA guidelines are fair to use. Its also worth pointing 
out that Im required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. Ive reviewed 
the evidence on file, and I think theres enough there for me to decide the complaint. For the 
reasons given above, Im not making any recommendations. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman