DRN-2882156
The complaint
Mr S complains about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited. He says they didnt tell him 
when they changed the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on his account. Hes unhappy that 
its higher than the APR quoted in his credit agreement.   
What happened
Mr S opened an account with Shop Direct in December 2014. When he opened the 
account, the APR was 39.9%. During a phone call with Shop Direct, he became aware the 
rate of APR that he was being charged was different from that on the original credit 
agreement.
Mr S asked Shop Direct for more information and saw theyd changed the APR a few 
times over the years he had held the account.
Mr S says the changes in APR were never shown on monthly statements. He also says 
they were never made clear to him in writing. He complained to Shop Direct about this and 
they said they had followed the correct process. They said in their letter to Mr S that he was 
given notice of any changes in APR with his statement. They listed the changes that had 
been made to the APR on his account and said that all customers accounts are reviewed 
regularly to ensure their APR is an appropriate reflection of how they manage their 
accounts.
Shop Direct said that they issue a notice of variation (NOV) before each change in interest 
rate. They gave us a screenshot from their system which showed they made the following 
changes to Mr Ss APR:
New Interest Rate Date of change Date of NOV
39.9% (opening APR) 15 December 2014 n/a  account opened date
48.9% 26 September 2015 1 August 2015
39.9% 3 June 2017 8 April 2017
49.9% 30 June 2018 5 May 2018
Neither Mr S nor Shop Direct have been able to provide any copies of historic statements 
or notices of variation showing that Mr S was told in writing of changes to his APR. Shop 
Direct said they do not keep correspondence which is more than twelve months old. 
Instead, they have provided a copy of their standard NOV letter. This standard letter 
explains the changes made and states that the customer can end the agreement if they do 
not want to maintain the account once the change has taken effect.
Our investigator considered the statements he had seen (which showed the APR at the 
time), the screenshot showing the timing of changes in APR, and the standard NOV letter. 
His view was that Shop Direct probably did give Mr S enough notice of changes to his APR 
 and so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with the outcome because of the lack of evidence available. He also 
questioned the standard notice of variation letter and the terms it referenced and said that 
it didnt make sense. He asked for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 May 2021, in which I said the following:
I note that Mr S has framed his complaint on not receiving prior notification of the APR
increases. However, I have more fundamental concerns around what happened.
My starting point is the term within Shop Directs contract with Mr S which permits them to
increase the APR, and on what basis. This is shown in the credit agreement entered into by
Mr S when he opened the account as follows:
14 In calculating the APR, no account has been taken of any variation of the interest
rate which may occur under this agreement. We have the right to vary the interest
rate, for commercial reasons, upon giving 30 days written notification to you.
19 We reserve the right to vary the terms of this agreement at any time to reflect:-
 changes in applicable laws or regulation;
 changes to our systems;
 changes in market conditions affecting our business;
 new developments in products, technology or other changes in lending practices;
 additional, enhanced or revised product features;
 new promotional offers;
 changes in your personal circumstances;
 changes which in our view effect your credit status.
We will give you 30 days written notice of the variation, where any such change is not
to your benefit. You may end this agreement by giving us notice and paying us the
full outstanding balance before that change takes effect.
Shop Direct have told us that Mr Ss interest rate changes were based on the risk he
presented. They explained they used their own internal credit risk rating which is largely
based on the credit score given by one of the CRAs, although theyve also said that Mr Ss
account management would have played a part.
It seems to me that Shop Direct invoked the particular part of the term Ive quoted above
relating to Mr S. In other words, the part relating to changes in your personal circumstances
and changes which in our view effect [sic.] your credit status. Ive not seen any indication
that Shop Direct has relied on any of the other terms quoted.
The particular regulatory rules and guidelines of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) were relevant at the time of each increase. This was as follows:
CONC 6.7.14R
Where a firm has a right to increase the interest rate under a regulated credit agreement,
the firm must not increase the interest rate unless there is a valid reason for doing so.
CONC 6.7.15G
Examples of valid reasons for increasing the rate of interest in CONC 6.7.14R include:
(1) recovering the genuine increased costs of funding the provision of credit under the
agreement; and
(2) a change in the risk presented by the customer which justifies the change in the interest
rate, which would not generally include missing a single repayment or failing to repay in full
on one or two occasionsCONC 6.7.16R
Where a firm increases a rate of interest based on a change in the risk presented by the
customer, the firm must:
(1) notify the customer that the rate of interest has been increased based on a change in risk
presented by the customer; and
(2) if requested by the customer provide a suitable explanation which may be a generic
explanation for such increases.
Shop Direct increased the APR on two occasions and I shall deal with each in turn.
The first increase in September 2015
Shop Direct has said that Mr Ss credit risk had changed, predominantly because hed only
been using the account for nine months at that time and so hadnt shown any real trading
history.
However, I am struggling to see here how this meant Mr S was deemed to be a higher credit
risk. Certainly, there was nothing of concern shown as far as his ability to maintain
payments, if we go by the account statements from that period of time. I note also that,
according to Shop Direct, Mr Ss credit risk score had actually increased to 408 from 340 by
the time of the increase from when the account was opened. So, if we go by these numbers
at least, Mr Ss credit risk certainly doesnt appear to have increased. In fact, you could
reasonably argue that the opposite happened.
Im unsure what specifically went into determining the credit risk score. But a credit score in
itself doesnt necessarily mean that someones risk has increased to the extent that they
may then struggle to repay existing credit commitments such as this account. For example,
someone may have repaid an existing credit commitment early or opened another account
recently. There are lots of different factors that go into credit scoring and not just when
someone isnt able, or is struggling, to meet their existing commitments. I cant though see
how Mr S specifically presented a higher degree of risk at this time and that this is the key
consideration here, as Shop Direct has relied on this particular part of the term to justify the
APR increase.
The second increase in June 2018
Shop Direct has said that Mr Ss trading credit risk factor had again increased and this was
predominantly based on the information they received from a credit reference agency.
Theyve further said that Mr Ss credit score had fallen significantly from what it had been in
June 2017.
Ive mentioned for the first increase that a credit score isnt in itself simply determined on
someones ability to repay their existing commitments. I accept its potentially an indicator,
but it isnt an absolute. So, basing the decision to increase the APR purely on the change in
score is potentially flawed. Not only that, Ive seen nothing within Mr Ss account
management with Shop Direct that would have indicated that he presented an increased risk
to them as far as his ability to make repayments on time. In fact, Mr S managed his account
well throughout from what I can see.
If though as Shop Direct says, Mr Ss drop in score was likely due to him falling behind on
payments on other lenders, Ive seen no evidence of this or evidence that Shop Direct was
aware that this was indeed the case. So, again, I cant see how Mr S should have beendeemed a higher risk in relation to his existing commitment with Shop Direct.
And, even if what Shop Direct is saying was true (and to be clear Ive seen no evidence of
this), they decided to increase the APR on the account on the basis that Mr S was likely
struggling to repay his existing credit commitments elsewhere. That would then have
increased the amount he had to repay overall, and in theory likely would have led to Mr S
experiencing even further difficulties at a time when Shop Direct considered he was possibly
struggling to manage this. I fail to see how increasing the APR at that time was a reasonable
decision as a result. To be clear, Im not saying that Mr S was definitely struggling at that
time, but Shop Directs rationale for increasing the APR is, to me, at odds on assisting
someone who they think may have been experiencing such difficulties.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Shop Direct has been able to adequately demonstrate that
their decision to increase the APR on both occasions came because Mr S presented a
higher level of credit risk to them. And I dont see how increasing someones APR because
of concerns about their ability to repay other lenders showed proper consideration to Mr Ss
circumstances, be they actual or otherwise. I accept the term in the credit agreement
allowed for Shop Direct to increase the APR and that this would happen due to a number of
different factors. But for Shop Direct to increase the APR due to Mr Ss perceived increased
credit risk (which is what they did) had to have been based on the actual risk Mr S posed. I
dont consider Shop Direct has been able to show this.
For the reasons Ive given above, I provisionally find that Shop Direct should not have
increased Mr Ss APR on both occasions. I intend to direct Shop Direct to rework Mr Ss
account as if neither APR increase occurred (so in effect keeping the account at the APR
when the account was opened). That will be either by directly re-working the account if the
account remains live or refunding the difference if the account has now been closed.
If re-working the account means that Mr S overpaid what he was due to pay, then this should
be refunded to him with 8% simple interest from the date the overpayment occurred to the
date of settlement.
I asked Mr S and Shop Direct to reply to my provisional decision with any further 
comments or evidence they wanted me to consider. 
Mr S replied saying that he accepted my provisional decision. Shop Direct didnt provide 
anything further for me to consider. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any further submissions following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from this. So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision and in 
this decision, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
I require Shop Direct to rework Mr Ss account as if neither APR increase occurred, so in 
effect keeping the account at the APR from when the account was opened. That will be 
either by directly re-working the account if the account remains live or refunding the 
difference if the account has now been closed. 
If re-working the account means that Mr S overpaid what he was due to pay, then this should
be refunded to him with 8% simple interest from the date the overpayment occurred to thedate of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to take the action I have set out in the putting things right section of my decision. 
If Shop Direct Finance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from the interest part of this award, it should tell Mr S how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman