DRN-4211851
The complaint
Mr O complains that Saga Insurance Services incorrectly recorded a claim against his policy 
when he hadnt made a claim. He says this impacted the cost of his insurance and his no-
claims discount.
What happened
Mr O had insurance for his car arranged by Saga. On 6 October 2022 he called Saga to 
report that his car had been damaged overnight in an attempted theft. He said there was a 
crack to the glass on the passenger side window, as if someone had tried to break it. And 
there were scratches on the car which hadnt been present when he parked it.
During the call Mr O told Saga that the car was already at a garage, as when hed driven it 
that morning, the battery warning light was flashing and it had broken down. He wanted to 
know if Saga would provide him with a replacement car while his was being repaired. He 
was told they could arrange to move the car to an approved repairer, who could provide a 
courtesy car while his was being repaired. But theyd only cover the breakdown if it was 
related to the attempted theft.
Mr O told Saga he didnt have time to go through all the details to register his claim, and he 
was to call them back later to do this. But he didnt do this.
Mr O has told us that he never made a claim on his policy. He says he only called Saga to 
enquire about his damaged window. And he only became aware that a claim had been 
recorded against his policy when he was changing his car, and the premiums he was quoted 
had increased considerably. 
On 16 December 2022 Mr O notified Saga that he wanted to cancel his policy. This was 
done effective from 17 December 2022. When Saga wrote to Mr O to confirm the 
cancellation of his policy, they confirmed that his No Claims Discount (NCD) hadnt been 
affected.
Mr O raised a complaint about an increased premium when he changed his vehicle. And that 
when he called them on 16 December 2022, the claims handler he spoke to refused to 
provide their surname.
Saga spoke to him about his complaint on 23 January 2023 but werent able to resolve it 
over the telephone. During this call Mr O said his main concern wasnt the increased 
premium, it was the claim recorded on his policy. A final response letter was sent to him on 
24 January 2023.
Saga didnt uphold the complaint about Mr Os increased premium as they said this had 
been correctly calculated. But they upheld the part of his complaint about the call on 16 
December 2022. They said their call handlers werent obliged to give their surnames, but the 
handler had said shed provide her staff ID number. They apologised that the ID number 
then wasnt provided and awarded Mr O £25 compensation for this. Although the cheque 
was returned to them as Mr O had moved.
Saga said their system had been amended to record the claim as incident only, but as a 
reported incident it needed to remain on file. And they said his insurers would contact him to 
explain why a claim had been recorded.
On 27 February 2022 Saga received an email from Mr O and they responded the same day 
confirming his NCD was eight years and, as the incident had been recorded as information 
only, this hadnt been affected. 
Mr O wasnt happy with Sagas response and complained to our service. Saga confirmed to 
our investigator that they recorded the incident as attempted theft, as this is what Mr O told 
them during the call on 6 October 2022. This was changed on 17 December 2022, after he 
requested the policy was cancelled, to information only. And his premium wasnt affected 
because there was no renewal between the date of the incident and the cancellation of the 
policy. And the claim had been removed from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database so wouldnt be visible to other insurers.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. He said that having 
listened to the call Mr O made to Saga on 6 October 2022 he was satisfied that hed 
reported an attempted theft, so it was reasonable for Saga to record a claim. And when he 
notified them that a claim wasnt being pursued theyd updated their records according and 
removed the claim from the CUE database.
Our investigator was satisfied that Mr Os premium and NCD werent impacted. In relation to 
the increased premium when he changed insurers he said this could have increased for a 
number of reasons and Mr O would need to contact his new insurer about this.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators opinion as he maintains that he never reported an 
attempted theft to Saga. 
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering Mr Os complaint about Saga who arranged his motor insurance with one of 
their panel of insurers. So Im only able to consider the actions of Saga and how they 
impacted on Mr O. I cant consider any underwriting decisions made by the insurers. If Mr O 
wishes to raise a complaint about the insurers hell need to contact them. And in relation to 
the cost of his current policy, raise this with his new insurers.
The basis of Mr Os complaint is what was said during the call he made to Saga on 6 
October 2022. He says he made no reference to the attempted theft of his car, and that all 
that has happened is as a result of Saga wrongly recording the information he gave them. 
Ive listened to the call of 6 October 2022 and Mr O told Saga that he thought someone had 
tried to break into his car and it had been damaged. There was a discussion about whether a 
subsequent battery problem and breakdown would be covered by his policy and whether 
Saga could provide a replacement vehicle, while his car was being repaired. 
Mr O was told hed need to provide full details of the incident to Sagas claims team. He said 
he didnt have time and would call back to do this. He didnt call them back to go through the 
claims process. But based on the conversation he had with Saga I think it was entirely 
reasonable for Saga to record a claim for attempted theft. So what was the impact of this for Mr O? Saga have confirmed that there was no impact on 
Mr Os premium in the period from him notifying them of the attempted theft and him 
cancelling his policy on 16 December 2022.
And once he cancelled his policy and confirmed he wasnt pursuing a claim, they changed 
the status of the claim to information only and removed any reference to the claim from the 
CUE database. They also confirmed to Mr O in writing on 17 December 2022 that he had 
eight years NCD and this hadnt been affected. These are the steps Id expect them to take, 
so I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Mr O has said Saga apologised for the mistakes they made relating to the recording of his 
claim. This isnt correct. While they did apologise in their final response letter, this was for 
their call handler not providing her ID number to him during the call on 16 December 2022. I 
think the £25 compensation they offered him for this was reasonable, and if he wishes to 
accept this he can let them, or us, know.
As Ive said above Im only considering Mr Os claim against Saga, so I cant comment on 
any decisions made by the underwriters of his policy regarding his premium. But I remain 
satisfied that Saga correctly recorded the information Mr O provided during the call on 6 
October 2022 as a claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr O complaint about 
Saga Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman