DRN-3184425
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) mis-sold them an 
Offset Premium Current Account in 2005. This was later migrated to a Private Current 
Account Tracker in April 2009. As the change that took place in 2009 was a migration, rather 
than a new sale, we have not looked into this separately.
Mr and Mrs G say that they were unaware of the cost of the account and they were unaware 
that they had the option of a free account.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. They did not think that the account 
was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs G did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
This complaint will only be dealing with the account that was sold to Mr and Mrs G in 2005.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I 
know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, but after giving this case a 
lot of thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to them. I know this isnt the outcome 
that they were hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help them to understand how I 
have come to this conclusion.
I can only uphold this complaint if I can find that Clydesdale did something wrong during the 
sale of the account and this caused Mr and Mrs G an actual financial loss. In this instance 
there was no fee for the account that Mr and Mrs G have said was mis-sold to them. To 
explain Mr and Mrs G were paying a monthly fee to be private customers of Clydesdale and 
this fee was being paid from 2001. So when they took out the Offset Premium Current 
Account, they were not charged anything more as they were already paying a Private 
banking fee - which theyve not currently complained about. Given that the sale of this 
account did not actually cost Mr and Mrs G anything and I cant see that they lost out 
financially by holding this account then I cant reasonably conclude that this account was 
mis-sold.
I note that there may be some confusion as the fee for being a Private Customer was at a 
later date paid from the Offset Premium Current Account. I can also see that the name of the 
fee has changed over time to member account fee but this does not mean that fee was for 
that account - Clydesdale has confirmed that the fee was specifically applied because Mr 
and Mrs G were Private Banking customers.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the Offset Premium Current Account 
was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs G as I cant see that they ever paid an extra fee specifically for 
the account. I understand that this may be frustrating to Mr and Mrs G, as they clearly feel 
that their account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman