DRN-3203898
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited recorded an incident under his 
car insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr R was involved in a collision with another car. He advised Ageas 
of this for its records. However, Ageas then received a claim from the other driver (that 
Ill call the third party). Ageas recorded the claim as Mr R being at fault. That meant Mr 
Rs no claims discount (NCD) was reduced which caused his premiums to go up. Mr R 
was unhappy with this as he said the third party was responsible for the collision.
After further correspondence with the third partys solicitor about the matter, Ageas 
accepted in July 2020 that Mr R hadnt been at fault for the collision. It updated its 
records, and reinstated his NCD. Mr R learnt of this in March 2021.
Unhappy with Ageas handling of the matter, Mr R brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Ageas to record the claim as Mr R being at fault. He also didnt think Mr 
R had been financially impacted by the matter, as his new insurer had confirmed it 
would reduce his premiums once Ageas confirmed he hadnt been at fault for the 
collision.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy terms say that if a claim is made, the NCD will reduce unless the damage 
wasnt the fault of the person driving the insured car (as well as some other reasons). 
However, if it cant be established that the damage wasnt the fault of the person driving 
the insured car, then the policyholder may lose their no claims discount.
Although Mr R told Ageas he thought the third party was at fault for the collision, Ageas 
received a personal injury claim from the third party. They said Mr R was at fault for the 
collision. The third party said that Mr R had changed lanes in front of them, and it was this 
which had caused the collision.
Ageas looked at the photos taken immediately after the collision, and thought these 
supported the third partys version of events.
Mr R provided Ageas with the names of two witnesses. One of them was known to Mr R, 
and so Ageas didnt think that person could be said to be independent. The second 
witness told Ageas they hadnt seen the collision. Ageas also tried to obtain CCTV of the 
collision from the local council, but this wasnt available.
As liability for the collision was in dispute, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Ageas to 
initially record the incident as Mr R being at fault and for his NCD to be adjusted to reflect 
this. This was in line with the policy terms.
Mr R told Ageas that his solicitor was dealing with the matter, as he had made his own 
claim against the third party for general damages and vehicle damage.
Ageas initially told the third party it would accept their claim, but this would be on a 
without prejudice basis. That was because it didnt think the available evidence 
supported that Mr R hadnt been at fault for the collision.
However, Ageas later received a written statement from the second witnesses, and this 
said that they did in fact see the collision and that Mr Rs car had been stationary at the 
time. Consequently, Ageas decided to try and defend the claim, though it didnt think it 
would have much success if the case went to court, since the witness had changed their 
statement.
Meanwhile, the third partys insurer accepted Mr Rs claim. Although Mr R seems to 
think this meant the third party was accepting liability for the collision, thats not correct. 
The settlement was a Part 36 offer made under the Civil Procedure Rules. That meant 
that the offer was made on a without prejudice basis. In other words, no fault was 
accepted by the third party.
As liability for the collision was still in dispute at this point, I think it was reasonable for 
Ageas to continue to record the collision as Mr R being at fault.
Ageas and the third partys solicitor continued to correspond about the matter 
throughout 2018 and 2019. The final correspondence was sent by Ageas on 28 
October 2019.
When Ageas didnt receive further correspondence from the third partys solicitor about 
their claim, Ageas decided in July 2020 to close the file. It was at this point that Ageas 
recorded Mr R as not being at fault for the collision, and reinstated his NCD.
I think Ageas actions here were reasonable. It hadnt heard from the third partys solicitor 
for some time, so it could be reasonably satisfied that the matter wasnt going to be taken 
further and the third party no longer intended to argue that Mr R was responsible for the 
collision.
However, unfortunately, Ageas didnt tell Mr R in July 2020 that it had accepted he wasnt 
at fault for the collision, or that his NCD had been reinstated. Mr R contacted Ageas in 
March 2021, and he only learnt about it then. Meanwhile, Mr R had been paying higher 
premiums to another insurer.
Mr R told this service that his new insurer was willing to reduce his premiums once Ageas 
confirmed that he hadnt been at fault for the collision. Ageas provided Mr R with written 
confirmation of this on 19 March 2021.
However, I think Ageas caused Mr R unnecessary worry about the matter by failing to 
advise him for eight months that it accepted he wasnt at fault for the collision. I intend to 
require Ageas to pay Mr R £150 compensation for this.
Mr R may have also been financially disadvantaged by the matter. I understand he paid 
around £1,000 a year more for his car insurance as a result of the at fault marker. In 
response to this provisional decision, Id be grateful if Mr R could confirm whether his 
new insurer did indeed reduce his premiums once he provided confirmation from Ageas 
that he wasnt at fault for the collision. If it did, Id also like him to confirm if this was 
backdated to July 2020, and also whether interest was added to the backdated premiums. If not, then I may require Ageas to pay compensation equivalent to this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wanted to make 
before I reached my final decision. 
Mr R responded and made the following main points:
When he told Ageas of the incident, he didnt intend to make a claim.
Ageas pushed him to accept the blame, when the third partys insurer settled the 
matter.
He says that when he renewed his policy with Ageas in February 2018, his premium 
increased and he was told he would be refunded once the matter was settled and his 
NCD reinstated.
Ageas responded and asked for the actual sum paid by Mr R in respect of higher premiums 
incurred since the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that when he told Ageas about the incident, he didnt intend to make a claim. I 
understand this, however, Ageas received a personal injury claim from the third party. 
Mr R says that Ageas pushed him to accept the claim, and points out that the third partys 
insurer settled his claim. Ive already explained in my provisional decision why I think it was 
appropriate for Ageas to record the claim at the time as Mr R being at fault, and for his NCD 
to be reduced. Ive also explained that the third partys settlement of Mr Rs claim didnt 
mean the third party was accepting liability for the incident.
In my provisional decision, Id asked Mr R to provide evidence that hed asked his current 
insurer to reinstate any overpaid premiums once he learnt that Ageas removed the fault 
marker. In response Mr R says that when he renewed his policy with Ageas in February 
2018, he was told his increased premium would be refunded once his NCD was reinstated. I 
will assume from this that Mr R didnt later take out cover with another insurer after July 
2020. 
As Ageas later recorded that Mr R hadnt been at fault and reinstated his NCD, Id have 
expected it to have returned any overpaid premiums that may have been charged before 
July 2020 due to the previous fault marker. If it hasnt done so, then it should do this. 
Though if Mr R did later take out cover with another insurer, and thinks hes overpaid 
premiums because of the previous fault marker (and hasnt been able to get a refund from 
his insurer), he should provide evidence of this to Ageas. Id then expect Ageas to refund 
any overpaid premiums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.If Mr R overpaid premiums with Ageas due to the fault marker before this was 
removed in July 2020 and his NCD reinstated, it should refund this amount. Interest 
should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the overpaid 
premiums were paid to the date of settlement*.  
If Mr R took out cover with another insurer after July 2020 and thinks hes overpaid 
premiums because of the fault marker (and hasnt been able to obtain a refund 
with the insurer), he should provide evidence of this to Ageas. Ageas should then 
refund the overpaid premiums. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum from the date the overpaid premiums were paid to the date of 
settlement*.
*If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman