DRN-2313499
The complaint
Mr E complains, on behalf of his company T, that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr E fell victim to a scam. 
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Mr Es secretary received a call on 28 September 2016, saying that a payment needed to be 
made straight away to prevent court action and a CCJ.  Believing the call to be genuine Mr 
Es secretary went ahead and made a payment for £2,998.76, at 13:41, via online banking. 
Unknown to her at the time, she was speaking to a fraudster.
When Mr Es secretary told him what happened, he called Barclays straight away, this was 
at 17:15 on 28 September 2016  but was told that the team he needed to speak to was 
closed. Mr E called back the following day and the scam was logged. Barclays contacted the 
receiving bank, but it was advised that no funds remained.
Mr E complained to Barclays, he accepted that his secretary had made a mistake, but 
thought the first call he had with Barclays, which was on the same day as the scam, could 
have been handled better  and if it had of been there could have been a chance of 
retrieving the money.
Barclays issued its final response on 16 November 2019. It said that it had followed its 
correct process in trying to recover the money Mr E had lost, so it couldnt uphold his 
complaint. It did apologise though for its service falling short and offered Mr E £100 
compensation for this. 
Mr E then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Barclays could have done anything to prevent the scam. 
He thought this as he didnt consider the payments Mr E made were particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual that they should have raised Barclays suspicions. He said that he 
appreciated Barclays didnt raise the scam immediately, but even if it had raised it sooner, 
he said it wouldnt have made any difference as the funds had been removed from the 
receiving bank account. He thought the £100 compensation Barclays had offered was 
appropriate in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr E, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Barclays actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr 
Es company account. I also dont think it would have been able to recover any of the money 
Mr E lost, even if it had contacted the receiving bank sooner than it did.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Es complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should 
reimburse him the £2,998.76 his company has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain 
why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr Es company, when Mr Es secretary made a transfer to a fraudster and when Mr E 
reported the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr E has accepted that his secretary authorised the transfers. Because of this, Barclays had 
an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.Having reviewed the account activity on Mr Es company statements for the six-month period 
leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment made to the fraudster was particularly 
unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal account activity. I can see that there 
had been several other transactions for amounts in excess of £1,000 (ranging up to over 
£3,500). So I dont think the payment made, of £2,998.76, was so out of character or 
unusual, compared with how the account was typically run, that I could fairly have expected 
Barclays to have made enquiries about the payment before processing it. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Barclays did what it shouldve done once Mr E reported 
to it that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Barclays made to 
recover the money, once Mr E reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Barclays to refund the money to Mr E, I need to be satisfied that Barclays should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Barclays didnt raise the scam against the receiving bank as soon as it 
ought to have done.  Mr E initially called Barclays at 17:15 on 28 September 2016 to report 
the scam, Barclays ought to have raised the scam at this point, but didnt raise the scam until  
Mr E called back the following day. 
Ive thought about whether Barclays delay in contacting the receiving bank made any 
difference.  Information Ive seen from the receiving bank shows that the payment which was 
sent to the fraudster, was moved on from the receiving bank just ten minutes after Mr Es 
secretary had made the payment.  So, even if Barclays had raised the scam with the 
receiving bank at the point when Mr E first contacted them, it wouldnt have made a 
difference, as sadly no funds would have remained to be recovered. 
I understand that Mr E is unhappy with the service Barclays provided and in particular with 
how the first call he made to them, on 28 September 2016, was handled.  Barclays has 
recognised its service fell short and offered Mr E £100 compensation for this.  I think the 
offer of compensation Barclays has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its very unfortunate Mr E has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say Barclays should have done more to prevent him losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclays to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman