DRN-2121257
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited misled him about how its no claims 
discount (NCD) scheme worked before he took out a motor insurance policy with it.
What happened
Mr K called Admiral several times during the first week of October 2020 to enquire about 
how it would deal with his NCD situation. Mr K had one years NCD from when he was a 
policy holder on a policy. But hed been a named driver on an Admiral policy for the last two 
years. When Mr K queried whether those two years qualified for NCD, one of Admirals 
advisors told him that Admiral would be able to apply three years NCD on a new policy. 
Subsequently, after Mr K took out a policy with Admiral online on 6 October 2020, he called 
it again. Another advisor clarified the situation. He said Admiral would treat Mr Ks one-year 
NCD as a policy holder as full NCD and that the other two years would be classed as 
introductory NCD. He said the discount applied to the policy would be the same as for three 
years full NCD. But he said Mr K would have proof of only two years NCD (not four) to take 
elsewhere at the end of the current policy year. Mr K was very disappointed with that.
Mr K also queried the 1% discount that had been applied to the premium for his policy. Hed 
expected to get what Admiral had said online was the average discount of 16%. An advisor 
referred his query to Admirals pricing team. It told him the three-year NCD reduction applied 
to Mr Ks premium would mostly have been cancelled out by the loss of the claims-free 
driving reduction hed had previously, as both werent allowed at the same time. 
 
Mr K complained to Admiral about what had happened. It said hed applied for the policy 
online stating he had zero years NCD, but that hed made no claims in the last five years. 
When he called Admiral after that, three years NCD discount was applied to the premium. 
Admiral said the low return premium of £8.96 was correct, as the claims-free reduction was 
lost. Admiral didnt agree that its advisors had given Mr K the wrong advice during calls.
As Mr K didnt accept Admirals explanation, he contacted us. One of our advisors reviewed 
his complaint but didnt uphold it. He pointed out that Admirals website said named drivers 
could earn an Admiral NCD for use with new Admiral policies. He thought that made it clear 
enough that the NCD referred to wasnt transferable to other insurers. He said he 
understood Mr Ks disappointment with the 1% discount he got. But he said Admiral quoting 
an average of 16% discount on premiums meant not everyone would get that much. And he  
thought the pricing team had given Mr K a fair explanation about why the discount was low.  
As Mr K didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for review.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K doesnt agree that the wording on Admirals website is clear. In his view, there should 
be a statement on there saying specifically that discount gained on Admirals NCD scheme 
for named drivers cant be transferred to other insurers. But I think most consumers would 
realise what the wording meant, as it isnt standard industry practice for named drivers to 
earn any discount at all. I think the online wording is clear enough.  
Mr K has made the point that when he spoke to Admirals advisors before buying the policy, 
he wasnt told the two years introductory NCD wasnt transferable. I agree that it wasnt 
stated specifically by the advisors until Mr K called again on 7 October 2020, the day after he 
bought the policy. I think the advisor made it clear to Mr K during the call that day that the 
introductory NCD wasnt transferable to other insurers. 
At that point, Mr K could have cancelled the policy with no penalty. But hed only have had 
one years NCD to transfer to other insurers, so he may not have been any better off. 
Mr K said he was mystified by the explanation Admiral gave for the very small discount he 
got after the three years NCD was applied to the policy. I think the first part of the 
explanation was clear enough. If consumers on average get a 16% discount, that means 
many consumers get more than 16%  and many get less. Unfortunately, Mr K fell within the 
second group, but I dont think the wording Admiral used on this issue was misleading. 
In my opinion, the second half of Admirals explanation was harder to follow, and I can see 
why Mr K struggled with it. Admiral told him that his five-year claims free discount had been 
removed, as he couldnt have that applied to the premium as well as the NCD discount. But 
it seems Mr K wasnt aware that claims-free discount had been applied to the premium when 
he made the online application. And as hed only owned a car for three years, he couldnt 
see how the five-year reference was relevant. He thought Admiral had made a mistake.
When Mr K completed the online application, he said he had zero NCD (although that wasnt 
the case). He told us he did that because his NCD situation wasnt straightforward, and he 
preferred to change the details after speaking to one of Admirals advisors. So the premium 
that was quoted had no NCD reduction. In the circumstances, Mr K thought once Admiral 
added the three years discount, the premium would reduce by a fair amount. 
But Mr K was also asked online about his claims history. During one of the calls Ive listened 
to, an advisor ran through the details hed set out online. Mr K confirmed that he hadnt 
made or declared any claims. The questions that were asked online covered incidents 
leading to claims over the previous five years. Thats a standard period for an insurer to ask 
about. And as he said he hadnt made any claims, Mr K got a claims-free discount for that 
period, although it seems he didnt realise that was the case. When that was removed (as a 
reduction for NCD and a reduction for claims-free driving cant both be applied at the same 
time) there was refund on the premium, but it was a very small one.  
 
Admiral supplied extra details about its pricing structure to us recently that cant be shared 
with Mr K, as theyre commercially sensitive. But I could see from the details provided that 
he didnt lose out as a result of his claims-free discount being based on five years.
I understand why Mr K was confused about the discounts applied to his premium, and I think 
it was reasonable for him to query it. From Mr Ks point of view, it appeared that there had 
been an error somewhere in the process, and that hed ended up paying too much. But I 
dont think thats the case, as Admirals calculations appear to be correct. As I dont think 
Admiral acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman