DRN-3826858
The complaint
Mr M says St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) delayed the transfer of his 
pension in 2020 and caused him a financial loss, for which he seeks compensation. SJP 
concedes that part of the transfer was delayed, but it says no financial loss resulted from 
that. It has apologised for the delay and offered Mr M £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr M instructed the transfer of his pension from SJP to Old Mutual Wealth 
(OMW), now Quilter. 
He says mainly as follows  the instruction was sent by OMW to SJP on 4 August; it was 
sent by post and it instructed the transfer of his entire SJP pension (both crystallised and 
uncrystallised pots); SJP replied on 11 August and asked OMW to complete and submit its 
transfer request form (which related only to the crystallised pot); the form was completed and 
returned to SJP on 18 August; the crystallised pot was not transferred until 21 September 
and the uncrystallised pot was not transferred until 2 October; both should have been 
transferred much earlier, and the latter transferred immediately because it was not 
dependent on the transfer request form; the crystallised pot was invested on 22 September 
and the uncrystallised pot was invested on 5 October; but for the delays, both pots should 
and would have been received by OMW and invested earlier, between the middle and end of 
August, at better unit prices; on this basis he has incurred financial losses in both pots. 
SJP says it received a transfer request through Origo (the electronic pension transfer 
system) on 25 September and by 28 September it had completed the uncrystallised pots 
transfer, so it considers that no delay happened in this respect. It says payment for the 
crystallised pot should have happened on 2 September but did not happen until 10 
September. It obtained information from OMW with regards to the investments made from 
the transferred crystallised pot on 22 September and, it says, based on that information the 
unit price for the investments on this date was more favourable than that which would have 
applied earlier, on 15 September, so Mr M has benefitted from having more invested units 
because of the delay. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. His main findings were as follows:
OMWs instruction letter (dated 4 August) was faxed to SJP on 10 August, and the 
following day SJP sent OMW the transfer request form for completion. The form was 
SJPs version, it was required for the crystallised pot (because its crystallised state 
meant it could not be transferred through Origo) and the version provided by OMW 
could not be used because SJPs operation was based on using its own  and it had 
discretion over its practices in this respect. It sent out the form for the crystallised pot 
on 11 August and the form for the uncrystallised pot on 20 August. Both were sent 
within its Service Level Agreement (SLA) time allowances for such tasks.
The completed form (dated 18 August), for the crystallised pot, was emailed to SJP 
on 27 August. The crystallised pot was liquidated on 28 August and the proceeds 
should have been paid out by SJP on 2 September, instead that was done on 10 
September. This was done 10 working days after receipt of the form, so it breached 
SJPs SLA expectation of action within five working days.
SJP received the Origo transfer request for the uncrystallised pot on 25 September 
and completed the transfer on 28 September. There was no delay in this aspect and 
there is no evidence of an earlier Origo transfer request being issued/received for this 
pot.
The only area to redress is the delay in transferring the crystallised pot. SJPs 
calculation and comparison, based on information from OMW, of the units bought in 
the 22 September investments with those that could have been bought earlier, but for 
the delay, is the same approach this service would take to considering redress. The 
calculation and comparison outcome is that there was no financial loss. SJPs offer of 
£500 for the stress and inconvenience caused by the delay is fair in the 
circumstances of the case.
Mr M disputes the investigators conclusion. He maintains his core arguments and wants an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
He referred to information obtained from Quilter by his financial adviser and he says that 
information shows OMW initially tried to request the transfer through Origo, but was wrongly 
told by SJP that paper forms were required  in response, the investigator noted that there 
was no evidence of this and that his enquiries to Quilter about this had not been answered. 
Mr M maintains the argument nevertheless, and he says it confirms SJPs responsibility for a 
delay at the outset, resulting in the delays that followed. He also challenged the notion that 
both pots could not have been transferred through Origo at the time of his transfer request. 
He asked for evidence of this. He believes the inability to transfer a crystallised pension 
through Origo began sometime after his pension transfer, but not before. In response, the 
investigator said the matter is more about SJPs practice at the time (whereby it did not 
transfer such a pension through Origo), over which it had discretion, and that we are not the 
industry regulator so it is beyond our remit to investigate a firms wider operations.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator.
I have verified the sequence of key events and have found the chronology summarised by 
the investigator, and presented by SJP, to be supported by documentary evidence. To recap 
 
OMWs instruction letter to SJP is dated 4 August, but there is date stamped evidence 
showing it was sent to SJP on 10 August; I have seen copies of SJPs letters (with enclosed 
transfer request forms) to OMW dated 11 August (for transfer of the crystallised pot) and 20 
August (for transfer of the uncrystallised pot); I have also seen OMWs email to SJP dated 
27 August, the attachments to which included the completed discharge form for Mr Ms 
pension (the crystallised pot); there is evidence from the Origo system showing that 25 
September was the transfer creation date for transfer of the uncrystallised pot; and there is 
no available evidence of any earlier, or other, Origo transfer application in this case.There is also no available evidence to support Mr Ms argument that SJP rejected and 
misguided an initial attempt by OMW to apply for the transfer through Origo. I have seen the 
correspondence from his adviser which led him to believe this was the case, but despite the 
investigators enquiries to Quilter nothing appears to have been presented to establish this. 
On balance, and in the absence of confirming evidence, I consider the alleged initial attempt 
by OMW and misguidance by SJP to be unlikely. It appears there was no mention of either 
at the relevant time, in 2020, and that it is a claim that arose, afresh, two years later. In 
August 2022, Mr Ms adviser put some enquiries to Quilter for information about the transfer. 
He asked about the initial transfer request and whether (or not) there was a request through 
Origo (in addition to the transfer request letter of 4 August). Quilter said it looked like OMW 
had made an initial Origo attempt before the manual request in the 4 August letter. However, 
Quilter gave no details for this. In addition, I repeat, there is no evidence from Quilter to us 
about this  and no evidence from Origo showing an earlier/rejected request attempt.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not find that there was an initial/rejected 
attempt, earlier than 25 September, to transfer Mr Ms pension through Origo.
Available documents also support the chronology, as I summarised in the previous section 
above, in terms of what happened after SJP received the required transfer papers (for the 
crystallised pot) and the Origo request (for the uncrystallised pot). 
With regards to the latter, the Origo transfer was created on 25 September and was 
completed on 28 September. Payment from the pot was made to OMW on 2 October and 
that was invested (in Mr Ms OMW pension) on 5 October. There was no undue delay in this 
process. Mr M does not appear to say there was, instead his argument is that the pot would 
have been transferred and invested much earlier, between the middle and end of August, 
but for SJPs delay at the outset. I disagree.
As set out above, I have found no evidence that SJP was responsible for a delay at the 
outset. I note that it could have sent out documentation for both pots on 11 August, instead 
of waiting until 20 August to send out documentation for the uncrystallised port, but I find this 
inconsequential. 
SJP has argued that the request should have been made through Origo at the outset. It is a 
reasonable argument, and had that been done in August it is more likely (than not) that the 
pot would have been transferred as promptly as it eventually was in September. SJP is not 
responsible for OMW opting to send a manual request instead. There is also evidence that, 
by 13 August, SJP had explained to Mr Ms financial planners that only the uncrystallised pot 
could be transferred through Origo. It is not clear why an Origo application was not then 
promptly actioned at the time (seven days before 20 August). That would have been a 
matter for Mr M, his advisers and perhaps OMW, but SJP was not responsible for that. 
Furthermore, it is noteworthy that despite such inaction (on or around 13 August) and 
despite SJPs communication of 20 August, it took over a month before an Origo request 
was eventually made (on 25 September). SJP is also not responsible for that.
For the above reasons, I do not consider that SJP caused a delay to the transfer of the 
uncrystallised pot.
There were delays in the transfer process for the crystallised pot. The initial delay had 
nothing to do with SJP. It issued the relevant forms on 11 August but did not receive the 
completed documents, in return, until 27 August. Thereafter, liquidation of the pot appears to 
have been done quickly, on the next day, so there does not appear to be an issue about lost 
liquidation value. However, unfortunately SJP then caused a delay in remitting the transfer to OMW. It did not do that until 10 September, and it concedes that this was a delay it caused 
and that it was a delay in breach of its SLA expectation. This affected the investments made 
in the OMW pension, so there is only a potential issue about lost investment value. 
If Mr M says SJP caused an earlier, and more important, delay before 11 August  and, 
therefore, there are issues of both lost liquidation and investment values in this context  I 
disagree. 
He has argued that SJP had no grounds to insist on a manual process for the crystallised 
pot when Origo could probably have been used and that time was wasted because it 
rejected OMWs initial paperwork when that could have been used. I repeat my finding that 
the alleged initial/rejected Origo attempt is unlikely. Whether (or not), in general, Origo could 
be used for crystallised funds at the time is not as relevant as Mr M considers. SJPs 
process did not allow for that, it required the use of its transfer forms for such a transfer. It 
was entitled to apply its reasonable commercial discretion to determine its operations, and 
that is what it did in this respect  regardless of what, in general, Origo could or could not be 
used to transfer at the time. It also justifies the need that arose to substitute the OMW forms 
for SJPs forms.
With regards to the delay in sending payment to OMW, SJPs approach to redress is in line 
with what this service would expect. The facts of the investments made, with the crystallised 
pot, in the OMW pension show that they were made in a reasonably timely fashion and they 
show what those investments were. Therefore, the consideration that applies is about 
whether (or not) those investments would have been made on better prices, but for the 
delayed payment. It is not disputed that the investments were made on 22 September and 
available evidence is that SJPs calculation and comparison used information on the 
investments and their prices on this date, as provided by OMW/Quilter. 
There is evidence that the payment sent out by SJP on 10 September was received by 
OMW on 15 September. However, more documentation and information had to be obtained 
between then and 22 September, before the funds could be invested. I understand SJPs 
acceptance that the payment could have been sent out by 2 September. That would have 
been within the SLA limit of five working days from its receipt of the transfer form (on 27 
August). The precise limit would have been a day later, on 3 September and, in the absence 
of evidence that the payment would definitely have been made on 2 September, it is 
reasonable to consider redress in the context of the limit itself. 
It took 12 ordinary days for the payment to result in the investments. Had the payment been 
made by 3 September, at the latest, the addition of 12 ordinary days leads to the date of 15 
September, which is the date SJP used in its calculation/comparison. Available evidence is 
that, on this date, the unit price for the investments was higher than it later was on 22 
September. Hence the conclusions that more units were bought, in reality, on 22 September 
than would have been bought on 15 September, and that Mr M made a net gain (not net 
loss) from the delay. In these circumstances, there are no grounds for redress.
Like the investigator, I am not persuaded to order an addition to SJPs offer of £500 for the 
trouble, distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M by the delayed payment. This was an 
isolated delay in an overall transfer process that appears to have been subjected to other 
delays beyond SJPs responsibility. It did not result in a financial loss and it lasted around a 
week. In these circumstances, I do not consider that an award above £500 is justified.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman