DRN-4241113
The complaint
Mr L complains about a claim he made to Nationwide Building Society in respect of a 
booking he made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr L booked flights in May 2021 for a friend through a travel agent (the agent) using his 
credit card for flights with a particular airline (the airline). The flights were due to depart in 
July 2021.
Mr L says that due to the Covid-19 pandemic the original booking dates were not suitable, so 
he contacted the agent about flying another time. He said they promised to issue him with a 
travel voucher instead. However, he has not received the travel voucher, or a refund and the 
agent is no longer trading.
Mr L made a claim to Nationwide around April 2022 to see what they could do to help. It said 
it was unable to raise a chargeback as it was out of time to do so. It also looked at Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but it said that Mr L did not have a valid 
claim because of the way the booking was made. It also noted there was no breach of 
contract by the agent.
Mr L was not happy with this outcome and complained. Our investigator looked at the 
complaint which Mr L made to Nationwide and did not uphold it. She concluded that 
Nationwide had handled the claim sufficiently and noted:
 the relevant time limit for a chargeback had expired when Mr L got in touch with 
Nationwide  so it couldnt pursue that route for him; and
 he didnt have a valid Section 75 claim because it appeared that Mr Ls friend was 
the contracting party.
The matter has come to me to consider for a decision.
I issued an initial provisional decision on this matter. In this I said, in summary:
 Nationwide is not the supplier of travel services here and I am considering how it 
handled the claim in the context of its role as a provider of financial services only. In 
this respect I consider its specific responsibilities in light of the card protections of 
chargeback and Section 75 to be relevant here. 
 The chargeback scheme is one way Nationwide might have been able to help Mr L 
recover money spent on his card. However, it is not a guaranteed method, there are 
specific rules around the chargeback scheme which govern its use.
 I am not persuaded Nationwide should have done more in respect of chargeback 
because it appeared the chargeback was out of time and even if it were raised in 
time, because the flights were booked and available it is unlikely to have succeeded.
 Even though Mr L has suggested he got a fake e-ticket originally that isnt clear so it 
is difficult to say this should have been approached by Nationwide as a claim about 
counterfeiting.
 In this case a key consideration is whether there is the correct debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement for a valid Section 75 claim. Essentially the issue is whether Mr L 
has the relevant agreement with the supplier in order to hold Nationwide responsible 
for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by said supplier.
 I think it is reasonably clear Mr L does not have a claim in respect of the actions of 
the airline here. He didnt pay it using his credit card nor does he have any apparent 
contract with it for flights. Any contract with the airline for carriage in that respect 
would appear to be with his friend due to fly (and named on the reservation as the 
passenger).
 Mr L has made the point that he had an agreement with the agent. And I think that is 
a valid point that warrants a closer look here. Even though Mr L was not going on the 
flights  this doesnt necessarily prevent him from having a contractual agreement 
with the agent in respect of certain booking services it provides. However, the 
contractual situation is not entirely clear and some of the booking confirmation screen 
grabs do not show all the information I need to see (I specifically invited Mr L to 
provide further information on this point).
 Even if I did accept Mr L was contracting with the agent for the original booking I 
dont think there are clear grounds to say Nationwide should have upheld a Section 
75 claim in any event as there was not a clear breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the agent here. The reservation appeared to have been made 
by the agent and the agent did not contractually guarantee an amendment was 
possible nor did it appear to be refundable. It appears that ultimately this was a 
request to cancel with the acceptance of a voucher to use for future travel (as a 
goodwill gesture). Not being able to use the voucher here is not a breach of contract.
I did not propose to uphold the complaint and I asked the parties for their responses:
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add.Mr L responded to (in summary):
 clarify it was he who contracted with the agent and provide additional evidence in 
support of this; 
 explain his claim is not about counterfeit tickets but a company failing to go about 
their processes efficiently and effectively and acting without due care;
 provide further evidence to show the booking reference the airline referred to in its 
email about the passing of funds/issuing of an e-ticket does relate to his booking;
 state the agent did not offer him a goodwill gesture as there is a possibility to change 
to alternative dates (depending on the airline) and a specific process of form filling for 
this (which he completed);
 point out that an email from the agent sent to him shortly before it went out of 
business confirms although the airline is not providing refunds they could offer a 
change to different flight dates; 
 highlight the advice by the Civil Aviation Authority CAA and the agents own website 
which states that if a credit card was used then the cost could be covered by Section 
75; and
 point out that the organisation dealing with the receivership of the agent advised him 
to seek redress through his credit card company.
I responded to Mr L to clarify the reasoning in the provisional decision, my understanding of 
the timeline and request any further comments. The investigator also provided Mr L with 
information that indicates the flight that was booked departed as scheduled in July 2021.
Mr L responded in summary to say:
 he has lost £786 to the agent which had no intention of getting replacement flights 
arranged when it knew it was going into liquidation;
 he sent the agent many emails and phoned it, but no one would confirm anything 
about bookings or refunds, and it was very frustrating and stressful;
 he is a long-standing customer of Nationwide and does not consider it did enough for 
him; and
 he would like to draw my attention to webpages which he considers relevant to his 
case and support his claim against Nationwide for not reimbursing him for the full 
cost of the flight tickets (such as those from the CAA).
I then issued another provisional decision, the findings of which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have considered the submissions by the parties I might not comment on everything, 
only what I consider to be central to this case. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but to 
reflect my role resolving disputes informally.
Mr L has provided additional information in response to my provisional decision. The 
investigator can provide any specific information that Nationwide wishes to see in respect of 
what Mr L has sent us (and my follow up response to him)  but in any event I will ask the 
investigator to send Nationwide the more comprehensive booking confirmation document Mr 
L has provided as that is a central piece of additional information here. Here I am issuing a further provisional decision as I have reflected on the submissions Mr L 
has provided and now consider it fair and reasonable to change my originally proposed 
outcome and uphold this complaint.
The contract with the travel agent
Mr L has provided further information to show that his email address was used to make the 
booking with the agent and that it was he who it sent the booking confirmation. Mr L has also 
clarified the circumstances of the booking and how his friend did not have contact with the 
agent in regard to booking  he explains that this would have caused difficulty as she cannot 
write or speak English well. 
Mr L has provided credible and persuasive testimony which is backed up by the 
documentary information he has provided. Overall, while I accept that he was not the 
passenger booked on the flight I am now satisfied that on balance Mr L did have an 
agreement with the agent for the booking arrangements and services rendered by it 
therefore he does have a Section 75 claim against Nationwide for any breach of contract of 
misrepresentation by it in respect of said booking.
The protection offered by Mr Ls credit card
Mr L has raised several online articles that point to protection offered by a credit card and 
indicated that he was advised to seek redress through Nationwide. However, even though 
paying for things on credit card can give protection through Section 75 or Chargeback this 
isnt guaranteed to succeed and depends on the nature of each individual claim. So I dont 
think these articles mean that Nationwide should have upheld the claim.
Furthermore, while Mr L had indicated he has been treated differently to others who made 
similar claims, I look at each complaint on the individual and particular circumstances 
presented to me.
The Section 75 claim
As I have indicated in my provisional decision  a Section 75 claim concerns either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the service Mr L paid for using his card (in 
this case the travel agent arranging the booking). 
The allegation here concerns a breach of contract. So the question is whether the agent 
breached a contractual obligation it had to Mr L.
I have thought about Mr Ls submissions in response to my provisional decision and it has 
caused me to carefully reassess this case. I consider Mr Ls more recent response and the 
evidence he submitted has persuasively highlighted the following:
that (despite using the term later on) he didnt in the first instance contact the agent 
to cancel the booking and initially made an application for a date change - something 
that later evidence shows the airline was able to accommodate;
the airline was referring to Mr Ls booking when it confirmed the agent had never 
passed on the money for it;
that Mr L is not accusing the agent of producing a counterfeit ticket but in fact 
claiming that it did not act with due care in respect of the service it provided.Mr L has mentioned due care in his response. I note that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
implies a term into all consumer contracts that a service will be provided with reasonable 
care and skill. What Mr L has recently highlighted along with the new information he has 
provided has led me to question whether in fact the agent did act with reasonable care and 
skill in carrying out its role.
While there is no specific definition of reasonable care and skill, I consider it fair to assess 
this based on the reasonable expectations in that particular industry. It does not seem 
unreasonable to expect that the agent Mr L paid in its role arranging travel would take 
reasonable steps to make the booking arrangements, pass funds to the principal and 
facilitate any post booking requests/administration issues. In this case, for reasons I go on to 
explain I am not persuaded that the agent did act with reasonable care and skill. 
Furthermore, I consider its failure to do so is likely to have caused Mr L to lose out here.
Although I accept Mr L eventually took a travel voucher from the agent he has underlined 
that his original intention and request was in fact for an amendment to the booked travel 
dates. I can see Mr L has drawn my attention to an email confirming he followed the process 
to apply to the agent for a date change request. 
In my provisional decision I pointed out the agent in its terms does not guarantee it can 
make amendments to bookings. However, I note it does say that it will endeavour to assist 
with this. And Mr L has highlighted a later email from the agent on 23 July 2022 which 
confirms that while the airline is not issuing cash refunds it will allow a change of flight dates. 
This now leads me to question whether the agent did in fact take reasonable steps to 
request an amendment with the airline back in July 2021 when Mr L first requested it. There 
is no persuasive evidence that it did.
With this in mind it is arguable that the agent was potentially breaching its own contractual 
agreement to endeavour to assist. However, in any event and considering its role as agent 
it would appear that not contacting the airline to facilitate a rebooking request here would be 
a failure to act with reasonable care and skill considering the expectations around its role. 
Whether I am considering the specific or implied term of the contract Mr L had with the agent 
there would appear to be a breach here which has caused Mr L to lose out because had the 
new dates been re-booked he would not have had to accept the agent issued voucher that 
he ended up not being able to use.
I also note that when Mr L made enquiries with the airline at a later stage (when he was 
having trouble using his voucher to re-book with the agent) he received an email from it 
dated 13 May 2022 stating that it had never received the money in respect of a particular 
booking reference despite a reservation being made. It has now become clear this was in 
fact Mr Ls booking reference. On reflection I still think because the original reservation was 
made there is not a breach of contract simply because the agent might not have passed the 
money over to the airline immediately (and might have had arrangements to pay at a later 
stage closer to the time of departure)  however, I now question why it reasonably held on to 
Mr Ls money for about a year in light of the particular circumstances here. 
It appears there would be a reasonable expectation that at some point (even if not straight 
away) the agent would pass on the required funds to the airline to facilitate the booking or 
any permitted changes through said airline. Particularly where there is nothing in the agents 
contract that explains that the agent has a right to hold onto funds indefinitely and where the 
contract indicates that it is the airline that controls the funds (as it levies any applicable fees 
for cancellation etc). It is worth noting here that in the circumstances where the airline was apparently willing to permit date changes there is further cause to question why the agent 
did not pass the funds over. 
By failing to reasonably pass over the funds for Mr L and apparently only offering to issue 
him with its own voucher (outside of the contract) he has been caused detriment. Had it 
passed the funds on I am persuaded Mr L would have likely been able to re-book with said 
airline even after the agent had ceased trading  that is indicated by the email the airline 
later sent to Mr L directing him back to the agent to sort things out (it appears it could not 
offer a rebooking as it never got the payment). 
In summary, while it is not disputed that the original flight took place (and Mr L did eventually 
accept a travel voucher issued by the agent) I consider there is an overall breach of contract 
here as in the response to Mr Ls original request to amend the booking. Furthermore, and in 
any event I also dont think the agent acted with reasonable skill and care in failing to pass 
Mr Ls funds over to the airline in the particular circumstances here.
Because I think the agent breached its contract with Mr L I consider that with Section 75 in 
mind Nationwide is responsible for providing Mr L with a fair remedy.
I think it is now difficult to provide Mr L a remedy of specific performance because of the time 
that has passed. So here I think a refund is appropriate for the full amount Mr L paid for the 
booking. However, because some key information has come to light at a later stage I dont 
think it would be fair to add interest to this refund.
My provisional decision
I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr L the cost of the flights he paid for being £786.
I asked the parties for their comments. Both agreed with my outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my outcome I have no cause to alter my latest provisional 
findings as copied above. I still consider these to be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Refund the cost of the flights to Mr L for the reasons outlined in my latest provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I direct Nationwide Building Society to refund Mr L the cost of the flights he paid for being 
£786. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman