DRN-4185185
The complaint
M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) undertook new checks and froze its account.
What happened
M opened its account with Revolut in 2019. On 16 March 2023, Revolut contacted M - and 
wanted to carry out new ID checks on its director. Ms director didnt have the documents 
needed and Revolut stopped the account with the balance at £14,273 credit. On 18 April 
2023, Ms director managed to get confirmation of his residency and the account was 
unblocked.
M complained. It said it couldnt trade without the money. M said the requirements of Revolut 
were unreasonable. Ms director had proof of residency but this had expired only a few days 
prior to Revoluts request. He showed Revolut he had applied for residency again - but the 
decision on that may take up to six months. He showed his provisional driving licence and 
council tax/utilities bill, but these werent acceptable to Revolut. He said Revoluts actions 
amounted to discrimination and a violation of his human and property rights. Ms director 
said he had been stressed and worried about what happened and had had sleepless nights.
Revolut said they undertook new checks from time to time. This was to comply with 
regulations. They could do this as it was contained within the terms and conditions of the 
account. Revolut said Ms director still needed to provide a residency permit and a passport 
from an EEA country  and at the time of Revoluts final response (March 2023), these 
hadnt been provided.
M brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said Revolut acted reasonably. All firms 
needed to make checks from time to time and thats what Revolut had done. It was 
contained within the terms and conditions of the account. As it was, Ms director managed to 
get proof of residency in April 2023 and the account was then verified and the account 
unblocked.
M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at its complaint. So, it has come to me to 
make a final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its important to say that all financial firms (including Revolut) which trade 
in the UK have obligations to undertake ID checks for their customers  this is part of their 
regulatory obligations. 
We asked Revolut why they wanted to carry out new ID checks on Ms director  when M 
had had an account since 2019. Revolut explained that their process is to undertake periodic 
reviews of all customers every two years. So M wasnt being singled out for a special check. 
And as all customers are treated in a similar way  Im satisfied that there wasnt any 
discrimination as Ms director has argued.
Revolut showed us their terms and conditions which say To meet our legal and regulatory 
requirements wemight sometimes need to ask for more information. Please provide this 
information quickly so that there is no disruption to your account or our services.  Therefore, 
Im satisfied that Revolut were entitled to ask Ms director for the information.
Revoluts policies say which forms of ID are acceptable to them. These include: a national ID 
card; an EEA passport; a full driving licence, or a valid residency permit. These are also set 
out in Revoluts terms and conditions which say If you're not a citizen of the country of your 
personal address, we'll need to ask for proof of your right to reside in such country (visa 
along with national passport or a residence permit).Validity requirements:
If your business is incorporated in UK, Switzerland or the rest of EEA:
-National ID - valid for at least 1 month from date of application
-Passport - valid for at least 1 month from date of application
-Full driving license - valid for at least 1 month from date of application
-All other documents such as visa or residence permit - valid for at least 3 months 
from date of application
Ms director argues that he showed his provisional driving licence and this was effectively the 
same as a full licence. But here - Revoluts policies are also clear - they needed to see a full 
driving licence, which Ms director unfortunately didnt have.
M's director also argues that he showed Revolut his application for the renewal of his 
residency permit  and says Revolut shouldve accepted that. But here again - Revoluts 
policies are clear  they wanted to see a current residency permit, and unfortunately Ms 
director couldnt show that.
I then considered what communications were sent to M ahead of the review. Revolut 
showed us that M wouldve received an SMS text and an email, asking Ms director to log on 
and to provide the necessary information. This said .we've noticed that you are not 
originally from the EEA (European Economic Area), Switzerland or the UK. Would you 
please submit a residence card or a passport with Visa (except type C), issued by the 
European authorities, valid for at least 3 months after the date of submission? Alternatively, 
we may also accept a passport from the EEA, Switzerland or the UK.
I can also see from the chat transcript  provided by both Ms director and Revolut  that 
Revoluts agent was clear about the regulations, and what the acceptable forms of ID were.
So - Im satisfied that Revolut did communicate clearly what they needed to see. I noted that 
Ms director couldnt show an EEA passport  as hes from a non-EEA country.
We asked Revolut why Ms account was frozen in the way it was. They told us that in the 
first request for information, the email said, If you dont verify this information within [] 
days well have to restrict transfers from your account until the check has been completed. I 
can also see that the terms and conditions say, Please provide this information quickly so that there is no disruption to your account or our services.  Ive considered this  and I think 
that as Revolut did give advance warning that the account might be stopped if the 
documents werent provided, it was reasonable for them to restrict the account.
As it was, Ms director managed to provide his new residency permit and the account was 
unblocked on 18 April 2023.
I can see that Ms experience was a frustrating one, but having reviewed what happened 
here, Im satisfied that Revolut acted reasonably. Therefore, Im not asking them to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman