DRN-3262280
The complaint
Miss S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycards (Barclaycard) 
refusal agree to refund her as she has requested.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss S purchased a brand-new watch from a luxury brand retailer while 
she was overseas. Miss S used her Barclaycard credit card to pay for the watch in part. 
Miss S suggests that the watch was misrepresented to her, by the retailer. In particular Miss 
S tells us that she wanted a certain watch, as far as she was aware the watch had a silver 
dial face. Therefore she asked the retailer about whether the silver dial face watch was 
available without roman numerals, she was told it was not. Therefore she went ahead with 
the purchase of a watch that she thought was the closest watch she could get to what she 
really wanted. 
However Miss S indicates that she found out afterwards that the watch she wanted was 
available without roman numerals. She indicates once she found out about what she sees as 
misrepresentation, she returned the watch to the retailer. However, because the retailer 
would only accept the return of the watch in person, she had to take a flight, stay in a hotel, 
and pay for Covid test in order to return the watch. Miss B also indicates she had to take 
time off work and therefore experienced loss of earnings due to this matter. Miss S wants 
Barclaycard to compensate her for this.
Ultimately the retailer did accept the return of the watch, but not it seems, on the grounds of 
misrepresentation. The purchase price was refunded to Miss Ss Barclaycard account. But 
she lost out due to transaction charges made by Barclaycard both at the time of the 
purchase and the time of the refund. Moreover, she was charged interest on the purchase. 
Miss S wants these charges refunded.
In addition, although Miss S did go on to buy the watch she originally wanted the price had 
increased by this point. She wants Barclaycard to refund her for the difference between the 
price she would originally have paid and the price she ended up paying.
Miss S tells us once she returned the watch to the retailer, she found out that it was dented 
and scratched (although this was not apparent to the naked eye). Miss Ss position is that 
the watch was in this condition when it was sold to her. Therefore it follows that there has 
been a breach of contract because the watch did not reach the standard she is entitled by 
law to expect as a consumer.
In seeking a refund Miss S relies in part, on the rights she suggests she has under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
In addition, Miss S complains about the customer service she received from Barclaycard. 
Specifically, she complains about how long it took to deal with matters, it promising service 
standards that it did not deliver, the difficulty she experienced in using its portal and about 
letters it says it sent and she says it did not.
Further, Miss S tells us that she missed out on being able to request that Barclaycard carry 
out a chargeback due to errors made by it.
Initially Barclaycard declined to uphold all of Miss Ss complaint. In particular, it suggested 
that there had been no misrepresentation merely a change of mind on Miss Ss part. In 
addition, it did not accept that there had been a breach of contract.  It tells us it did refund 
the interest. But as to the remainder of Miss Ss claim it did not agree to pay Miss S any of 
the money she asked for.
Dissatisfied, Miss S complained to our service.
Once the complaint was with us we received new information from both Miss S and 
Barclaycard. Miss S sent us information about the contact she had had with the retailer 
including information about the sale. Miss S indicated that when she purchased she had 
asked the retailer about watches with a silver dial face. The retailers position is that it gave 
her correct information about the watch with the silver dial face. Moreover the watch that 
Miss S had actually wanted had a white mother of pearl dial face. 
Barclaycard accepted that it should refund some of the charges. It also accepted it had not 
always provided Miss S with the level of customer service she was entitled to expect, and it 
offered her £100 for this.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint. She did not recommend that 
Barclaycard had to pay this compensation that Miss S wanted. Further she found that the 
£100 that Barclaycard had already offered was fair redress for its customer service failures.
Barclaycard accepted this recommendation, Miss S did not. In summary, Miss S mentioned 
that Barclaycard had not responded to her within prescribed limits. She repeated that 
Barclaycard had levied charges on her account when it ought not to have done and had 
taken too long to put this right. Miss S reiterated that the watch had been misrepresented to 
her, in her opinion. Moreover she thinks that she has sent in sufficient information to show 
this. She mentioned that in her view she was correct to describe the watch she wanted as 
having a sliver dial face. To support her stance she tells us I have also asked independent 
people to review the watch and no one has describes this as a white mother of pearl. Miss 
S told us again that her position is that the watch was sold to her with scratches and dents 
and this was a breach of contract. She also raised a new point telling us that selling her a 
watch which she says had scratches and a dent at the point of sale, was also a 
misrepresentation.
Miss S indicated she wanted an ombudsman to take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S seeks to rely in part, on the rights she suggests she has under Section 75. The 
general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss S has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier in this case that is the retailer, she can also bring a like claim 
against Barclaycard provided certain conditions are met. Miss S complains about Barclaycards response to her claim of misrepresentation and 
breach of contract under Section 75. I think its important to set out my role here. When I 
make a decision I take account of relevant law. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Ss complaint, Ive taken Section 75 
into account as it is relevant law. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Miss S pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. This service is an informal alternative to the courts.
It follows from what Ive said above, if I find that the contract was misrepresented to Miss S 
or breached then I would think it was fair and reasonable to ask Barclaycard to put things 
right. The parties disagree about whether the contract was misrepresented and whether it 
was breached. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ill look first at whether I think the contract was misrepresented and then at whether I think 
the contract was breached.
In this context misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that induced Miss S to 
enter into the contract. Miss S suggests the watch was misrepresented. Barclaycard 
suggests Miss S just changed her mind. The retailer suggests it gave Miss S correct 
information about the silver dial face watch and its not its fault that she in fact meant the 
white mother of pearl dial face watch.
I think it is clear here that Miss S and the retailer were talking at cross purposes. She was 
referring to the white mother of pearl dial face watch which in her opinion had a silver dial 
face. The retailer was talking about the official silver dial face watch. This was unfortunate. 
That said, as far as I am aware the retailer gave correct information about the silver dial face 
watch. I dont agree that it ought reasonably to have known that Miss S in fact meant the 
white mother of pearl dial face watch. I accept she made a genuine mistake, and I accept 
that other people she knows may well have described the white mother of pearl dial face 
watch as silver dial faced when she asked them. That does not mean that the retailer gave 
her inaccurate information that induced her to enter into the contract. 
For all of these reasons, I dont find that there was any misrepresentation here. It follows that 
I have no proper basis to say that Barclaycard has to pay the losses that Miss S suggests 
she only incurred because of what she sees as misrepresentation.
Miss S also suggests that because the watch had scratches and a dent it was 
misrepresented to her. This is a new argument and has not been investigated either by 
Barclaycard or by this service. It follows I have no power to look at this point in this decision.
Miss S tells us that the watch did not reach the quality standard she is entitled to expect 
because it had scratches and a dent. In order to uphold this part of her complaint Id need to 
be satisfied that it was more likely than not that the watch was in that condition when it was 
sold to her because that would be a breach of contract. She no longer has the watch. The 
information I have suggests this damage did exist. I accept that the damage was not visible 
to the naked eye. But I have no further information to show what most likely caused this type 
of damage. So I have nothing to show if the damage was more likely to be caused due to the 
day to day handling it might have experienced in a shop environment or if it might more likely 
have been caused by the sort of use that an owner might have subjected the watch to. 
However, in any event, I think I dont need to make a finding about this point. Because, even 
if I accepted that the watch was sold to her scratched and dented, that would not lead to me 
saying Barclaycard has to pay what Miss S identifies as her consequential losses. I say this 
because Miss S has already outlined that she returned to the retailer and ran up the 
expenses associated with this trip and with the exchange of the watch and the new watch because she wanted to return the watch which she considered had been misrepresented. 
The expenses had nothing to do with Miss S subsequently finding out, when she had already 
incurred these expenses, that the watch had scratches and a dent. It follows that I would 
have no proper basis for asking Barclaycard to pay these expenses in these circumstances.
Miss S tells us about a number of customer service issues that dissatisfied her, although this 
does not appear to be the main focus of her complaint. Barclaycard indicates it did not 
always give Miss S the level of customer service she is entitled to expect. It has recognised 
this likely caused her distress and inconvenience and it has offered her £100 for this. 
Although it does not accept all the points that Miss S continues to raise about this.
Miss S talks of Barclaycard not observing prescribed time limits. But this service is not the 
regulator for Barclaycard, we cannot punish Barclaycard for regulatory breaches like the 
regulator could. Moreover, Miss S suggests that on 5 March she received a letter from 
Barclaycard that was dated 2 March. She suggests the date of the letter was inaccurate and 
therefore malicious and unfair. I accept this may have been a typographical error or there 
may have been a delay in sending out the letter. However, I dont see how this is malicious 
or unfairly hampered the progress of the complaint. That said when I look at the overall 
impact of Barclaycard service failures Im satisfied that in the circumstances £100 is a fair 
offer.
Miss S talks about chargeback. The chargeback process allows credit card users to ask for a 
transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with goods or services paid for. There's no 
automatic right to a chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. 
The process is limited to specific criteria.   
Miss S suggests that Barclaycards delays meant she missed out on the opportunity to ask it 
to make a chargeback request on her behalf. Ive made no finding on this specific point 
about delay. This is because I think it would have made no difference. Looking at the 
chargeback rules there was no valid chargeback reason. Moreover, the retailer would very 
likely have defended the chargeback and succeeded. It follows that I find it was unlikely that 
any chargeback made on her behalf would have succeeded. It also follows that in the 
circumstances Miss S did not lose out even if Barclaycard caused her to miss the 
chargeback deadlines. Moreover she would not have been able recover any of what she 
sees as her consequential damages via this route in any event. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycards must pay Miss S 
£100 for distress and inconvenience as it has already agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman