DRN-3685991
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the service theyve 
provided when processing the replacement of her hob following her insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs S held a stove insurance policy with DGI. In February 2022, Mrs S contacted DGI to 
make a claim on this policy after she found a fault with her stove. DGI arranged for an 
engineer to attend Mrs S property, who deemed the parts needed for the repair obsolete. 
So, a repair couldnt be completed.
Mrs S spoke to DGI about this and requested a replacement stove be ordered, of the same 
brand and specification. This replacement was ordered for Mrs G and she was made aware 
on this call that DGI wouldnt cover the installation costs or any other linked expenses.
Mrs S received the replacement and it was connected and useable, but it didnt fit her 
worktop correctly. So, Mrs S called DGI to discuss this. DGI offered to uplift the replacement 
hob and send another replacement of a different make, as the brand Mrs S wanted didnt 
offer any alternative sizes. But Mrs S didnt want this, instead explaining she wanted DGI to 
send an engineer to re-size her worktop so the replacement hob she had would fit. DGI 
explained they wouldnt do this and Mrs S was unhappy, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs S was unhappy that DGI werent willing to send an engineer to fit the replacement hob 
she already had in her possession. She thought the insurance policy she held was designed 
to place her back in the position she was in before the fault to her original hob, and as this 
hob was of a certain make, she thought it was reasonable to expect a hob of the same brand 
to be fitted. So, she wanted DGI to cover the costs of any additional installation amendments 
needed to make the replacement hob fit.
DGI didnt agree as Mrs S policy didnt cover her for installation costs. And they thought 
their offer to uplift the replacement hob and provide a better fitting hob of another make was 
reasonable. They also explained Mrs S had now been in receipt of the replacement hob for 
more than 30 days and because of this, a return of this replacement was no longer available. 
So, DGI didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs S remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought DGI had acted 
in line with their terms and conditions when refusing to arrange, or cover the costs, for the 
alterations needed to fit the replacement hob as installation costs werent covered. And they 
thought DGI had acted fairly by offering Mrs S the chance for this hob to be uplifted and 
another hob of a different make and the correct size to be fitted. They also thought the 30-
day return window was made reasonably clear and because of this, they didnt think DGI 
needed to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree. She maintained her belief that the replacement DGI provided didnt place 
her in the position she was in and that this was unfair. She also explained DGI didnt make 
her aware on the phone that the offer of an alternative hob to the replacement would only be 
available for 30 days. So, Mrs S maintained her belief that DGI had acted unfairly and that 
they should cover the costs of the adjustments needed to fit the replacement hob she had in 
her possession. As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs S. I appreciate she took 
out the policy with DGI to help mitigate the financial burden in the event of an issue with her 
stove. So, when Mrs S received a replacement hob that didnt fit her appliance correctly and 
she was told shed need to cover the costs of any alterations to make it fit, I can understand 
why Mrs S would be unhappy.
But for me to say DGI have done something wrong, and so should cover the costs of these 
alterations, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the 
policy Mrs S held when they processed her claim. Or, if I think DGI did act within these, that 
they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs S held. And these explain that, in the 
event a product cant be repaired, DGI would look to arrange a replacement. Specifically, the 
terms and conditions explain we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same or 
similar make and technical specification.
Ive seen DGI originally arranged for a replacement of the same make, on the assumption it 
was of the same technical specification. But the replacement was slightly too big for Mrs S 
appliance. So, when DGI were made aware of this, Ive heard on the call with Mrs S that 
they offered to uplift the replacement hob which had already been attached, and order a hob 
of another make as the original manufacturer had no alternatives. So, Im satisfied DGI acted 
in line with their terms and conditions here.
In the call, Mrs S explained she wanted the hob of the original manufacturer. And Im 
satisfied she was aware at this point to ensure this was fitted completely, additional work 
would need to be undertaken to ensure this.
The terms and conditions of Mrs S policy also explain that In all cases you will be 
responsible for installing the new product and paying any related costs. So, I dont think DGI 
had an obligation under the terms of the policy to cover the additional costs Mrs S would 
incur to fit the hob as she wished, as these costs were all directly linked to the installation. 
So again, I dont think I can say DGI failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy 
here.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think DGI acted fairly. And I 
recognise Mrs S doesnt think they have, as she believes the policy she held is designed to 
ensure she is placed in the position she was in before her hob developed a fault.
But I dont think this is strictly true. The policy Mrs S had in place explained any replacement 
could be one of the same or similar make and specification. So, although I recognise it was 
Mrs S preference to have a replacement hob of the same brand as her appliance, this wasnt something DGI were obliged to provide. 
It's not in dispute that, for a hob of the same brand to be fitted completely to Mrs S 
satisfaction, additional installation work would be needed. And as Ive explained above, 
installations costs arent covered under the policy Mrs S held. So, I think DGI have acted 
fairly by first ensuring Mrs S received a replacement hob and, when they were told it didnt 
fit, offering Mrs S a reasonable alternative which Mrs S herself decided to refuse. Because of 
this, I dont think DGI need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. And I recognise she is unhappy 
that shes now been made aware an alternative is no longer available, due to the 30-day 
return window. While I appreciate Mrs S points regarding DGIs failure to make her aware of 
this on her phone calls with them, Im satisfied this return window was made clear in DGIs 
documentation. 
And even so, I think Mrs S made it reasonably clear she had no intention of returning the 
original replacement and Im satisfied it was always Mrs S intention to retain the 
replacement hob and have it fitted as she wished. And I think its also important to note 
throughout this time, the hob has been operational and able to be used. So, I wouldnt 
expect DGI to accept the return of a hob that had been used for an extended period of time. 
So, this return window, and the communication of this by DGI, hasnt impacted the decision 
Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman