DRN-3309737
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt help recover money he lost as part 
of an investment scam.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again. In summary, in 2020, Mr G was introduced to an investment opportunity by an 
individual he met through social media. He was led to believe that a company  which Ill call 
E  was offering cryptocurrency tokens at a discounted pre-sale value before being launched 
more widely. 
Mr G says that he was given access to Es website which looked legitimate, and he was 
eventually persuaded to invest. He used the services of a firm  Ill call it B  which 
converted the funds into cryptocurrency, which was then deposited into his account with E. 
The following payments were made through Mr Gs Santander debit card 
Date Merchant Amount
4 September 2020 B £1,610
7 September 2020 B £790
9 September 2020 B £1,400
Total loss £3,800
Mr G eventually realised hed been scammed when the individual he was in communication 
with through social media stopped responding to his messages, and he was unable to make 
withdrawals from his account with E. He asked for Santanders assistance in recovering the 
funds hed sent, but it said it was unable to help.
Unhappy with this, Mr G complained to Santander. It didnt uphold the complaint and Mr G 
referred it to our service. Our investigator concluded that Santander didnt act unfairly by not 
attempting a chargeback. It was also his view that the transactions were in line with Mr Gs 
general spending activity and werent so unusual that Santander ought to have intervened 
before allowing them to be made.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that although Ive only summarised the background 
and main arguments, so not everything that happened is mentioned, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided in its entirety. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Mr Gs dealings were with E, with whom he had an account. Given the information Ive found 
about E during my research, on balance Im satisfied that Mr G fell victim to a scam rather 
than simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. 
But Mr G didnt make the disputed payments to E; he paid B. This is important because 
Santander was only able to chargeback against the merchant he paid, not another party. 
Its my understanding that B is a cryptocurrency exchange platform. The service provided by 
the exchange would be to convert Mr Gs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, the 
merchant he made the payments to  B  did provide the service that had been requested. 
That the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer E  doesnt give 
rise to a valid chargeback claim. 
So, I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably by not presenting a chargeback 
for the disputed payments to B.  
While I dont think that Santander could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Mr Gs payments to B, Ive considered whether it ought to have intervened before allowing 
them to go through.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr G using his legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which he is liable unless 
theres evidence that Santander could and should reasonably have done more to protect 
him, and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. Santander ought to have been 
monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, 
to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I dont think there was a reason for Santander to have challenged any of the 
disputed payments. There was no regulator warning about B  the merchant he made the 
payment to  at the time the payments were authorised by Mr G. So, I wouldnt have 
expected the payments to have been flagged based on the merchant name alone. And looking at the operation of Mr Gs account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments, I dont consider the transactions as particularly unusual or suspicious such that 
they ought to have triggered Santanders fraud detection systems. As the investigator 
pointed out, Mr G had made payments of similar value during that period. It is true that Mr G 
had not made payments to the merchant in question previously. But this in and of itself 
doesnt mean that Santander ought to have automatically flagged the payments for 
additional verification. A bank must balance the extent to which it intervenes in payments to 
try and prevent fraud, against the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying 
legitimate transactions.
Mr G submits that in the past Santander has questioned him in detail about some 
transactions before releasing them. He queries why the same didnt happen on these 
occasions. I understand the point Mr G is making. I cant comment specifically on the 
transactions hes mentioned as being subject to further review, given they dont relate to the 
complaint before me. What I can say in this regard is that banks have fraud detection 
systems in place, with triggers based on different factors. How a bank chooses to set and 
adjust those triggers is generally a matter for its discretion. Thinking specifically about the 
transactions Mr G made to B, as Ive explained above, Im not persuaded they were so out of 
character that Santander ought to have intervened before releasing them.  
In summary, I dont think Santander ought to have prevented these authorised payments 
from being sent, and I dont think there was a viable route for it to raise a chargeback. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr G, not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But I can only fairly make an award if I think 
Santander caused, or contributed to, his loss. In this case, I think that its the cruel actions of 
the scammers that caused the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman