DRN-3964884
The complaint
Mr L and Miss M are unhappy with the level of service they received from 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited throughout a claim they made on their home 
insurance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, this complaint centres on the level of service Mr L 
and Miss M received during their claim for an escape of water (and sewage) into their home. 
In particular, the complaint is about avoidable delays and communication issues. The claim 
outcome is not in dispute.
RSA accepts its service fell short and that Mr L and Miss M have suffered undue distress 
and inconvenience as a result of its, and its agents, handling of the claim. In its final 
response to Mr L and Miss Ms complaint, RSA offered £50 compensation, in addition to 
£100 offered by one of its agents, and its apology.
One of our investigators considered Mr L and Miss Ms complaint and thought RSA needed 
to do more to put things right. She acknowledged that RSA had accepted its shortcomings 
and made an effort to put things right. But she didnt think £150 was sufficient compensation 
in the circumstances. She recommended RSA should increase the total compensation to 
£250.
RSA accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr L and Miss M didnt. So, as no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, and to award additional 
compensation. So, I issued a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to comment 
further on the award I was minded to make, before I reached my final decision. Heres what I 
said:
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator and 
award a higher amount of compensation. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should be clear here that this complaint focuses only on the level of service 
Mr L and Miss M received from RSA during its handling of their claim between 4 
January 2022 and the date of its final response letter 11 March 2022. Im aware that 
a second complaint has been made about events following 11 March 2022 and that 
RSA has awarded further compensation for that complaint. But I cant consider that 
here. Any compensation I award is for the initial, aforementioned time period only.
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline of events in her assessment of Mr L and 
Miss Ms complaint. I dont intend to repeat or restate the events in detail as the 
parties arent disputing that things went wrong. Instead, Ill summarise the issues at a 
high level, and will only mention in more detail the key issues which have led me to 
think that RSA should pay a higher level of compensation.
In its final response letter, RSA set out the various issues as follows:
Delay on the internal works including sanitisation
Delay in the allocation of your complaint
Delay in the reinstatement of the step
Delay in the collection of the driers
Delay in the settlement of the claim
Delay in the attendance of (redacted name of contractor)
Delay in repairs by (redacted name of contractor)
Calls made to the claims team
Failure to update
Excess collection
RSA doesnt accept that it was at fault for all of the above issues. It says some of the 
delays were due to Mr L needing to self-isolate as a result of COVID-19 and a 
dispute which arose around underinsurance. However, it has accepted that Mr L and 
Miss M needed to call numerous times for updates, that two of its agents both 
attempted to collect the policy excess, that repairs and drying were both delayed and 
that a step wasnt reinstated when it ought to have been, which resulted in Mr L 
injuring himself by walking on the step which its agent hadnt resecured.
Ive thought carefully about everything that happened. Its important to acknowledge 
that claims of this nature will be distressing and inconvenient by their very nature, 
and that isnt something which RSA can reasonably be held responsible for. Nor 
would it be reasonable to hold RSA responsible for the entire length of time the claim 
took to resolve, because some of the delays were outside of its control. However, 
from what Ive seen, I think RSA has caused some avoidable delays and 
compounded this by not being clear enough in its updates, resulting in Mr L and 
Miss M having to spend time calling and chasing RSA or its agents unnecessarily. 
Mr L and Miss M has explained the stress and worry this caused them, especially 
because of the potential impact the sewage could have had on their family. I think its 
understandable that they felt this way and I think this could have been avoided had 
RSA, and its agents, better managed the claim and communications.
In addition, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr L suffered an injury as a result of 
a timber step being left unsecured between its removal and scheduled reinstatement. 
While I can see that it was agreed the step would not be reinstated until after the date 
Mr L hurt himself, I agree with our investigator that RSA ought to have taken 
reasonable steps to make the site safe in the interim. As I understand it, the step was 
secured in place prior to RSAs contractors initial visit but not resecured, even 
temporarily, after that.I think RSA, as the principal of its agent, fell short here. And I think this issue 
compounded the other service issues Mr L and Miss M had already had to contend 
with up to that point. I understand this wasnt a significant or long-lasting injury. But 
suffering any injury would be upsetting and inconvenient and Im not persuaded that 
RSAs increased offer following our investigators assessment  £250  goes far 
enough to recognise the impact RSAs errors have had on Mr L and Miss M overall.
Taking into account everything that happened, I think a fairer amount of 
compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience RSA has caused Mr L 
and Miss M would be £500.
Both sides have responded to confirm that they accept my provisional conclusions. So, Im 
moving forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have confirmed they accept my provisional decision. So, as all parties are in 
agreement as to what is fair and reasonable in this case, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr L and Miss Ms 
complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Mr L and Miss M a total of £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have suffered as a result of its service 
failings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman