DRN-3978116
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Covea Insurance plcs decline of her pet insurance claim. My 
references to Covea include its agents.
What happened
Mrs S had pet insurance for her dog, insured by Covea since 2019. She had a Gold policy. 
Coveas policy renewal letter for 15 December 2021 said her annual premium would 
increase from £632.99 to £1,515.48, which is £126.29 a month.
On 16 November 2021 Mrs S called Covea to say the Gold policy renewal quote was too 
expensive and she wanted to look at possible alternatives. Covea quoted Mrs S £91.32 a 
month for the Silver policy (first instalment at £91.24), which she chose to have as it was 
considerably cheaper than the price shed been given for the Gold policy in the renewal 
letter. Unknown to Mrs S at the time, the £91.32 a month Covea quoted in the call was 
actually the price of the Gold policy.
The Silver policy started on 15 December 2021. Mrs S made a claim for her dogs eye 
treatment which started 28 December 2021. Covea declined the claim. It said the Silver 
policy was a new policy, not a continuation of the Gold policy, and as Mrs S dogs treatment 
started within the first 14 days of the new Silver policy there was no cover under the policy 
terms.
In December 2021 Covea took a policy premium payment of £91.24 from Mrs S bank 
account but collected no payment in January 2022 and February 2022. In April 2022 Covea 
emailed Mrs S to say the £91.24 it collected in December 2021 was incorrect as that was the 
premium for the Gold policy, not the Silver policy. The correct monthly premium for the Silver 
policy was £55.91. Covea told Mrs S that as shed made an overpayment it would the waive 
the January and February premiums and after that it collected monthly premiums of £55.91 
to the end of that policy year.
Mrs S complained to us. She said if Covea had correctly told her the price for the Gold policy 
in the November 2021 call she would have renewed the Gold policy and not taken the Silver 
policy, so her claim would have been covered. She wants Covea to pay the claim.
Our investigator said in the circumstances it was unfair of Covea to decline the claim. She 
recommended that:
Covea offer Mrs S the Gold policy from the 2021 renewal date and if she accepts it 
should assess the claim as if she had continuous cover under the Gold policy.
Covea should calculate the difference between what Mrs S should have paid if she 
had the Gold policy from 15 December 2021 to the policy end and what she paid for 
the Silver policy for that period and the difference should be deducted from what 
Covea pay out on the claim if the claim is accepted.
Covea should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Covea disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I uphold the complaint as I think Covea unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call between Covea and Mrs S. Covea told Mrs S the Silver policy would 
be treated as a new policy with no illness cover for the first 14 days of the policy. The policy 
says theres no illness cover for the first 14 days of the policy. Mrs S dogs treatment was 
within the first 14 days of her taking out the Silver policy so there was no cover for the claim 
under the Silver policy terms.
But the key issue is that when Mrs S was choosing what policy cover to buy Covea gave her 
wrong information about the cost of the different policies and that wrong information 
disadvantaged Mrs S.
In the call Covea clearly told Mrs S the premium for the Silver policy was £91.32 a month 
(first instalment at £91.24). That information was wrong as in Coveas April 2022 email to 
Mrs S it told her the £91.24 premium it first took was the price of the Gold policy.  
Im satisfied that if Covea had correctly told Mrs S the policy quote of £91.32 a month was 
for the Gold policy its more likely than not she would have continued with her Gold policy at 
the renewal rather than taking out the new Sliver policy. The £91.32 was considerably less 
than the quote Covea had given Mrs S in the renewal letter and she was happy to pay 
£91.32 a month for cover, as her acceptance of a policy at that price shows. 
If Mrs S had renewed the Gold policy there would have been continuation of cover under 
that policy. The no cover for illness within the first 14 days of a new policy exclusion wouldnt 
have applied. Mrs S claim could have been covered by the Gold policy, subject to that 
policys terms and conditions. So I think its unreasonable for Covea to decline the claim 
using illness within the first 14 days exclusion under the Silver policy. 
Covea needs to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if it had given her the 
correct information about the price of the Gold policy premium in the call. Ive set out what it 
needs to do to put things right below.
Ive awarded Mrs S compensation for her distress and inconvenience as she had to pay the 
claim and had the inconvenience of making this complaint, which wouldnt have been 
necessary if Covea had given her the correct quote information, as it should have done.
Putting things right
Covea must take the action Ive set out below.
My final decision
I uphold his complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
Offer Mrs S the Gold policy from the 2021 policy renewal date, 15 December 2021,  
and if she accepts it must assess her claim as if she had had continuous cover under 
the Gold policy, and
Calculate the difference between what Mrs S should have paid if she had the Gold 
policy from 15 December 2021 to the policy end and what she paid for the Silver policy for that period and deduct the difference from what it pays out on the claim, if 
the claim is accepted, and
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman