DRN-4009515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has unfairly declined a claim they made on 
their buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
Mr and Mrs H got in touch with QIC in September 2021 after noticing crack damage 
to their home, particularly the sunroom extension.
QIC carried out some investigations. Mr and Mrs H took advice from a structural 
engineer. QIC asked a surveyor to consider the evidence. They did so and thought 
the sunroom foundation wasnt deep enough for the site conditions.
QIC declined the claim. It said the damage had been caused by poor workmanship, 
which is excluded under the policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this Service. They said 
the sunroom had been approved by their local authority when it was built.
QIC maintained the foundation wasnt deep enough. It noted the drainage survey 
hadnt shown any leaks and tree roots hadnt been found in the subsoil investigation. 
Because of this, it said the shallow foundations had contributed to the subsidence 
movement. It offered to cover the subsidence damage. But it said it wouldnt deal 
with the cause of subsidence, noting this was excluded under the policy.
Our investigator didnt think QICs offer to cover the subsidence damage only was a 
fair one in the circumstances. She thought the evidence showed the main cause of 
subsidence was the clay subsoil. And in order to put this right with a lasting and 
effective repair, the cause of subsidence would need to be dealt with. She asked QIC 
to do that and pay £100 compensation.
QIC didnt agree with this. It acknowledged that carrying out superstructure repairs 
without resolving the cause of the movement wouldnt amount to a lasting and 
effective resolution. But nonetheless it thought it should be entitled to rely on the 
exclusion as it was set out in the policy.
Our investigator said the exclusion QIC was seeking to rely on was unusual and 
questioned whether it had been highlighted to Mr and Mrs H when the policy was 
sold. QIC accepted it was an unusual exclusion and it hadnt been highlighted. It 
reverted to the exclusion it had relied on earlier about poor workmanship.
Our investigator considered the complaint again in light of this. She wasnt satisfied 
QIC had shown the dominant cause of the subsidence movement was the foundation 
depth. So she maintained QIC should deal with the claim, including putting right the 
cause of subsidence. She also said QIC should reimburse Mr and Mrs H the cost of 
the structural engineer report they provided during the claim.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with this. QIC didnt. In summary, it said:
oThe foundation was 360mm deep. That was well below best practice 
guidance and Building Regulations which recommended a minimum of 
650mm and 750mm respectively.
oIts clear that a deeper foundation would have prevented movement. The 
main house has a deeper foundation but hasnt experienced movement.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC sought to rely on a policy term which said: we dont cover:  costs to repair the original 
cause of subsidence (for example, removing trees). 
After our investigator pointed out this was an unusual policy term, QIC accepted that point 
and conceded that it hadnt been highlighted at the point of sale, as unusual terms usually 
would be. It seems to have withdrawn this argument now.
But, for the sake of completeness, Ive thought about the position if it isnt withdrawn. Its a 
highly unusual policy term and yet it wasnt highlighted at the point of sale. So Mr and Mrs H 
werent made appropriately aware of it and given the chance to decide if they were prepared 
to buy a policy containing the term.
Even if the term had been highlighted, it significantly undermines the purpose of providing 
subsidence cover. As QIC accepted during our investigation, if the underlying cause of 
subsidence isnt remedied, the building wont be stabilised, and any superstructure repair 
wont be lasting and effective. This is likely to lead to significant consumer detriment  and 
this approach isnt at all consistent with the rest of the buildings insurance market.
So even if QIC hasnt withdrawn its reliance on this exclusion, Im not satisfied it would be 
fair and reasonable for QIC to rely on this policy term.
Turning to QICs other reason for declining the claim, it accepts the damage was caused by 
subsidence. But it says that was a result of a poorly designed foundation. The policy doesnt 
cover damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials or poor design.
For an insurer to rely on this kind of policy term, Id usually expect it to show:
when the structure was built
what the relevant regulations, standards or guidelines were at that time
how these werent met
and how that caused the damage claimed for.
Ive considered the evidence QIC has provided about these points.Mr and Mrs H had the sunroom built in 2004. Theyve shown it received a Certificate of 
Completion from their local authority. It confirms the requirements of Building Regulations 
were satisfied. Mr and Mrs H recently contacted the local authority and they confirmed their 
view that the foundation depths were compliant with regulations at the time of construction.
QIC has relied on the information contained within a Good Practice Guide for building 
conservatories which recommends a minimum foundation depth of 650mm. But the 
document is dated 2016, so its not relevant to a sunroom built in 2004.
Its also relied on information from Building Regulations which recommends a minimum 
foundation depth of 750mm. This didnt come into force until July 2004  after the sunroom 
had been built. So again, its not relevant. Prior to that, Regulations didnt specify a minimum 
foundation depth. What depth was appropriate was a judgement call for the designer, builder 
and Building Control to make based on the site conditions.
In this case, its clear that Building Control approved the sunroom foundation and consider it 
compliant with the regulation of the time. So I can only conclude it was satisfied that relevant 
Regulation and guidance was satisfactorily taken into account. And, having received sign off 
from the relevant authority, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H took appropriate steps to ensure the 
sunroom was built to the right standard. I dont think they could reasonably be expected to 
do more.
So, taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied QIC has shown the foundation was 
defective or that the damage was a result of poor workmanship or design of the foundation.
To put things right, it should now accept the claim in full. As I explained above, it wouldnt be 
fair for QIC to rely on the policy term which excludes dealing with the original cause of the 
subsidence problem. So QIC will need to establish what the cause is (or causes are) and 
take appropriate steps to stabilise the building before carrying out repairs.
What exactly is causing the movement and how to put it right hasnt been the primary focus 
of the complaint  the focus has been whether QIC can fairly decline the claim or not. So I 
wont make any findings about these points. But I think its important to note the comments 
of a chartered structural engineer Mr and Mrs H commissioned. They noted significant 
distortion to the main house, including sloping floors, as well as damage to the sunroom. 
They also shared some historical context about the likely subsoil conditions and suggested 
investigations take this into account. QIC should bear this in mind when taking the next 
steps.
Our investigator asked QIC to reimburse Mr and Mrs H the cost of the engineer report, which 
is £450. I agree that would be fair in the circumstances. I can understand why Mr and Mrs H 
turned to an appropriately qualified professional for advice. Their comments set out clearly 
and persuasively their view that QICs investigations were inadequate and lacked knowledge 
of the historical context. Whilst that hasnt had a significant impact on my findings in this 
decision, Im satisfied its contributed meaningfully to the claim and will be helpful when QIC 
takes the next steps with it.
QIC should also pay £100 compensation for the delay caused by not accepting the claim 
earlier.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require QIC Europe Ltd to:Accept the claim
Pay £450 to reimburse the cost of the engineer report*
Pay £100 compensation*
* QIC must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs H accept 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman