DRN-4254826
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (who Ill call VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services, was 
misrepresented to him. He also complains that VWFSs service when handling his complaint 
was poor.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I understand that VWFS have now allowed Mr G to reject the car he had been financing with 
them. The redress provided in those circumstances, would have been likely to be the same 
as I would have ordered if Id found the car to have been misrepresented. So, I will not 
consider the misrepresentation issue any further. But as the poor service Mr G has 
complained of was service he received during VWFSs investigation into his complaint about 
misrepresentation of the goods, I will consider that.
Mr G is disappointed that he hasnt received calls back from VWFS despite being promised 
them. Hes also explained that he was misinformed about the refund policy and about the 
process of returning the car to the dealership. In support of that hes provided a subject 
access request file. Ive not reviewed that as I dont think its necessary. VWFS havent 
sought to defend those allegations.
Ive considered the impact that poor service had on Mr G, and I can see that its delayed 
progress on his complaint and must have been frustrating for him. Hes been put to some 
inconvenience by VWFS but considering our usual approach to distress and inconvenience 
compensation I think a payment of £50 is sufficient.
Putting things right
Having considered the evidence on the file I would agree with the investigator that VWFS 
should pay Mr G £50 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr G £50 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman