DRN-1999155
The complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999 in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mrs W applied for the credit card. It 
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  so on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint because:
Mrs W says she was told she had to have PPI, she was pressured into taking it, and 
her father recalls this too. I cant know what was discussed in the meeting or how the 
PPI was presented to Mrs W. But Ive thought carefully about her comments and 
looked at the available paperwork from the sale. 
Mrs W indicated that she wanted PPI on the application form, and the option to decline 
it was set out with equal prominence. Mrs W has said the bank completed the form, 
she just signed it. But I think its reasonable to expect she would have read and been 
comfortable with the form before signing it. The PPI was listed in a section clearly 
headed Optional Features. I havent been able to find enough evidence to support her 
claim that she was pressured to take it. I accept that is her honest recollection of the 
sale, but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect 
what she remembers. 
Overall, I think the balance of evidence shows its most likely Lloyds made Mrs W 
aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs W says she was 
entitled to statutory sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up 
to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mrs W also says 
her parents would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection  its not 
guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. So, overall, I think PPI wouldve 
been useful to Mrs W if she lost her job or was sick and unable to work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But it seems Mrs W chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think 
it unlikely Mrs W wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs W has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman