DRN-2096657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W took out a joint Reward Platinum Account (RPA) with The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) which they say was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a joint Reward Platinum Account (RPA) in March 2018. It was 
downgraded to a Reward Account (RA) in August 2019.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were advised and pressured into taking out the RPA, but it was 
not suitable for them. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that RBS mis-sold the RPA. Mr and Mrs W disagree so the case 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
were Mr and Mrs W given a choice whether to take out the RPA and did they choose to do 
so?
I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were aware that bank accounts both with 
and without fees were available from RBS and other banks and financial institutions. 
I say this because such accounts were widely advertised in a very competitive market. And 
Mr and Mrs W say they had an account with a fee with another bank at the time of sale, and 
theyd previously had a fee free account. 
So, while I acknowledge what theyve said about their personal and medical circumstances 
at the time, if RBS had told Mr and Mrs W that they had to have a fee-paying account, or had 
tried to pressure them into taking an RPA and they hadnt wanted it, I think they would have 
queried this and looked into alternative products that were easily available. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice whether to pay 
a fee for the RPA or not and they chose to take it out. 
did RBS do what it should have done when it sold the RPA to Mr and Mrs W, or have they lost 
out as a result of anything RBS did wrong?
RBS says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
RPA to Mr and Mrs W personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs W say that RBS did 
advise them to take out the RPA. 
I dont know what was said during the sale. But Ill assume this was an advised sale as it is to 
Mr and Mrs Ws advantage and doesnt change the outcome of my decision.
This means RBS had to ensure that the RPA was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, and it had to 
provide Mr and Mrs W with enough information about the RPA so they could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
The RPA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, car 
breakdown cover, and Taste card membership. 
At time of sale Mr and Mrs W travelled, had mobile phones and cars and they registered for 
the Taste card membership.
So, I cant say that that the RPA was unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs W say they had 
alternative cover, but it was for them to cancel that cover and use the RPAs benefits as they 
saw fit.
RBS was trying to sell the RPA to Mr and Mrs W so I think it would have described it 
extensively to them in their meeting. And RBS has provided evidence of the information pack it 
gave to Mr and Mrs W describing the RPA.
Mr and Mrs W say that Mrs W had a pre-existing medical condition which affected the travel 
insurance. But I see from RBSs records that they declared this at the time of sale, and RBS 
told them that the medical condition would not be covered so they knew that before they 
bought the RPA.
Mr and Mrs W also say they were not covered on two occasions where they might have 
claimed on the travel insurance. RBS has explained that this was due to the short duration of 
the stays  a limitation which was included in the booklet providing the terms and conditions of 
the travel insurance.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice about the RPA, and they chose to take 
it out. I think the RPA was suitable for them and I dont think there was anything RBS didnt tell 
them that would have changed their minds and put them off taking it out.
I note that Mr and Mrs W have recently raised issues about the downgrading of their account 
to a Reward Account and how that Reward Account has subsequently operated. But they 
need to raise these first with RBS, and then if their complaint is not resolved, it can come to 
this service as a separate complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of the Reward 
Platinum Account.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman