DRN-3712148
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a fair settlement for his claim 
following damage to his car.
What happened
From August 2018, Mr M had a Classic car insurance policy with Ageas and had been 
happy with the policy on subsequent renewals. But Mr M said that when Ageas didnt offer 
him the option to renew the policy again, he decided to make a claim for damage caused by 
vandalism during the policy term. Mr M said Ageas only offered a valuation of £750 which he 
said was too low. He said hed seen online adverts for similar cars in similar condition for 
sale for around £1500. And hed also been told by the dealership his car should be valued 
between £1,000 and £1,500. He complained to Ageas and to settle he asked for £1,200 and 
the option to keep the car.
Ageas said theyd an independent engineer assess Mr Ms car and hed noted that in the 
current market similar cars were selling for around £1500.00, but that this was without any 
pre accident damage. The exterior car doors had been kicked and damaged following an act 
of vandalism which was the damage Mr M was claiming for. But the engineers report 
highlights other damage to the car not related to the vandalism claim. Ageas said they 
settled the claim by reducing the value of Mr Ms car by 50% to take into account its 
condition. They offered to settle the claim by paying Mr M this amount less his policy excess, 
£650.
As Mr M wasnt happy with the settlement offer and wanted to keep the car, they said they 
would deduct a salvage amount of £160, which would mean Mr M kept his car and had a 
cash settlement of £490.
Mr M didnt accept this and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Ageas had acted fairly and responsibly in settling Mr Ms claim and 
didnt ask them to do anything differently.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see Mr M is upset, while I empathise with the position he finds himself in, for me to say 
Ageas must do something different I must first be satisfied that theyve done something 
wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything 
else.
Mr M took out an agreed value motor insurance policy. Typically, these are taken out for
classic cars  and pay out the pre-determined value (the agreed value) of the car. This
differs from normal motor policies, where the market value at the time of a theft or total loss
claim is what gets paid out.
In reaching my decision Ive considered whats a fair settlement for Mr Ms car. This means 
Ive looked at two things, what would be a fair value for Mr Ms car and what other factors 
could affect this value
Mr Ms policy says:
We will not pay more than the market value of your classic car (including any
accessories and spare parts or toolkit) at the time of the loss or damage, less any
excess that may apply, unless there is an agreed value for your classic car shown on
your schedule.
I can see that there is an agreed value noted in Mr Ms policy summary of £1500.
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types
of complaints we would usually check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the 
insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them. But due to the age of Mr Ms car there 
isnt a valuation listed in the guides. But I can see that the engineer Ageas asked to inspect 
Mr Ms car considered an online advert for a similar make and model to that of Mr Ms.  And 
this is the same online advert Mr M has also sent to us. This car was valued at £1,495, and 
from the photograph seems to be in a good condition. The mileage for this car is 
considerably less than the mileage showing on Mr Ms odometer. So, I think the agreed 
value falls in line with what Id consider reasonable. 
Ive now considered whether there were any factors that could affect this value.
Ageass engineer described Mr Ms car in fair condition. But goes on to describe a number 
of pre-incident issues with the car, which include, corrosion to the near and offside rear wing 
arches, corrosion to the tailgate, fabrication work, plates wielded to the doors, drivers seat 
cover worn through and the odometer shows the same mileage as that noted on the cars 
2010 MOT certificate.
The engineers report goes on to say:
The costs to return the vehicle to retail condition is not applicable as the vehicle is too old to 
be listed in the Glass's guide. Actual mileage cannot be verified due to odometer fault.
Rectification costs £1500,00 less 50% = £750,00.
 
Our general approach when estimating the cost of repairing pre-incident damage is to divide 
the estimated rectification work by two and then to deduct that figure from the settlement. 
We consider this to be a simple way of assessing a fair reduction when handling this type of 
complaint.
So, I consider Ageas has valued Mr Ms car in line with the agreed value and made 
deductions for some pre-existing damage. Ive seen photographs of Mr Ms car and there clearly was some pre-existing damage, so this doesnt seem unreasonable and the 
deductions have been made in line with our general approach. 
I can see that after Mr M asked to keep his car Ageas offered to agree to this deducting a 
further £160 from the settlement offer to reflect this. As I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably its for Mr M to decide whether to accept this offer, if its still available to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman