DRN-3591395
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim he
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill call F. He was due to travel with his partner in
June 2020. On 25 February 2020, Mr B took out a sole single trip travel insurance policy to
cover the holiday. The policy was sold by a broker and underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr B
paid an additional premium to take out an optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE) to the
cover, which provided extended cover in certain circumstances.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation advised against all but essential
travel abroad as a result of Covid-19. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. This advice was
still in place at the point Mr B was due to go on holiday, so he didnt travel as planned.
Mr B was able to recover some of his costs. However, he was unhappy that the ferry
company hed booked through had offered him a credit voucher for his ticket costs. Mr B had
also booked two nights in a hotel. Itd initially been indicated that the hotel too would offer a
credit voucher for the booking, but Mr B hadnt had a response from the hotel when hed got
in touch with it. So he made a claim on his policy for the costs associated with these
bookings.
Great Lakes turned down Mr Bs claim. It said that the TDE only covered a policyholders
irrecoverable losses. It considered that both the ferry company and the hotel company had
offered credit vouchers for the full value of Mr Bs loss. So it concluded hed been able to
recover his losses from the travel providers.
Mr B was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. He noted that the TDE
covered holiday cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. So he felt Mr Bs
circumstances were covered by the TDE. But he acknowledged that the TDE only covered a
policyholders irrecoverable losses. The ferry company had offered Mr B a credit voucher
which would be valid for 12 months. The investigator recognised that due to ongoing travel
restrictions between the UK and F in 2020 and 2021, Mr B was unlikely to have been able to
make use of the ferry voucher. But he noted that the ferry companys website suggested that
it was able to extend vouchers further, so he felt Mr B mightve been able to extend his own
voucher. He concluded that Mr B hadnt suffered an irrecoverable loss for the cost of his
ferry booking. And so he felt itd been fair for Great Lakes to turn down this part of the claim.
However, the investigator noted that Mr B hadnt received a response to his refund request
from the hotel. While he accepted it may have been the hotels responsibility to refund Mr Bs
costs  by cash or in the form of a voucher - he also considered specific guidance from the
industry regulator in relation to refunds. In brief, this stated that a consumer shouldnt have
to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. And that it was reasonable for a
consumer to stop pursuing a refund at the point it was clear that none would be forthcoming.
So he felt it would be fair for Great Lakes to pay Mr Bs claim for his hotel costs.
Mr B agreed with the investigators assessment and said hed get in touch with the ferry
company to look into a voucher extension.
Great Lakes agreed in principle. But it felt it should only be liable to pay 50% of the claim
costs. Thats because Mr Bs partner had also planned to stay in the hotel, but she wasnt
insured by the policy. So it didnt see why it should cover her share of the costs too.
Our investigator considered the cancellation cover provided by the TDE. He thought the
policy wording suggested that any irrecoverable cancellation costs incurred by a policyholder
would be covered. He didnt think the policy wording for this section limited payment to a
policyholders share of the costs. As he was satisfied Mr B had paid for the costs hed
claimed, he still felt Great Lakes should pay Mr Bs hotel costs in full, plus interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Mr Bs complaint should be partly upheld. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Bs policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether Great Lakes
has treated him fairly.
The ferry tickets
First, whilst Mr B originally included his return ferry costs in his claim, it seems that hes now
accepted the investigators assessment that it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down this
element. Specifically, the investigator found that the offer of a credit voucher for the full value
of the ferry ticket did represent a recovery of Mr Bs travel costs at the time Great Lakes
assessed the claim. And that it was open to Mr B to get in touch with the ferry company to
ask whether it was prepared to extend the voucher, given itd expired in June 2021. Mr B told
us that he accepted the investigators view and that hed get in touch with the ferry company.
As Mr B agreed with this investigators assessment in relation to the ferry costs, I dont think
I need to make a detailed finding on this point. Id simply add that I agree with the
investigators findings for much the same reasons. If the ferry company doesnt agree to
extend the credit voucher, it will be open to Mr B to provide Great Lakes with evidence to
show that this loss has now become irrecoverable.
The hotel
Ive carefully considered the cancellation cover provided by the TDE. This section provides
extended cancellation cover for a policyholders irrecoverable costs if a policyholder cant
travel because the FCDO has advised against all but essential travel to a policyholders
destination. In this case, theres no dispute that Mr B couldnt travel as planned because the
FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to F. And it appears that Great Lakes now
accepts that given the hotel didnt respond to Mr Bs refund request, this loss has now
become irrecoverable. On that basis, all parties agree that Mr B has a valid TDE claim.
The outstanding issue for me to decide then is whether Great Lakes need only to pay half of
these costs following a reassessment of the claim. Great Lakes maintains that as only Mr B
was insured by the policy and only he paid a premium, its fair and reasonable to only cover
his share of the hotel costs. I acknowledge that Great Lakes contract was with Mr B alone
and in general, I wouldnt usually find it unreasonable for an insurer to limit settlement to a
policyholders share of any holiday costs.But having looked very carefully at the policy wording, in this particular case, I currently think
it would be fair for Great Lakes to assess the full claim costs. The TDE section of the
contract says Great Lakes will provide the following cover:
What is covered
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have purchased the
optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover per
insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other
prepaid charges) which you have paid or are contracted to pay, plus any reasonable
additional travel expenses incurred if you were not able to travel and use your booked
accommodation or the trip was cut short before completion (Emphasis added)
In my view, the TDE cover suggests that Great Lakes will cover any irrecoverable costs
which a policyholder has paid for. Theres no exclusion to state that only a policyholders
share or proportion of any costs will be met, or that theres no cover for a parts of trips which
a policyholder has paid for as a gift for their travelling companion. If Great Lakes had
intended to limit cover to a policyholders own share of the trip costs, it was open to it to do
so within the contract terms. This is in contrast to the main cancellation section of the policy,
which is worded differently and states that your travel and accommodation costs will be
paid, rather than any costs. Your is defined as: Each person named on the Validation
Certificate, and for whom the required premium has been paid. I consider the wording of the
main cancellation section does limit cover to a policyholders own costs in a way that the
TDE section simply doesnt.
I think then that the drafting of the TDE is unclear as to the scope of the cover Great Lakes
intended to provide. I accept Great Lakes didnt intend to cover the share of a non-insured
persons holiday costs. But I dont think this is clearly and unambiguously set out in the TDE
section of the policy. I think that a reasonable person would understand that any travel and
accommodation costs were covered by this section, so long as the policyholder had paid for
them. As Great Lakes knows, where a policy term has been drafted ambiguously, it must be
interpreted in favour of the party who didnt draft it. In this case, thats Mr B.
Mr B says that he paid the full cost of the hotel. So I think the fair outcome on the specific
facts of this case is for Great Lakes to now reassess Mr Bs full claim for the hotel costs, in
line with the TDE section of the policy and the remaining policy terms and conditions. It will
be for Mr B to provide Great Lakes with any evidence it may require to establish that he
alone paid for the hotel.
I asked both parties to send me any additional or evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr B had nothing further to add.
Great Lakes disagreed with my provisional findings. In brief, it said:
It wouldnt be expected to cover a non-insured persons medical expenses, even if 
they were travelling with an insured person whod paid their medical costs. The same 
would go for the cancellation section of the policy, which would only cover an insured 
person for their accommodation costs. This cover would not be extended to those not 
insured by the policy, regardless of whether Great Lakes policyholder had paid the 
accommodation costs;
It noted that Id accepted that the TDE was only intended to provide cover for an 
insured persons costs; but that as this hadnt been stated, it was ambiguous. It said 
that this was an optional extension and provided extended cancellation cover. So it 
therefore believed that the policy wording was clear and unambiguous and only intended to cover an insured persons own non-refundable travel and 
accommodation costs;
If I were to find that the wording was ambiguous and required the full conditions set 
out in the cancellation section of the policy to also be set out in the TDE section, this 
would commensurately increase the length of the policy wording, which was already 
50 pages in length.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think that Mr Bs complaint should be partly upheld and Ill explain 
why.
Great Lakes has referred me to the cover set out under the cancellation section of the policy 
and has also referred to the extent of medical expenses cover. As I explained above, I 
acknowledge that section 1 of the contract  cancellation (which is detailed on page 15 of 
the terms)  makes it clear that only a policyholders share of their cancellation costs will be 
covered by Great Lakes. Similarly, I agree that the medical expenses cover set out makes 
clear that it only applies to named insured persons.
However, TDE cover is a separate, optional extension on cover and is detailed on page 30 
of the contract. It includes its own explanation as to what cover Great Lakes provides under 
this section of the policy and is worded differently to the cancellation cover. Key here is that 
the TDE provides cover for any irrecoverable travel and accommodation costs a person 
named on the validation certificate has paid.
While I appreciate Great Lakes may only have intended to cover a policyholders own share 
of the cancellation costs under this section of the policy, it remains the case that it hasnt 
made such an intention clear. Instead, in my view, upon reading the terms of the TDE, any 
reasonable person would understand that any irrecoverable, unused travel and 
accommodation costs a policyholder had paid would be met in the event of a successful 
claim under this section. So Im still persuaded that the policy wording is ambiguous on this 
point and therefore, must be interpreted in Mr Bs favour.
I note Great Lakes concern upon the potential impact upon the length of the policy were it to 
change its wording. However, I dont find this to be a persuasive argument or relevant in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, given Ive found that the TDE cover here is 
unclear.  Nor do I think that any potential clarification in the policy terms would necessarily 
result in the length of the contact being materially extended.
Overall then, I remain satisfied that the fair outcome on the facts of this case is for Great 
Lakes to now reassess Mr Bs claim for the hotel costs in line with the TDE section of the 
policy and the remaining terms and conditions of the contract.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes SE to reassess Mr Bs full claim for the hotel costs, in line with
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman