DRN-4066542
The complaint
Mr N complains about delays in transferring his pension from ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) 
to a new provider. Mr N says he suffered financial loss in consequence of the delays. 
What happened
I dont think what happened is disputed. Mr N wanted to transfer his pension plan with 
ReAssure to a new provider. The necessary completed paperwork was received by 
ReAssure on 12 August 2021. When Mr Ns new provider contacted ReAssure for an update 
on 18 August 2021 ReAssure said there was a 25 day turnaround for processing the 
transfer. When the new provider called again on 21 September 2021 ReAssure said 
payment was awaiting authorisation and once that had been done the payment would take 3 
to 5 working days to clear with ReAssure. 
The new provider chased again on 30 September 2021. ReAssure said payment had been 
authorised on 26 September 2021 and it would be 3 to 5 working days for the payment to 
clear. But the new provider didnt receive the payment and called again on 21 October 2021. 
Initially ReAssure said the payment had been made on 26 September 2021. But it was then 
established that the payment hadnt been sent. ReAssure called the new provider the same 
day to explain, due to the size of the transfer payment, two authorised signatories at 
ReAssure were required. The second signature was missing which was the reason for the 
delay. That was to be done that day so the money would be with the new provider within 3 to 
5 working days. The new provider received the funds on 26 October 2021. The money was 
invested by the new provider on 11 November 2021.
Mr N complained to ReAssure in January 2022 about the delay. Mr N said hed suffered a 
loss of about £28,900 (based on buying 18,314 units less in the new fund). In their final 
response letter ReAssure accepted theyd been responsible for delays and offered £200 for 
distress and inconvenience. ReAssure also said it would carry out a loss assessment to 
ensure Mr N hadnt been financially disadvantaged. The loss assessment was completed on 
26 September 2022. ReAssure calculated that Mr N had suffered a loss of £23,173.92, 
based on 17,064.743 less units in the new providers fund. 
The complaint was referred to us and one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened and, in particular, given that ReAssure and Mr Ns new provider didnt agree as to 
what the loss was, how Mr Ns loss should be fairly calculated. 
The investigator said the difference in the calculations was mainly due to using different 
investment dates. The starting point was to determine what wouldve happened if thered 
been no delay. The completed transfer forms were received on the 12 August 2021 and 
ReAssure said thered be a 25 day turnaround. So the transfer payment shouldve been sent 
on 17 September 2021. Payments can take 3 to 5 working days. The money was actually 
sent on 21 October 2021 and received by the new provider on 26 October 2021 which was 3 
working days. If the money had been sent on 17 September 2021 it wouldve been received 
on 22 September 2021. 
As to when it wouldve been invested, the new provider had suggested 8 working days. But, 
looking at what actually happened, the new provider received the money on 26 October 
2021 and the funds were invested 12 working days later. Using the time actually taken 
meant, if the money was received on 22 September 2021, it wouldve been invested 12 
working days thereafter, so on 8 October 2021. As that date differed from the one used by 
either ReAssure or the new provider the investigator set out how ReAssure should calculate 
Mr Ns losses. The investigator also said ReAssure should pay a further £100 (in addition to 
the £200 ReAssure had already paid) for distress and inconvenience due to the time it had 
taken ReAssure to complete the loss calculations. 
ReAssure didnt accept the investigators view. ReAssure set out how their loss calculation 
had been carried out and the dates used. ReAssure said the payment was released by 
BACS on 21 October 2021 and invested on 12 November 2021. Using a 10 working day 
service standard between receipt of the transfer request and releasing the funds meant the 
payment shouldve been released on 26 August 2021. Using the actual time taken to invest 
(16 working days) meant the money wouldve been invested on 20 September 2021. So that 
date had been used for calculating Mr Ns loss. ReAssure also didnt accept that a further 
payment of £100 should be made. Amongst other things ReAssure said it was dependent on 
information from the new provider. 
The investigator replied saying that during the call on 18 August 2021 the new provider was 
told there was a 25 working day turnaround. The investigator also maintained the further 
payment of £100 (so £300 in all) was justified. The new provider had sent the necessary 
information to ReAssure on 12 July 2022. The loss assessment wasnt complete until 26 
September 2022, nearly 11 weeks later, which delay had caused further distress to Mr N. 
ReAssure replied saying the normal service standard was 10 working days. But that could 
be affected by external events, such as the pandemic, or unexpected rises in requests 
received. The 25 working day turnaround was quoted in the midst of the pandemic and so 
timeframes were extended. ReAssure uses a ten working day service standard as a baseline 
for all loss assessments so that all policyholders are treated fairly. ReAssure confirmed that, 
after further consideration, it was now prepared to pay the additional £100.  
The investigator noted what ReAssure had said about using a ten working day turnaround. 
But he said his investigation was based on the facts at the time. Mr N had been told by 
ReAssure that the turnaround time was 25 working days. The investigator had reached his 
view based on what wouldve happened had there been no delay in making the transfer 
payment. If the signatures hadnt been missed, the payment wouldve been sent (using the 
latest date) 25 working days after receipt of the transfer paperwork. The investigator 
maintained the dates hed used should stand. 
ReAssure replied saying each company within the industry will have its own service 
standards, as multiple adjudications and final decisions received from this service had 
confirmed. And where the 10 working day service standards had been questioned, the final 
decisions weve issued normally quote the June 2006 Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
statement of good practice which says requests relating to transfers should be completed 
within 10 working days. 
The investigator maintained that using a 25 working days turnaround was reasonable as that 
was the service level agreement at the time of the transfer. 
ReAssure didnt agree. ReAssure referred to customers choosing the date on which they 
wanted their benefits to be calculated which could be considered to be playing the market. 
ReAssure asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman. The investigator said that it wasnt the consumer whod picked the date but rather the date 
had been suggested by this service. He confirmed the matter would be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure accepts there were delays in processing Mr Ns transfer and has offered 
compensation. ReAssure is prepared to pay in total £300 for distress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr N which includes the additional payment in respect of the time taken by 
ReAssure to complete the loss assessment. I think the sum of £300 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. The issue thats left 
is how Mr Ns financial loss should be calculated and, in particular, the dates that should be 
used in looking at when, but for ReAssures delays, the transfer payment wouldve been sent 
to Mr Ns new provider and then invested.  
ReAssure has argued very strongly that a 10 working day turnaround time should be used. I 
agree that wed often have regard, in considering whether thered been any delay, to 
industry standards and guidelines. I have to determine a complaint by reference to what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in considering 
that, Im required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
So, where theres an issue about whether a switch to another provider has taken too long, 
we might refer, for example, to the best practice guidelines issued by the Transfers and Re-
registration Industry Group (TRIG) published in 2018 to help us decide how long things 
shouldve taken. But we decide cases on their individual facts and merits. Here ReAssure 
quoted a 25 working day turnaround time to Mr Ns new provider who accepted that. Mr Ns 
expectations were set on the basis of the 25 working day turnaround notified and the 
process managed by the new provider accordingly. If ReAssure was actually working to a 10 
day timeframe then I think ReAssure shouldve said that. 
ReAssure has said the pandemic meant it had to allow more time. So ReAssure seems to be 
saying, although a 10 day window would normally apply, ReAssure gave itself extra time 
because of difficulties caused by the pandemic. Im not sure I entirely agree with ReAssure 
when it says that Mr Ns transfer request came in the midst of the pandemic. I think by 
August 2021 things  in terms of how business were coping during the pandemic and the 
different arrangements or processes that had to be put in place to ensure business as usual 
 were more settled. But I dont think ReAssure can in effect have it both ways  that is 
quote a 25 working day turnaround and then say, when that wasnt met, that it shouldve 
done things quicker and by reference to its usual service standard and not adjusted because 
of the prevailing circumstances. 
All in all I think the approach taken by the investigator in using the 25 working day 
turnaround ReAssure said would apply is fair and reasonable. In saying that Id point out that 
different scenarios might dictate a different approach. And there may be other solutions, any 
of which might properly be regarded as fair and reasonable. 
Against that background I think the redress the investigator suggested is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case. It aims to put Mr N in the position hed be in now if the 
transfer had proceeded as ReAssure set out and allowing for the time it wouldve taken for the money to reach the new provider and be invested, based on how long the new provider 
actually took and which was a little longer than might normally apply. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr N fairly ReAssure Limited must: 
Compare the performance of Mr Ns investment with that of the fund below. If
the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
Add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If theres a loss, ReAssure Limited should pay into Mr Ns pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If ReAssure Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ns pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ns actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume hell 
likely be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, if Mr N wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr N in total £300 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
Provide details of the calculations to Mr N in a clear and simple format. 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Fund From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Mattioli 
WoodsStill exists 
and liquidFP Mattioli 
Wood 
Adventurous 
B Inc8 October 
2021Date of 
settlement Not 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it been invested
from the start date.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those payments are totalled and that figure deducted at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Limited must redress Mr N as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman