DRN-2312081
The complaint
Mrs F, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W, trading as N, complain that U K Insurance Limited, trading 
as NIG Insurance, unfairly declined their claim made under a commercial insurance policy 
following losses suffered as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
Mrs F, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W, trading as N, have the benefit of a property owners insurance 
policy underwritten by U K Insurance Limited. The policy is an NIG Insurance branded policy 
but in this decision, for the sake of simplicity, I shall just refer to UKI. Similarly, for the sake 
of simplicity, and as most of the submissions have been made by her, Ill just refer to Mrs F.
Mrs F has made a number of submissions. I have considered all of these, and all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. But as all parties are aware of these, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key events and key complaint points.
N rents out commercial property, including a pub. This pub was required to close in late 
March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the 
spread of Covid-19. And the rent due from the landlord of this pub to N was unpaid as a 
result. 
Mrs F made a claim on the policy for these losses. UKI declined the claim, saying no cover 
was provided by the policy in the circumstances. They said there hadnt been any physical 
damage to the insured property. And the disease extension under the Rent Receivable 
section was a list of specified diseases that did not include Covid-19.
Mrs F complained, and when UKI didnt alter its decision, the complaint was referred to this 
service. Our investigator referred to a number of parts of the policy, but explained that he 
didnt think any of these offered cover in the circumstances. Mrs F maintained that the claim 
should be met. 
Mrs Fs main arguments are:
Loss of use of the pub/property constitutes a physical loss/damage
So several clauses under The Structure section of the policy apply
As does the main area of cover under the Rent Receivable section and a couple of 
specific extensions
And the Denial of Access sub-clause in Section 4 provides cover because Ns 
premises were closed does in accordance with instructions issued by a statutory 
body.
The complaint has been referred to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on N. But having 
considered the evidence, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is to consider the specific policy N took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy N 
holds with UKI to determine whether there are any sections that would require UKI to meet 
the claim Mrs F is making. Having done so, I dont think there are.
Damage
The policy provides cover for a number of situations. It is also split into different sections 
focusing on different types of cover. The most relevant sections to this complaint are Section 
1: The Structure and Section 4: Rent Receivable. The main cover provided by both of these 
sections relates to situations where there has been Damage. So, I consider the most 
relevant point to determine is whether or not there has been Damage.
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
In the main, the policy requires this damage to have occurred to material property either 
owned by or in the vicinity of Ns premises. Mrs F has said that Covid-19 has caused 
Damage. But I do not agree.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, it is possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage. 
Covid-19 is a disease that harms people, not material property. I have not seen any specific 
evidence to support SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19), actually being present in 
Ns premises, either in the air on or surfaces. I accept this is a possibility though. However, it 
is normal that viruses generally exist on surfaces and in the air. And the Governments 
guidance on cleaning during the Covid-19 pandemic didnt recommend any cleaning by a 
specialist. There is no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 on any relevant 
property. And the mere presence of any particular virus is not automatically damage. In my 
view, it wouldnt constitute damage to property unless it impacted the property in the way Ive 
mentioned above, and there is no evidence that SARS-CoV-2 has caused any physical 
change or altered the state of any property.
Mrs F has suggested that the loss of use of property could be considered Damage. But I do 
not consider mere temporary loss of use to be Damage. In my view, N would have had to 
have been physically deprived of its property in circumstances where that property could not 
be recovered, or at least where recovery was uncertain. This is supported by case law such 
as TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), which  similar to 
the current claim  considered a claim from a policyholder who had to close their premises 
as a result of Covid-19.
Ultimately, I do not consider there to have been Damage to material property as a result of 
Covid-19, or the government lockdown measures, which would mean UKI should have met 
this claim. As Mrs F has raised them, I will refer briefly to some of the specific areas of cover 
which require there to have been such Damage.Section 1 provides cover:
In the event of Damage at the Premises to any Property Insured in connection with 
the Business occurring during the Period of Insurance and caused by any of the 
Contingencies (where stated in the Schedule), We will pay to You the value of such 
Property Insured or the amount of the Damage at the time of such Damage or, at Our 
own option, reinstate or replace such property.
The Contingencies are a list of events, such as fire, flood, etc. They do include Riot and Any 
Accidental Cause, which Mrs F has referred to, but I do not think either of these 
Contingencies are relevant. 
This section effectively says that where property has been damaged or lost, the insurer will 
pay the cost of replacing or repairing that property. No repairs or replacement of property 
insured by the policy has been necessary. As such, there is no claim that can be made 
under this section. 
This section also includes a number of extensions. I do not consider any of these offer cover 
in the circumstances. But, as Mrs F has referred to two of them, I will add some further 
comments. 
One of the extensions to Section 1 is that named European Union and Public Authorities. 
But again, this extension relates to a situation where Damage has occurred requiring 
reinstatement works to take place. That is not the case here, and so I do not consider this 
extension offers cover in the circumstances.
The second extension to Section 1 that Mrs F has referred to is in relation to Ground Rent 
and provides cover where the insured premises are uninhabitable. I do not consider the 
lockdown measures taken by the Government made the premises uninhabitable. All 
premises remained habitable by those who inhabited them. I also think, given the wording 
refers to cover applying during the period of reinstatement, this extension clearly relates to 
situations where the premises have been Damaged. As such, I do not consider this 
extension applies to the circumstances of this claim. 
Section 4 provides more detailed cover for loss of rent, saying:
If any property owned by You or for which You are responsible sustains Damage, for 
which liability has been admitted under Sections 1 or 2, causing an interruption of the 
Business which results in loss of Rent Receivable We will indemnify You
For this main part of the section to offer cover, there must have been Damage which has 
caused an interruption of business. Covid-19 did not cause damage to or loss of material 
property owned or in the responsibility of N. So, I do not consider there to be cover for the 
claim under this main part of the section. 
One of the extensions to Section 4 is Prevention of Access. But again, this requires property 
in the vicinity of the premises to have been Damaged  causing a prevention or hindrance of 
use or access. No property was damaged. As Ive set out above, I do not consider the 
temporary loss of use to be Damage.
A further extension under Section 4 is Loss of Attraction. However, there is a similar 
requirement for the cause of loss to have been Damage to buildings or property. For the 
same reasons Ive set out above, I do not consider this extension to provide cover in the 
circumstances of this claim. There are a number of further extensions to Section 4 that do not require the cause of loss to 
be Damage and I will refer below to the most relevant one of these.
Contingency Rent Extensions for Landlords Protection extension
There are some conditions to this extension which would have to be met for a claim to be 
relevant. These include having certain provisions contained in the relevant lease. I have not 
felt it necessary to explore these however, as I do not think the sub-clauses under this 
extension provide cover in the circumstances. 
These sub-clauses are a) Denial of Access and b) Disease, Vermin, Defective Sanitary 
Arrangements, Murder and Suicide. 
The most relevant part of the Denial of Access sub-clause says cover is provided for:
Loss as insured caused by prevention or hindrance of access to the Premises or 
prevention of use of the Premises in consequence of any property or rights of way in 
the immediate vicinity of the Premises being
iv closed down or sealed off in accordance with instructions issued by the police or 
by any other statutory body except where the cause of such closure or sealing is due 
to the condition of the Premises or the business carried on within the Premises; Your 
or lessees non compliance with a prior order of the police or any statutory body; 
action taken as a result of drought or diseases or other hazards to health
This sub-clause does provide cover where there has been a prevention or hindrance of 
access or use as a result of the premises being closed down on the instruction of a statutory 
body. This is what happened in this claim. But the sub-clause then lists a number of 
exclusions to this cover, including action taken as a result of disease. 
Whilst the Government issued instructions and then made regulations leading to the closure 
of N in March 2020, these instructions and regulations were actions taken as a result of 
Covid-19 which is a disease. As such, this sub-clause does not cover the circumstances of 
this claim. 
The final area of cover in the policy that I will refer to is the Disease, Vermin, Defective 
Sanitary Arrangements, Murder and Suicide sub-clause. 
There are several parts to this sub-clause, the first of which provides cover where there has 
been, at the premises, an occurrence of one of a specified list of diseases. Having 
considered the list of illnesses set out in the policy, Im not persuaded this part of the sub-
clause provides cover in the current circumstances. Covid-19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something UKI might have 
known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. Thats 
because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present pandemic. These tend 
to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated on a 
Government defined list. 
However, the policy in this complaint sets out a list of the illnesses which are covered by the 
policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and effect of 
the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are many 
potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS (another type of coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out in the policy. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think UKI acted unfairly by turning down 
the claim Mrs F made. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mrs F and the other 
parties bringing this complaint. But I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of 
why their policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F, Mr B, Mr W 
and Mrs W, trading as N, to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman