DRN-4081765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Elderbridge Limited didnt remove its charge over their property 
after they repaid their second charge mortgage in 2019. As a result, this caused delay when 
they came to take a new first charge mortgage in 2022  and the delay meant they had to 
pay a higher interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a second charge mortgage with Elderbridge, which they repaid in 2019. 
They took out a new mortgage with another lender to repay. In 2022, at the end of a fixed 
rate, they decided to move their mortgage to another lender. 
When it came to the conveyancing, it was discovered that Elderbridge still had a charge over 
their property. This delayed the implementation of their new mortgage, and meant the 
interest rate they could get from their new lender was higher. 
Mr and Mrs S said that their new lender initially offered them a mortgage with a monthly 
payment of £1,389. Because of the delay that offer expired, and instead they ended up with 
a mortgage with a monthly payment of £1,464. They said this means they will pay around 
£7,000 more over the eight years remaining on their mortgage. And they said theyd had to 
pay an additional payment to their previous lender because the re-mortgage didnt complete 
in time.
Mr and Mrs S provided an email from the mortgage adviser theyd dealt with, which 
confirmed that their new mortgage completed on 5 August 2022, which was one week later 
than planned, because of the delay caused by Elderbridges charge. 
Elderbridge accepted it hadnt removed the charge when it should have done. It offered 
Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation, plus a refund of the £300 exit fee theyd paid in 2019. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with that, and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. He didnt think Mr and Mrs S would have got a 
better rate than they did even if Elderbridge had removed the charge in 2019, so he didnt 
ask it to refund any interest Mr and Mrs S had paid. Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman 
to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Elderbridge was at fault here. It should have removed the charge in 
2019. But it didnt, and that didnt come to light until Mr and Mrs S came to re-mortgage in 
2022. So what I need to decide is what the impact of that was, and whether Elderbridge 
needs to do more to put matters right.
Mr and Mrs S went to their new lender via a broker. In these situations, a mortgage 
illustration  setting out what might be available  is issued by the broker. If the borrower 
accepts that, a formal application is submitted to the lender which then (if its willing to lend) 
issues an offer.
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ss broker gave them a mortgage illustration showing a rate of 
5.89% and a monthly payment of £1,389. Mr and Mrs S told us this was a binding offer from 
the lender, but it wasnt  it was an illustration produced by the broker. The illustration said it 
expired on 7 June 2022. 
The broker emailed Mr and Mrs S on 13 June asking them if they wanted to proceed, and 
they said they did. But by then the illustration had already expired. We asked the lender what 
the effect of this was, and the lender said it had increased its rates before 13 June and the 
rate of 5.89% was no longer available.
That means that  regardless of any failing on Elderbridges part  Mr and Mrs S were never 
going to get a mortgage at 5.89% with a monthly payment of £1,389. By the time they told 
the broker to go ahead with an application, before the problem with the charge had come to 
light, that rate had already been withdrawn by the lender.
It's not clear exactly when Mr and Mrs S became aware of the problem with the charge. But 
they first contacted Elderbridge about it on 7 July 2022. I think its likely Mr and Mrs S would 
have contacted Elderbridge as soon as they became aware of the problem.
Elderbridge wrote to the broker on 11 July 2022 confirming its loan had been repaid and the 
charge was being removed, so that the broker could confirm this to the lender and proceed 
with the application.
Mr and Mrs Ss application then progressed, and the lender issued an offer on 26 July 2022, 
at a rate of 6.24% and with a monthly payment of £1,464. This is the offer Mr and Mrs S 
proceeded with. 
Their new mortgage completed on 5 August 2022, around ten days after the offer was 
issued. 
In an email to them, which Mr and Mrs S passed to Elderbridge, their broker said that the 
application could not be submitted to the new lender without confirmation that Elderbridge 
would undertake to remove the charge, and that this:
 delayed the application by at least one week, while we waited for the confirmation 
from Elderbridge.
Elderbridge should have removed their charge in 2019 as they had promised  
however, because they hadnt the delay meant that we completed on 5th August, 
rather than a week earlier, meaning that you had to make an additional payment on 
your mortgages you had.
The broker therefore confirms that the problem with the charge only delayed Mr and Mrs Ss 
application by around one week. This was the period between the existence of the charge 
being discovered  on or just before 7 July  and Elderbridges letter of 11 July. But for 
Elderbridges error the new mortgage would have completed at the end of July rather than 
on 5 August.
I dont think Elderbridge needs to refund the extra payment to Mr and Mrs Ss previous 
lender. That payment was less than the payment to the new lender, which they would have 
made instead had their new mortgage completed sooner. So Mr and Mrs S havent suffered any loss as a result of that.
And I dont think Elderbridge is responsible for the rate theyve got to pay on their new 
mortgage either. The rate of 5.89% was never available to them, regardless of anything 
Elderbridge may or may not have done. The reality is that Elderbridges error only delayed 
the new lenders offer by a few days. If the charge had been removed in 2019 as it should 
have been, the lenders offer would have been issued around 20 July and they would have 
completed around the end of July. I dont think such a short delay had any impact on the 
interest rate they were able to obtain. They would always have ended up with the mortgage 
they did, whether or not the charge had been removed in 2019.
Im not therefore persuaded that Elderbridges error in not removing the charge in 2019 has 
caused Mr and Mrs S any financial loss. However, it clearly didnt do what it was supposed 
to, so its fair it has agreed to refund the £300 exit fee. And discovering the problem caused 
Mr and Mrs S some distress and upset between 7 July and 11 July 2022  I think its offered 
fair compensation for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Elderbridge Limited has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman