DRN-4061598
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group referred him to an 
accident management company when he called to make a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Reference to Adrian Flux includes its agents.
What happened
Mr T held a motor insurance policy with Adrian Flux, a broker, underwritten by an insurer  
who Ill call U.
When he was involved in an accident, he called Adrian Flux to make a claim. Due to the 
circumstances of the accident, Mr T appeared to not be at fault for it, so, he was referred to 
an accident management company (AMC) to deal with his claim.
The AMC offered to arrange for Mr Ts car to be repaired and provide a hire car throughout 
those repairs. The hire and repair were to be provided as part of a credit hire agreement, 
with the intention of claiming the costs back from the insurer of other driver involved in the 
accident (the TPI). 
Mr T isnt happy with the repairs carried out under the credit hire and repair agreement. He 
thinks Adrian Flux are responsible for this because, he says, it didnt give him enough 
information to make an informed choice about deciding to use the AMC as opposed to using 
his own insurer U. 
Mr T complains about that referral and thinks Adrian Flux should take ownership of the 
outstanding issues with the repairs to his vehicle. He also complains about the service 
provided by Adrian Flux while the repairs were being carried out. And hes said there were 
other issues with the AMC relating to the hire car he was provided and the documentation 
not matching the car he was given.
Mr T also complains about the success fee charged by the solicitor dealing with the personal 
injury aspect of his claim against the TPI  which he also feels is Adrian Fluxs fault.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. She 
thought Adrian Fluxs referral could have been better. And she thought that if it were, Mr T 
would have chosen to claim through U. But she thought Mr T would have elected to use his 
own repairer, and so felt that any issues with the repair wouldnt be Us responsibility  so in 
essence she thought hed be in the same position he finds himself in now  with no one 
taking responsibility for the repairs.
Our investigator though Adrian Flux acted reasonably when referring Mr Ts requests for 
updates to the AMC or referring him back to the AMC because they were the ones repairing 
his car. And she thought ultimately Mr T chose to use his own solicitor, so didnt think Adrian 
Flux was responsible for any fees it wanted to charge.
Our investigator thought it would be distressing and inconvenient to find out that we couldnt 
consider a complaint about the AMC. And she didnt think Adrian Flux did enough to make 
this clear in its referral. So, she thought Adrian Flux should pay Mr T £150 compensation to 
account for this distress and inconvenience.
Adrian Flux agreed. But Mr T didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt 
agree that he would have used his own repairer had he claimed through U. So, he feels 
Adrian Flux should take ownership of the outstanding repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also upholding Mr Ts complaint, in part. Ill explain why and how below.
To begin, Im not looking into the actions of the AMC. Its not something I, nor this service is 
able to look at. Indeed, the fact that were unable to look at the AMCs actions in this claim 
forms part of Mr Ts complaint with Adrian Flux. 
Adrian Flux referred Mr T to the AMC based on what he told them about the accident he was 
involved in. Claiming via an AMC often has benefits and referring a consumer to an AMC is 
something Adrian Flux is entitled to do. But it should only do so where necessary. And 
importantly it needs to give enough information in a balanced way to allow Mr T to make an 
informed choice.
Ive listened to the referral call. Adrian Flux does Mr T that by using the AMC he wont be 
claiming on his own insurance. It also says the hire and repair will be done under a credit 
agreement. But importantly, Adrian Flux doesnt explain what this will mean in respect of 
Mr T bringing a complaint to us if he was unhappy with the AMC.
So, Ive considered what Mr T would have done had this been made clear to him.
Our investigator thought Mr T made it clear hed rather not claim through his own insurance 
and pay the excess  even though it was explained to him that hed likely be able to get the 
excess back. But she thought that decision would have been different had Adrian Flux 
explained the potential risks of using the AMC more. She thought this because Mr Ts policy 
included provision of a courtesy car, and he had legal expenses insurance to help claim any 
uninsured losses, including his excess back.
Im less persuaded than our investigator. With the benefit of hindsight, its easy to say Mr T 
would have done something different  because he now has a problem with the repairs and 
the AMC. But when making the claim at the time, Im not as persuaded that hed have been 
thinking about anything going wrong.
That said, I cant be 100% sure what Mr T would have done, no one can really, not even 
Mr T himself. And Adrian Flux did need to give him more information than it did. So, Mr T 
didnt want to claim through his own insurance and was unlikely thinking about anything 
going wrong with the claim at the point he was referred. But do I think he would have opted 
for the more secure option of claiming through his insurer U?
And after much deliberation, I think he would have. And this is because taking into account 
what Mr T has told us throughout this complaint, the balance of the benefits of using the 
AMC would have been tipped with the information Adrian Flux should have told him in 
relation to the AMC not carrying out an activity we could look into, and what that might mean if Mr T was unhappy and wanted to complaint.
So, Im satisfied the referral wasnt as good as it needed to be. And Im satisfied if it were, 
Mr T would have made a different decision. I now need to consider the impact of that 
decision.
The vast majority of the impact arises because Mr T isnt happy with the repairs. But the 
repairs werent carried out by the AMCs choice of repairer, they were carried out by Mr Ts 
chosen repairer. If Mr T were to claim through his policy with U, it too would have a network 
of approved repairers. If its repairer carried out the repairs, U would be responsible for them. 
But if Mr T elected to use his own repairer, even though he was claiming through U, U 
wouldnt have been responsible for those repairs.
So, essentially, I need to decide whether or not Mr T would have used one of Us repairers, 
or still chosen to use his own had he claimed on his insurance policy. Mr T says he would 
have used Us network. But Im not persuaded he would have. Again, I appreciate Ill never 
know for certain, but Im not persuaded Mr Ts reasons for wanting to use his own repairer 
wouldnt have been in place had he claimed through his own policy with U.
So, I dont think Mr T would be in a different position to what he finds himself in now  other 
than wed be able to look into a complaint about Us actions, whereas we cant look into the 
AMCs. I think, on balance, its more likely than not that Mr T would have elected to use the 
same repairer regardless of whether the AMC or U were dealing with his claim. And because 
the repairer was his choice, U wouldnt have been responsible for any repairs carried out by 
it  it would simply have been responsible for paying for the initial repairs to fix the damage 
caused in the accident.
So, it follows that I dont find Adrian Flux responsible for the issues Mr T has with the repairs 
to his vehicle. And because neither Adrian Flux, nor U were dealing with Mr Ts claim, I think 
it was reasonable for Adrian Flux to refer him to the AMC  who were dealing with the claim 
 when he had issue with it.
I also dont find Adrian Flux responsible for the issue relating to documentation and the hire 
car he was provided by the AMC. The AMC is acting in its own right, and I dont think this is 
a common issue or anything Adrian Flux could have reasonably foreseen. I dont find it 
stems from Adrian Fluxs referral to the AMC.
Nor do I find Adrian Flux responsible for the solicitors fee. Ultimately Mr T chose to use his 
own solicitor, and that solicitor has a responsibility to check if he has legal expenses 
insurance. Whether his chosen solicitors did this or not isnt Adrian Fluxs responsibility.
That said, Mr T wasnt given all the information he needed to make an informed decision. 
Had he been, hed have likely been able to bring any complaint here. To find that you dont 
have that avenue for assistance, right when you need it, would be distressing. So, for that, 
Adrian Flux should compensate Mr T £100.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group to:
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman