DRN-3929376
The complaint
Miss E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) delayed in providing her 
with an appointment with a mortgage adviser. She says this meant she ultimately secured a 
mortgage with a higher interest rate than she would have without these delays.
What happened
Miss E had an existing mortgage with NatWest  this had a fixed interest rate period until 
April 2023 and an applicable early repayment charge (ERC) if Miss E redeemed her 
mortgage before then.
In May 2022, Miss E obtained a mortgage illustration as she wanted to take out some further 
lending and move property. To do this, Miss E planned to redeem her existing mortgage 
early and take out a new fixed interest rate product.
The first appointment with a mortgage adviser that NatWest offered Miss E was on 14 June 
2022  during this appointment an affordability assessment was undertaken. Miss E was 
informed shed need another appointment to obtain advice on the available products and 
what would be most cost effective. This appointment was due to be on 20 June 2022, but 
ahead of this Miss E confirmed she didnt want to proceed. Miss E re-mortgaged with a 
different lender.
Miss E complained to NatWest about the delays in providing her with an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser. She says that when she obtained a mortgage illustration there was an 
interest rate of 2.55% available and that this had increased by the time she had an 
appointment. Miss E says if shed known that the rates could change after shed obtained an 
illustration then she would have re-mortgaged sooner. Shed like NatWest to waive the ERC 
it applied when she redeemed her mortgage early to recognise the increased cost to her of 
obtaining a higher interest rate on her new mortgage than she would have had if NatWest 
had been quicker or clearer.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint  in summary it said that interest rates are subject to 
change and no particular interest rate is guaranteed until a mortgage offer is made. NatWest 
said it followed the correct process and it was a particularly busy time with high demand for 
appointments. It said Miss E could have re-mortgage elsewhere sooner if she had chosen to 
do so and so it didnt agree to waive the relevant ERC.
When Miss E complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Briefly, 
they said it was Miss Es choice to wait for an appointment with NatWest and that the 
interest rate quoted in the illustration wasnt guaranteed. So they didnt think NatWest was 
required to waive the ERC.
Miss E didnt agree, she said she was told the interest rate could only be locked in after she 
had an appointment and she didnt know that the interest rate quoted in the illustration could 
change before the appointment. Miss E says NatWest should have been more transparent 
about this.
NatWest added that it believes its clear from Miss Es calls with it that she wanted advice on 
what to do next, so she would have needed to wait for an appointment with an adviser. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Its normal industry practice that an agreement in principle and any mortgage 
illustration provided ahead of a mortgage application wouldnt guarantee the interest 
rate quoted or that a mortgage will be approved. Only once a mortgage application 
has been considered and a mortgage offer is made can a customer (or potential 
customer) rely on the terms of that offer  which would still be subject to the offer 
being accepted in line with the terms of that offer.
The mortgage illustration that Miss E has provided dated 16 May 2022 says that it is 
only valid until 16 May 2022 (i.e. for the day), and that the information may change 
with market conditions. Its also explains that it doesnt constitute an obligation for 
NatWest to provide the loan. So, I think its clear that the interest rate quoted isnt 
guaranteed after that day.
I understand that Miss E thinks NatWest ought to have specifically highlighted this to 
her when she booked her mortgage advice appointment, but I dont think it would be 
fair to hold NatWest responsible for Miss Es assumption that the rate would be 
secured until the appointment. 
The interest rates offered by lenders vary over time, and it isnt in dispute that 
mortgage rates were generally rising around the relevant time. But NatWest staff 
wouldnt have known what rates it would be offering in the future.
Miss E wanted to re-mortgage and increase her borrowing, whilst redeeming her 
existing mortgage early. Miss E would have been able to look for and pursue a 
mortgage with other lenders at any time, as she went on to do. It was her choice to 
wait for an appointment with NatWest during which a mortgage adviser could have 
confirmed the most cost-effective way to achieve this.
I appreciate a lot of people would think four weeks is a long time to wait for an 
appointment, but NatWest isnt required to provide these within a specified time 
period. And I havent seen anything to suggest NatWest actively told Miss E that it 
would hold a specific interest rate for her until the appointment.
For these reasons, I dont think NatWest has made an error in the circumstances. This 
means I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible for Miss E ultimately securing a 
higher interest rate than she might have achieved if she applied for a mortgage sooner.
I understand Miss E would like NatWest to waive the ERC that it applied to her account as a 
way of putting matters right and recognising the impact she thinks NatWests delays had on 
her. But Miss E did choose to redeem her mortgage early and within the fixed interest rate 
period. She was aware of the applicable ERC and made a choice to do so in light of rising 
interest rates and her personal circumstances. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to require NatWest to waive a correctly applied ERC in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman