DRN-2919771
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) rejection of her 
motor insurance claim.
What happened
Miss H was involved in a motor incident in September 2019. She initially used the services of 
an accident management company, but when that was unsuccessful, she reverted to 
claiming on her motor insurance policy with LV. But they found several discrepancies and 
had concerns that it might not be genuine, and so rejected the claim
Miss H says she was driving her car with her husband in the passenger seat and two 
cousins in the back. During the journey a car pulled out from a junction in front of her and a 
collision occurred, causing damage to both cars and injuries to the passengers. Miss Hs car 
was considered a total loss.
LV inspected Miss Hs car and when doing so found that some wiring to the on-board 
diagnostics had been cut. This meant that the electronic control unit couldnt be read and 
that details of the incident couldnt be verified. LV also felt this might have been done to hide 
pre-existing faults with the car which wouldnt otherwise be covered by the policy.
Miss H said she didnt know anything about the wires being cut and that that could have 
been done before she bought the car. She also said a prior service had noted that the car 
couldnt be read, but in her view  because she believed the car was fine  no further 
investigation was required at that point.
When looking into the circumstances of the incident, LV also noted that there were 
discrepancies between the statements made by Miss H (including her husband) and the 
third-party driver. For example, the third-party driver said he had a female friend in the front 
passenger seat of his car at the time and a male friend sat behind him. Yet Miss Hs 
husband had said they were the other way around.
LV also noted that Miss Hs husband said he had called a recovery firm hed found online to 
collect his car from the scene. But this could not be verified, even though LV asked Miss H 
for details such as the number they called.
LV also questioned the route that Miss H and her husband said they were taking to drop off 
their passengers. They said it wasnt a direct route and therefore that too seemed unusual to 
them. But Miss H said it was the route they usually took and that in part is due to a building 
used in well-known films being on it.
LV also had the damage to the two cars looked at by an engineer, to see whether the 
incident happened as the third party was pulling out of a side road. But based on the 
damage sustained, the engineer said the third-party car would have been stationary on 
impact.
Miss H wasnt happy with that so brought the matter to our service. An investigator here 
looked into the case and agreed that LV had sufficient grounds for concern in relation to the 
claim and so were justified in rejecting it.
Miss H didnt agree, she said all of the concerns can be explained and/or were 
circumstantial. Because agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in a case such as this is to consider whether LV had sufficient grounds to act as they 
did. I think they did and will explain why.
While I appreciate Miss H has said some of the reasons given by LV can be explained I think 
there are still enough grounds for them not to pay the claim. With regard to the wires having 
been cut, the engineer says it had been done recently and therefore is unlikely to have been 
done before Miss H bought the car approximately two years prior. I also think it would be 
unusual for a dealer to sell a  not inexpensive  car, under warranty, without running 
diagnostics checks. So, it seems likely to me that this would have been possible previously.
Being able to read a vehicle is important to insurers as it helps them both verify accident 
circumstances, and to check whether a car has pre-existing damage. And while there are 
other ways for that to be done it can be more difficult. 
One of those other ways is inspecting the damage forensically to see whether its consistent 
with the manner in which the incident is described. And through taking statements from the 
parties involved.
But when LV did this it raised further concerns. An engineer has explained that the damage 
is consistent with the third-party car being stationary, not with it being driven forwards at the 
point of impact. Therefore, it doesnt match the description provided, and that puts a further 
question-mark over the claim.
And while the discrepancy noted in the statements could possibly be put down to a lapse in 
memory, it certainly doesnt help to alleviate LVs other concerns.
Furthermore, LV has been unable to verify Miss Hs husbands explanation that he called a 
recovery company shortly after the incident, despite Miss H providing contact details for it. 
Nor has Miss H been able to provide such verification through their phone records. I dont 
think its unreasonable for an insurer to expect a consumer to be able to support their claim 
in this way.
Overall, LV have identified a number of discrepancies in relation to Miss Hs claim. In view of 
this I dont think its unfair for them to have rejected it.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 Will Weston
Ombudsman