DRN-3350559
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc:
1. didnt give her a suitable mortgage in 2012; and
2. hasnt been pro-active in helping Ms B to get a more competitive interest rate product
            on her mortgage with it until 2019.
What happened
In 2012 Ms B took out an Offset mortgage with Barclays. Ms B had previously had an Offset 
mortgage with Standard Life (SL). In March 2012 Barclays wrote to Ms B. Barclays said that 
following its acquisition of SL, Ms Bs mortgage would be moved over to Barclays in mid- 
2012.
Ms B borrowed around £300,000 from Barclays on an interest only basis to be repaid in 10 
years. The mortgage was taken out on a lifetime tracker rate of Barclays Bank base rate plus 
4.49%.
Ms B has complained that Barclays didnt do enough in 2012 to explain alternative options to 
an offset mortgage when it was given to her. And Ms B says Barclays should have told her 
about other more competitively priced interest rate products that have been available since 
the sale. Ms B feels this was deliberately deceitful of Barclays and because of Barclays 
actions, shes paid more interest on this mortgage until 2019, when she took out a new 
interest rate product.
Ms B complained to Barclays in 2019. Barclays issued a final response to the complaint on 8 
November 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt given advice to Ms B in 2012 
about what mortgage was most suitable for her. Instead it had given Ms B information about 
its products and she had chosen to apply for the mortgage having made her own selection 
from its mortgage range. Barclays said Ms B had a lifetime product, rather than a product 
with a set expiry date. And that this, coupled with the fact Ms B hadnt asked to discuss the 
interest rate on her mortgage, meant Barclays wouldnt have contacted her about new 
interest rate products since taking out the loan.
Ms B was dissatisfied with Barclays response and brought her complaint to us. 
Barclays didnt give its consent for us to look into this complaint saying it had been brought 
out of time. Our investigator thought that we could look at part of Ms Bs complaint. I issued 
a jurisdiction decision that set out why we couldnt look at Ms Bs complaint about the sale of 
the mortgage. But saying we could look at the second issue concerning the interest rate from 
2013 to 2019. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2022 which set out why I didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld.
In the provisional decision I said:
Ive thought about the specific circumstances of this complaint, and whether I think Barclays
acted unfairly or unreasonably in its treatment of Ms B. Having done so, my provisional
decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that the mortgage offer that Ms B entered into in 2012 made it reasonably clear
that the mortgage was offered on an offset tracker rate referred to as:
SLB Offset Base +4.49% (47S): A Variable Rate which is 4.49% above Barclays Bank Base
Rate, currently 0.5%, for the whole of the term, to give a current rate payable of 4.99%.
It seems from all the evidence provided that the intention of this tracker rate was to match, or
at least make sure Ms B wouldnt pay any more interest, than the interest rate product shed
previously had on her SL mortgage. Barclays said in a letter sent before the mortgage was
moved to it that Ms B wouldnt be expected to pay any more interest due to this change.
I consider that Barclays mortgage offer made the variable interest rate arrangement which
covered the offset mortgage clear. And Ms B accepted these terms when she accepted the
mortgage offer.
Ive also looked at the monthly mortgage statements and annual mortgage statements. Im
satisfied that these documents clearly set out the amount of interest that was being applied
to Ms Bs mortgage. However, Im conscious that Ms B hasnt said that she was unaware
what interest rate applied to her mortgage. Rather, she feels Barclays should have done
more to tell her about other interest rate and mortgage products it could have made available
to her, which were more competitively priced and could have saved her money each month
on her interest payments.
Barclays has said that it wouldnt have contacted Ms B about taking out a new product as
she was already on one. And that is technically correct. Ms B was on a tracker rate for the
whole of the term.
However, there was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) on the mortgage. And in 2019 Ms B
was able to enter into another product on her offset mortgage without apparently changing
any of the other features of the mortgage. That does beg the question, could this have
happened before, and did Barclays do enough to tell Ms B about this?
Barclays has sent us a copy of a revised payment notice sent in 2016, which told Ms B that
her monthly payments were to fall to 4.74%, following a decrease in base rate to 0.25%.
That revised payment notice says:
If your mortgage is now on a variable rate with no Early Repayment Charge(s) to pay, and
this meets your needs, you dont need to do anything- well arrange everything for you.
Alternatively, there may be other types of mortgages and rates, with a range of repayment
terms, that better suit your needs.
That letter gave the relevant page of Barclays website for Ms B to explore other interest rate
products, and it gave a phone number to call and make an appointment with a mortgage
specialist.
Ive also looked at the revised payment notice sent by Barclays to Ms B on 12 November
2017 when base rate increased by 0.25%. That letter invited Ms B to call Barclays or visit a
page on its website to get more information, saying:All the best mortgage rates are available to our existing customers
As an existing mortgage customer, youll continue to have full access to our most
competitive rates. If youre looking to borrow more, move home or simply review your current
rate, we may be able to help you.
It may be that Ms B didnt realise that this invitation to review interest rate products was
something that may have applied to her. But, Im satisfied in the circumstances of this case
that Barclays acted fairly in letting Ms B know that there may be other interest rate deals or
types of mortgage that may have suited her needs better and inviting her to explore this.
Ms B did ask Barclays about new products in 2019. This was once her partner told her she
might be able to get better value for money by taking out another product. However, from the
information currently available to me, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Barclays
responsible for her not doing this before. And as such I dont think it would be fair to ask
Barclays to refund interest applied on this mortgage from 2013 to 2019 in line with the terms
Ms B had accepted in 2012.
Ms B has also asked why Barclays didnt tell her in 2013 or 2018 about lower interest rates.
On these occasions Ms B had called Barclays to talk about aspects of her mortgage.
Barclays says it doesnt have details anymore of what was discussed in 2013 but Ms B
remembers the discussion was about a payment holiday. And in 2018 there are records of a
call where Ms B wanted to discuss a change of address.
I can see why the subject of a new interest rate product didnt come up in either of these
calls about relatively minor administrative changes to the mortgage. I dont think theres
evidence to suggest that Barclays withheld this information deliberately or failed in a duty to
Ms B by not mentioning other interest rates products during these two calls which had clearly
different purposes.
Overall, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Barclays has acted
unfairly. Barclays had let Ms B how she could explore her options within its mortgage
product range if she had wanted to from 2016. If Ms B had felt this mortgage no longer 
offered her value for money, she was able to ask for other interest rate deals - either from 
Barclays or from a mortgage broker.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional findings. Ms B replied to say she strongly disagreed with 
my provisional findings. Ms B said, in summary:
-  if shed been aware she could have changed her mortgage, Ms B would have done 
so. This would have saved her a lot of money;
- when Ms B asked for a payment holiday, Barclays should have questioned whether 
there was a better alternative mortgage product at that time;
- Barclays told her the mortgage was for life. She took it that it was set in stone until 
the end of its term.
- Ms B says the system is not acceptable, to have allowed for this situation to have 
happened.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my provisional findings are unchanged. I can see why Ms B is so 
disappointed that she didnt enquire about another interest rate product sooner. Im 
conscious how much this would have saved Ms B in interest payments over the years. 
However, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Barclays has 
acted unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint. It applied interest in line with the 
mortgages terms and conditions. And it explained to Ms B that she could get in touch if she 
wanted to find out about other interest rate deals. When Ms B did this in 2019, she was 
offered a new product. I see no reason to believe this wouldnt have been the case if she 
had asked for this before.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman