DRN-3672000
The complaint
Miss B is bringing this complaint both on her own behalf and on behalf of her late mothers 
estate with the consent of the joint executor, Mr S. For simplicity, I will refer to Miss B 
throughout.
Miss B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society declined her request for a borrowback 
facility on her mortgage. Miss B also says that Nationwide gave her confusing and conflicting 
information and that its customer service was poor. Miss B would like Nationwide to resolve 
the matter so she can arrange for further borrowing.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 12 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss B or Mr S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Miss B and her late mother (who I will refer to as Ms B) jointly owned a property purchased 
in 1994 which, in 2002, was mortgaged in their joint names to Nationwide. The property was 
held by them as tenants in common, in equal shares. This is reflected in a restriction on the 
title at the Land Registry dated 16 December 1994. In her Will Ms B left her share in the 
property to her son, Miss Bs brother, Mr S.
I am sorry to note that Ms B passed away in 2017.  Under her Will, Miss B and Mr S are the 
joint Executors of Ms Bs estate, and Probate was granted in November 2020. In accordance 
with the Will, Mr S inherited Ms Bs interest in the property. The legal title passed to Miss B, 
who holds the equitable title on trust for herself and Mr S, subject to the restriction at the 
Land Registry. The mortgage account is now in the joint names of Miss B and the Personal 
Representatives of the Estate of the Late Ms B.
Following Ms Bs death, Miss B informed Nationwide and provided a copy of the death 
certificate. Miss B was expecting to hear from Nationwide about this, but didnt. This is 
because the copy of the death certificate had been mislaid. 
Miss B wanted the mortgage transferred into her sole name, and to borrow additional funds 
by way of the borrowback facility on the mortgage account. This is a discretionary facility 
where borrowers can re-borrow part of the capital theyve paid off the mortgage, thus 
increasing the mortgage balance.
Miss B was given conflicting information about what needed to happen in relation to the 
mortgage account. She was told a borrowback couldnt happen because the property was 
held as tenants in common. Miss B was also told that all shed need to do to put this right 
was for there to be a transfer of equity This wasnt correct. 
Miss B complained about the lack of help and support from Nationwide and about poor 
customer service. Nationwide acknowledged that Miss B had been told  incorrectly  that all 
she needed to do was arrange for a transfer of equity. Nationwide also accepted that its 
Bereavement Team hadnt contacted Miss B in 2017, and that the death certificate had been 
mislaid. For its poor customer service, Nationwide paid Miss B £200 compensation.
However, Nationwide said that the issues around the property title needed to be dealt with at 
the Land Registry, and that Nationwide wasnt responsible for giving legal advice about this.
Miss B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked 
at what had happened. She didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong in relation to 
the restriction on the property title. The investigator said that this was something Miss B and 
her brother would need to resolve through solicitors. She was satisfied that the £200 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I would like to express my condolences to Miss B and Mr S on the loss of their 
mother. I have no doubt that this has been a stressful time for Miss B. However, having 
looked at what has happened, I am unable to uphold the complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing news for Miss B, but these are my reasons.
Ive looked at the Land Registry entries for the property. These contain a restriction which 
says:  No disposition by a sole proprietor of the land (not being a trust corporation) under 
which capital money arises is to be registered except under an order of the registrar or of the 
Court..
The effect of this restriction is that Miss B, as the last survivor of the joint owners must 
appoint another person to act with her on any sale or mortgage and to jointly receive any 
sale price or mortgage advance.
A tenancy in common would end when either Miss B was to sell the property to someone 
else (with the consent of Mr S), or if she and Mr S were to convert the tenancy in common to 
a beneficial joint tenancy, or if one owner acquires all the shares in the property from the 
other (e.g. Miss B buys out Mr S, or vice versa).
A tenancy in common does not automatically end when all the original owners have died. It 
will continue unless one person has become the owner of the entire equitable interest in the 
property, or the property is sold.
Miss B has also explained that Mr Ss wife had listed the property in her divorce, claiming a 
vested interest in it. This, technically, is correct, because if Mr S owns 50% of the beneficial 
interest in the property, then his wife (or ex-wife) has a potential claim over that interest. 
Because of this restriction on the title, Nationwide wasnt able to agree to any further 
borrowing by Miss B. Im satisfied that this was reasonable, given that Mr S has an interest in the property (and potentially his ex-wife does too), and that the Land Registry restriction 
prohibits borrowing by Miss B alone.
Im not persuaded that Nationwide should have given Miss B advice about how to resolve 
this issue; the title to the property and the way the equitable interests are held are legal 
issues, and Nationwides staff arent qualified  or required  to provide legal advice to 
customers. To resolve this matter, Miss B and Mr S will need to consult solicitors.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong in relation to its 
decision to decline the borrowback facility. 
I note Nationwide told Miss B  incorrectly  that all she would need to do was to apply for a 
transfer of equity. I can understand why she was told this, because the technicalities of the 
way in which the property is held are likely to be outside the expertise of staff who dont have 
legal training. Nationwide also accepted that it had mislaid the death certificate in 2017. 
But even if these issues hadnt arisen, it wouldnt have changed the fact that Nationwide 
wasnt able to allow Miss B to borrow additional funds, or wasnt able to give her legal advice 
about how to overcome the issues with the property title and Land Registry restriction.
Given this, in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the £200 compensation paid by 
Nationwide is fair and reasonable, and Im not ordering Nationwide to do anything further.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for. I think it might assist Miss B and Mr S to 
take some legal advice from a solicitor who deals with estates and property. They can find 
details of solicitors who specialise in this area of the law on the Law Societys website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and the 
estate of Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman