DRN-2982300
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC when he visited branch.
What happened
Mr N made a visit to a Lloyds branch but found that the door was locked and that he had to 
ring the bell to gain entry. A member of staff opened the door but then prevented Mr N from 
entering by holding a hand out towards his face. The staff member then asked for Mr N's 
bank card and went in to speak with a colleague before allowing Mr N into the branch. Mr N 
wasn't happy about this, especially as he saw other Lloyds customers being allowed into the 
branch without question. So, he raised a complaint.
 
Lloyds looked at Mr N's complaint. It contacted the branch in question but the staff there had 
no recollection of the incident. However, Lloyds accepted Mr N's version of events and 
apologised to Mr N and offered to pay £50 compensation to Mr N for any upset the matter 
may have caused.
 
Mr N wasn't satisfied with Lloyds response and he felt that he'd been discriminated against 
by the staff member in question, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. They understood why Mr N felt discriminated against, 
but they didnt feel that they could impartially confirm that any form of discrimination had 
occurred. And while our investigator acknowledged that it appeared that Mr N had received a 
poor standard of service from Lloyds, they felt that Lloyds response to Mr N's complaint, 
including the offer of £50 compensation, did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. 
 
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mr N to have been treated by Lloyds 
staff in the manner that he has explained to this service. 
 
It must be noted that the events under consideration here took place at a time when Lloyds 
were implementing special policies as a result of the Covid-19 global pandemic to minimise 
social contact and to mitigate against potential viral transfer. 
 
It also must be noted that it isn't the role of this service to decide whether a business has 
acted unlawfully or not - that would be a matter for a court of law. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, our remit is to decide whether a business has responded to a customers 
complaint in a reasonable way such that a fair outcome has been reached. 
 
In their response to Mr N's complaint, Lloyds contacted the branch in question and sought its 
staff's recollection of events. Unfortunately, the branch staff couldn't recall the incident in 
question but explained that while there are staff members greeting customers on entry, it's 
never been the branchs policy to have a locked door at any time during branch opening 
hours. However, in their response to Mr N's complaint, Lloyds accepted the testimony of Mr 
N in that it accepted that he had been spoken to rudely by the staff member and it 
apologised to Mr N and made an offer of compensation to him of £50.
 
Lloyds actions here are what this service would expect in such circumstances, and while 
matters of compensation can be subjective - with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else - the £50 
compensation that Lloyds have offered already here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm 
that it's commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
 
I'm aware that Mr N feels that he was discriminated against by Lloyds staff member. I can 
appreciate why Mr N might feel this way, but given the impartiality of this service, it's very 
difficult for this service to confirm such an allegation without reasonable evidence to do so. 
And while I don't doubt Mr N's testimony with regard what took place or the discrimination he 
perceived, I don't feel that this alone is sufficient for me to conclude that actual discrimination 
took place, such that I can fairly or reasonably make an instruction against Lloyds in this 
regard.
 
I'm aware that Mr N feels that CCTV footage from the branch would corroborate his version 
of events. But Lloyds have confirmed that CCTV footage from that date is no longer 
available. While this is unfortunate, its also understandable, and this is because its common 
for businesses to only maintain CCTV footage for a relatively short period of time. It also 
must be noted that CCTV footage rarely includes audio recording and usually only consists 
of a series of still images rather than a continually moving picture. Because of this I'm not 
convinced that should CCTV footage exist that it would be sufficient to corroborate Mr N's 
testimony as he believes it would here.
 
All of which means that while I agree that the service that Mr N received when he visited 
Lloyds branch should have been better, I'm satisfied that the response that Lloyds have 
already issued to Mr N regarding his complaint, including the offer of £50 compensation, 
does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. As such, it follows that I 
won't be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time, 
beyond that to which theyve already agreed.
 
I realise that this won't be the outcome that Mr N was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given all that I've explained above, why I've made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman