DRN-3442627
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays in setting up a 
service resulting in inconvenience.
What happened
The director of T contacted Barclays on 9 February 2021 about applying for Barclays.net. 
This would allow T to make larger payments online without splitting them. And it wouldnt 
need to visit a branch for payments above its then daily online limits. It didnt receive access 
until 10 September 2021 despite repeated contact.
Barclays said that although the process isnt instant the timescale for T had been longer 
than it would expect due to bank error. It shouldnt have requested further information in 
June 2021 that T had already provided in February 2021. It paid T £200.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and T be paid a further £200 in 
compensation. T had provided all its emails about what happened. It had regularly followed 
this up. T wasnt informed how long this would take and didnt receive regular updates. T 
provided all the information requested straightaway - but due to errors there was a delay in 
processing the application. There was evidence it had to split payments on June 18, 21, 23 
and 24 and August 5, 12 and 31 in 2021. T is a limited company which couldnt suffer 
distress and so he couldnt consider the personal impact on the director.
Barclays said it was happy for this case to be ruled on by an ombudsman. T didnt agree that 
the compensation was sufficient and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. T was caused 
ongoing severe inconvenience. It said that it could provide further dates when it had to split 
payments and often stagger them over a number of days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the correspondence between T and Barclays about this product. T was 
organised, addressed questions asked of it in a clear and timely way and repeatedly chased 
for updates. Had it not done so this process could have taken longer.
I understand that Barclays had to undertake a significant number of risk and know your 
customer checks. It has told this service that access to the system is generally for its 
corporate customers given the size of potential payments involved. There were different 
teams involved which it accepts werent fully co-ordinated leading to some duplication. And I 
can see that when it got to the stage of onboarding the technical team gave an estimate of 
six to eight weeks more to T. Ive noted that there were waiting times for T to get an 
appointment to set up the system and for it to be explained.
Barclays has also explained that its teams were inundated. And that it would have expected 
that the system be set up about three months earlier. That still left a guided timescale of four 
months. And I dont see that Barclays ever told T that this was the likely overall period. Its 
final response didnt really recognise the impact for T and the extent of contact the director 
had about this over the period.
T was able to make payments as it had before. And the dates referred to by our investigator 
are the ones after four months since application had elapsed. I can see from the statements 
that this splitting happened in earlier months too. It wasnt ideal for T to have to split the 
payments, but neither was that as I understand it unmanageable. However, I realise that T 
was prepared to pay the product fee of £20 a month to access Barclay.net and so not to 
have to do this.
T has been caused inconvenience. I need to decide fair compensation overall for that. And 
we dont make punitive awards or tend to look at time spent. Ive taken into account our 
published guidance about compensation. And Ive applied my own judgement. Having done 
so I consider that the recommendation of our investigator  of a further £200 making a total 
of £400 -  is reasonable in all the circumstances. I understand that the director of T will still 
remain disappointed by this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay T a 
further £200 making a total of £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman