DRN-3513120
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a motorbike hes been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his motorbike under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the bike should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then 
BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the bike, are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for the bikes 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But as Mr K reported this current software 
fault to BMWFS about 17 months after he took receipt of the bike the law puts the onus on 
him to demonstrate the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
It's clear there is a fault with the bike as Ive seen comments from the dealership that theyve 
experienced the same starting issues Mr K says hes had. But Im not persuaded that Mr K 
has provided sufficient evidence that the fault the bike is experiencing was one that was 
developing when it was supplied to him.
I can see that the battery was replaced on the bike in March 2021 and Mr K has explained 
that the software was upgraded in May 2021 which fixed the problem for a few months. But 
Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest the problem was present when the bike 
was supplied to Mr K, such as a report from an independent expert.
It is for Mr K to demonstrate that the fault is one that BMWFS should take responsibility for 
and Im not persuaded hes been able to do that.
The relevant legislation says that when we think about whether goods are of satisfactory 
quality we should also think about whether theyve been durable. Ive thought about whether 
that could fairly be said to be the case with Mr Ks bike as it was almost new when supplied. 
But the evidence supplied of the fault, its frequency, and its origins is very limited, and Im 
not persuaded Mr K has provided enough information for me to fairly be able to reach that 
conclusion.
So, I dont think BMWFS need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman