DRN-4462588
The complaint
Miss R complains, via her financial adviser, that Santander UK Plc incorrectly recorded her 
address which meant she didnt receive any statements or other correspondence on her 
account for nine years. She says this caused her distress and a loss of interest.
What happened
Miss R said Santander input the wrong postcode when she changed her address after 2013 
and she hasnt received any account correspondence for almost 10 years. She said she had 
handwritten her address on a savings book for a predecessor bank for which the latest 
transaction was April 2013. She called Santander who could not find her account and she 
said the £390,000 balance from April 2013 had apparently disappeared into thin air. 
Miss R is elderly and in poor health, and said how upsetting it was to hear that Santander 
didnt hold any accounts in her name. She called Santander again and its agent recognised 
the type of account from the starting letter and found it. Miss R said she had to send in a 
letter from a government department, but was then told Santander needed a passport. 
Miss Rs financial adviser rang again, and this time Santanders agent updated her address 
and would send bank statements, but after two weeks they hadn't arrived and another call 
and another promise followed, but still no bank statements. Miss R complained in January 
2023, but after two more weeks there were still no bank statements, and she withdrew the 
funds from her account.  
Santander sent its final response to Miss Rs complaint and said that due to the incorrect 
address held it had been sending correspondence to the wrong address. Santander 
apologised to Miss R for the error and paid her £175 compensation. 
Miss R described Santanders response as an insult given its incompetence and inability to 
send bank statements. She described dealing with Santander as a nightmare and said she 
has been hugely upset. She said Santander paid her only 0.1% interest per annum over the 
last ten years, turning £390,000 into £393,065. She said if she had received regular 
statements she would have noticed this and moved to a higher interest paying account. Miss 
R estimated her loss at £11,000, which she said was caused by Santanders incompetence. 
Miss R referred her complaint to our service. She wants Santander to apologise properly and 
not make it almost impossible for someone of her age and skills to speak to someone. She 
said Santander should pay her for the distress caused and at least half the interest lost. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the passbook was last 
updated in 2013 and the account hadnt been used for many years and Santander couldnt 
say why it held an incorrect address. The investigator said Santander asked Miss R to visit a 
branch with photo ID to correct the address, which wasnt possible for her, but the change 
was made by phone in January 2023. She said Miss Rs financial adviser told Santander that 
she had been trying to trace the account for six months to a year before Santander found it. 
But Santander had no record of any calls or letters from Miss R before November 2022.
Regarding the interest rate, the investigator said all rate changes are publicised for savers, 
and she couldnt fairly say that Santanders failure to contact Miss R resulted in her not 
receiving a better interest rate. She appreciated the upset Miss R had suffered but thought 
Santander had acted fairly by acknowledging its error and paying £175 compensation. 
Miss R disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said Santander had told her it input the wrong postcode for her address on its system 
and provided an incorrect account number. She said the compensation wasnt fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at Santanders actions and handling of Miss Rs account to see if it 
acted within the terms and conditions and rules that apply. And to see if it has treated Miss R 
fairly in the circumstances of her complaint. 
From Miss Rs description of the events and that of her financial adviser it appears that she 
was unaware that the passbook related to a live account, holding substantial funds. The 
account was opened with Santanders predecessor bank in    and had no transactions 
recorded since 2013. It seems that Miss R had overlooked the existence of the account until 
alerted by her financial adviser. And this may explain why she didnt question the lack of 
bank statement from at least April 2013 onwards.
Ive reviewed the record of communications that took place between Miss R and Santander. 
From this Miss Rs greatest shock and upset came when she was first told that there was no 
trace of her or her account. She said this news affected her sleep and medical conditions 
and also emotionally, and she said this could have affected her much worse. I can 
understand that having rediscovered her account Miss R was distressed to hear that 
Santander held no record of it. 
Once the existence of the account was established, I can see that Miss R was put to a 
further degree of inconvenience in obtaining information and then access to her account 
funds. At least from this point she knew of the existence and safekeeping of her funds, but 
was wondering if she would be able to navigate Santanders systems to obtain payment. 
I can see from Santanders records that it has no knowledge from 2000 as to how the 
incorrect postcode was entered on to its system. In other words this could have been due to 
it having been provided wrongly by Miss R, or Santanders member of staff inputting it 
incorrectly. On a Change of Details form Miss R recorded her previous address the same 
as her current address, only with a different postcode. Notwithstanding this Santander has 
accepted responsibility for the error, which has avoided an argument with Miss R as to 
responsibility. 
When a business makes an error it is our role to see what is needed to put the consumer 
back to the position they would have occupied had the error not occurred. This means that 
losses foreseeable from the error should be reimbursed. Im afraid Miss Rs claimed loss of 
interest falls some way short of being a foreseeable loss.   
From the calls theres a problem in Ms R changing her address as she could not get to 
branch and had no photo ID. However, this was dealt with during a call in January 2023 
when her details were changed. Miss R said she had been trying to trace the account for six 
months to a year. However, Santander said it has no record of any calls or correspondence 
from Miss R or her financial adviser prior to November 2022. 
Miss Rs financial adviser said that when her account was updated to a Santander account, 
it added a zero to the account number, and keyed the wrong postcode and that was why 
Miss R hadnt received any statements. I think the postcode error was key to the non-receipt 
of statements and the changed account number made it more difficult for Santander to 
identify the account. Santander should have sent Miss R statements in response to her 
several requests, and it prolonged her upset by not doing so. Equally, the long and repeated 
calls by Miss R and her financial adviser caused them both frustration and inconvenience. Santander has paid her £175 compensation which is in line with what we would normally 
award for this level of inconvenience and seems fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Miss R would also like to be compensated for loss of interest on the account. There are 
limited records available from Santanders predecessor bank, but Santander has said that 
Miss R opened the account in 1992. Miss R has provided copies from her passbook, and 
over the following 20 years this shows regular incoming transactions for share dividends, 
cheques and interest, and some outgoing cheque payments. Santanders records show that 
preferred contact details were added to the account in December 2000. It appears to be at 
this point the incorrect postcode was added though the building and address for Miss R 
remained the same.
The account Miss R opened was an instant saver account which provided a minimal rate of 
interest to reflect the instant access facility. The interest rate varied, as set out within the 
terms and conditions for the account, and the rate was publicised by Santander. 
Unless Miss R made a mistake with the type of account she opened, she must have wanted 
the features that this instant access account provides. Its not for a bank to tell a customer 
what type of account they should open, it is the free choice of the customer. The account 
was Miss Rs choice, and her choice didnt change until she re-discovered the account via 
her financial adviser. I dont think this situation would have been different if Santander had 
entered the correct postcode in 2000 as I think Miss R could have taken action to avoid a 
loss of interest while she remained aware of the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman