DRN-3376290
The complaint
Mr I complains American Express Services Europe (AESEL) (Amex) didnt treat him fairly 
when he disputed payments hed made on his card for airline tickets.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my preliminary findings on it, were contained in a 
provisional decision I issued to both parties on 2 March 2022. I have reproduced extracts 
from that provisional decision within this final decision. I described the background to Mr Is 
complaint as follows:
Mr I used his Amex credit card to purchase return flight tickets from London to a city in 
another country on 14 June 2019. The flights were due to leave on 17 June 2019 and 
return on 2 July 2019. Mr I booked the tickets with an airline, A, through an online 
travel agent, O. Two payments were charged to his Amex card:
£603.72, featuring the airlines name but also including Os name.
£37.28, featuring Os name only.
Mr I says he realised luggage wasnt included within minutes of making the booking. He 
said this hadnt been clear on Os website. He rang O. What happened on the phone 
call is disputed. Mr I says it was agreed that the booking would be cancelled and, 
because he had paid extra for an anytime cancellation guarantee, he would receive a 
refund of his flights and only need to pay the amount hed paid for the guarantee.
Some days later Mr I received an email from A, referring to him having been a no-show 
for the outbound flight. He called to enquire about this and discovered his booking had 
not been cancelled. O denied that Mr I had cancelled the booking.
At about the same time, Mr I contacted Amex to dispute the amounts hed paid to O. 
Amex attempted a chargeback to obtain a refund from O for the flights, and provided a 
temporary refund of £603.72 to him. O defended the chargeback, providing evidence 
which it said showed Mr I didnt have valid grounds for a refund. After some further 
correspondence with Mr I, Amex decided he had not proved his claim against O. It 
removed the temporary refund,
but did this twice accidentally. Mr I complained about what had happened. Amex 
refused to change its position regarding the refund from O, maintaining that it had 
decided this correctly. It did however identify that it had accidentally removed the 
temporary refund twice and took steps to put this right. It added 5,000 loyalty points to 
Mr Is account to apologise for having done this.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr I stopped making payments towards the balance 
on his Amex account, which has now been defaulted and terminated for non-
payment. He also referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter, and she came to the 
following conclusions:
Amex had not been wrong to decide Mr I didnt have valid grounds for a refund 
under the chargeback process. This was because the evidence provided by O 
showed that Mr I hadnt cancelled the booking on his initial phone call.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), which was another 
potential means for Mr I to obtain a refund, did not apply in this case because 
the scenario didnt meet the technical criteria for a claim to be made.
Amex had made an error in debiting Mr Is account twice, but it had recognised 
this, apologised for it and provided 5,000 loyalty points as compensation. This 
was fair.
Mr I didnt agree. He made a number of points which I think it would be fair to 
summarise as follows:
The investigator had been wrong to conclude the technical criteria hadnt 
been met for a section 75 claim to be made.
It had been wrong to conclude the £37.28 was a booking fee. This had 
been the payment for the anytime cancellation guarantee.
The investigator had been wrong to accept Os account of what had happened 
on the phone call when he had asked to cancel. Os notes were not an accurate 
reflection of that call, there had been some communication difficulties on the 
phone with Os advisor and this could have resulted in his instructions being 
misunderstood.
I then went on to consider Mr Is complaint. I didnt think it should be upheld and that Amex 
had dealt with it fairly. Rather than try to summarise my provisional findings, I think it is worth 
reproducing them fully:
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit 
card company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general 
obligation for them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via 
which they can help. If a credit card has been used, as in this case, section 75 of the 
CCA gives a legal right to claim against the credit card issuer in respect of breaches of 
contract or misrepresentations, so long as certain technical criteria have been met. A 
credit card company can also attempt to obtain a refund via the dispute resolution 
procedures operated by the card network, typically referred to as chargeback. I will go 
through each mechanism in turn.
Section 75 of the CCA
As I mentioned above, certain technical criteria need to be met in order for section 75 
to
apply to a particular purchase. Our investigator concluded section 75 didnt apply to Mr 
Is dispute, as there was not a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in 
place. I dont think this was correct, but nevertheless my view is that Mr I didnt have a 
valid claim against Amex anyway. Ill explain why, but before I continue, I need to 
address one of the points in dispute, which is the purpose of the £37.28 payment to O. 
This is because it is relevant to Mr Is potential right to claim against Amex under 
section 75 of the CCA.I agree with Mr I that the £37.28 payment was for Os anytime cancellation guarantee. 
There is no plausible argument for it to have been for anything else. Mr Is booking 
confirmation stated the flights cost £603.72 and the cancellation guarantee was £37.00. 
Amex has pointed out the 28p discrepancy and suggested this means the £37.28 must 
have been for something else, such as booking fees. It is more likely in my view that the 
£37.28 was a payment for the cancellation guarantee. No other fees are outlined in the 
booking confirmation, which I would have expected to see if the payment was indeed 
for booking fees. What appears to have happened is that the total amount Mr I owed for 
his booking was rounded up to the nearest pound, although it is unclear why.
The purpose of the payment thus identified, it would be helpful now to 
describe the significance of the DCS agreement referred to by our 
investigator.
Although this is a somewhat simplified explanation, what having a valid DCS 
agreement in place generally means, is that the person making a claim needs to have 
used their credit card to pay the same company they have a claim against for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation.
In this case the payment for the cancellation guarantee was made to O. It is not entirely 
clear to whom the payment for the flights was made. Os booking conditions at the time 
said:
If you pay by credit card, payment for your flights may be taken directly by the airline.
The name of the airline appeared on Mr Is credit card statement, followed by Os name. 
When Amex charged back the transaction for the flights, it was O who responded to the 
chargeback, not A. This suggests it was O who received the payment. But the booking 
confirmation from O indicated £37.28 was to be taken by O, and £603.72 was to be 
taken by
A. As I said, it isnt entirely clear, but I think on balance the credit card payment for the 
flights was made to A, or O acting as a payment agent for A.
This means that there would be a valid DCS agreement in place for breaches of 
contract or misrepresentations by O or A. So, Ive gone on to consider what contracts 
were in place between Mr I and these companies.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, when Mr I made his booking through O, he entered 
into two contracts. One contract was with O for the cancellation guarantee and for 
making and managing his booking, and one was with A for the flights themselves.
I come here to an important point, which is that even though there is a valid DCS 
agreement in place, the cancellation guarantee and booking service are not covered by 
section 75. This is because the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement is not the 
only condition which needs to be met in order for a purchase to be covered by section 
75: section 75 only applies to claims in respect of items which have a cash price of 
more than £100, and no more than
£30,000.
The guarantee cost only £37.00 while the booking service appears to have been 
assigned no cash price at all. This means Mr I cannot bring a claim against Amex under 
section 75, for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations by O in relation to the 
cancellationguarantee, or the way it made or managed the booking. Unfortunately for Mr I, his 
dispute centres on what he has said is Os failure to cancel his booking in accordance 
with the terms of the guarantee, and provide accurate information about his baggage 
allowance. These complaints relate to elements of his purchase which fall outside of the 
range of cash prices covered by section 75.
Mr I hasnt said A did anything wrong, so Ive not explored whether or not it 
misrepresented something, or breached its contract with him, in detail. Ill say only that 
it appears to have honoured the seat reservation on the outbound flight, and cancelled 
Mr Is seat on the return flight as it believed he was a no-show. Its contract with Mr I 
allowed it to do this, but I note the contract also says Mr I could apply for a refund of the 
taxes, fees and charges in the event of his inbound ticket being cancelled in this way. 
Mr I may wish to apply for such a refund, if it is not too late for him to do so.
Summarising the above, I dont think Mr I had a valid claim against Amex under section 
75 of the CCA, because the services in respect of which he could have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation, had a cash price which falls outside of the limits 
covered by section 75.
Chargeback
A chargeback is not something a consumer can demand their card provider attempt as 
of right, but when a consumer requests assistance with a disputed card transaction I 
would expect the card provider to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if 
there was a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. I would also expect the card provider 
to administer the chargeback process in a competent way, without making errors.
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed. They can be challenged or defended by 
the merchant on the other side of the transaction. If the merchant puts up a valid 
defence to the chargeback then I would not generally expect a card provider to pursue 
the matter further.
Amex attempted a chargeback in this case and it was defended by O. Having 
carefully considered Amexs handling of the process, I think it got a couple of 
things wrong.
Firstly, as it accepts, when it decided it was not going to pursue the chargeback 
further following Os defence and its correspondence with Mr I, it accidentally 
removed the temporary refund from his account twice.
Secondly, Im not convinced Amex correctly explained to O the reason why Mr I was 
disputing the payments. It appears to have informed O that Mr I was disputing the 
payments for the reason goods and services not received, when it should have 
explained that the dispute was about Mr I not receiving a refund under the terms of Os 
guarantee after he had cancelled the booking. I dont think this made a material 
difference to the outcome of the chargeback however, as I think O would have 
defended it anyway and provided the same evidence to support its position.
Amex accepted Os defence. It didnt think Mr I had compelling evidence to show that he 
had valid grounds for a refund. Although I think it could have explained more clearly to 
Mr I how it had reached this conclusion, I dont think it was the wrong conclusion, for 
reasons Ill outline below.
Much of Mr Is case hinges on what happened on a phone call with O which took 
place shortly after he made his booking. Mr I says he asked to cancel his booking on this call, having learned that his fare did not include luggage and that he would need 
to pay significantly more money to add it. Mr I says O agreed that the booking would 
be cancelled
and hed receive a refund of £603.72 because he had paid for the anytime 
cancellation cover.
Os notes of the telephone conversation tell a slightly different story. A member of staff 
made a note at 1:31am on 14 June 2019 which said:
[Mr I] called to add the baggage but the airline was not authorising to add the baggage 
and then customer wanted to cancel the booking and wants a full refund but Only 
refund 603.04 gbp refund was available so the [passenger] was upset with us and 
wanted to talk to the manager so I transferred the call to supervisor.
The supervisor then left a note at 1:44am, which said:
Sup call taken:
[Passenger] contacted to cancel the booking for full refund, advised not possible, we 
can void the [ticket] and provide airfare refund, for service fee, [passenger] will need to 
fill claim form, [passenger] not ok, he wants us to add baggage free of cost as it was not 
clear for him that he will need to pay for the baggage, informed it is mentioned on web 
site if its hand lug[gage] or check-in bag flight, [passenger] will have to pay for adding a 
bag, [passenger] not ok, adv[ised] to fill claim form, no changes made as he dont want 
to cancel
A recording has not been provided of this telephone conversation, so there is not an 
independent record of what happened. Mr I has suggested we obtain a copy, but its not 
our responsibility to obtain evidence from third parties like O. Although we will make 
reasonable enquiries while we investigate complaints, ultimately the onus is on the 
parties to a complaint to provide evidence to support their position.
Faced with a persons recollections of what happened during a conversation some time 
ago, and notes which were made of that conversation immediately after it had 
happened, I am inclined to accept the notes as being more likely to be an accurate 
record of what took place. Thats not to say that I dont believe Mr I when he says he 
remembers it being agreed that the booking would be cancelled, I just think he may be 
mistaken.
I think what is most likely to have happened is that Mr I called to try to add baggage to 
his booking. I think when he discovered this would come at an extra cost, he probably 
did ask to cancel the booking but wanted a full refund, not a partial one, because he felt 
hed been misled over the baggage allowance. Given Mr I asked to speak to a manager 
I think its most likely the conversation was characterised by disagreement and that it 
ended without a conclusion being reached as to what would happen regarding the 
booking.
Ultimately, I dont think a cancellation took place, which means Mr I would not have 
been entitled to a refund. I therefore dont think it was wrong of Amex to decide not to 
pursue the chargeback any further and to reverse the temporary credit it had made to 
Mr Is account.
Amexs offer of compensation
This leaves me to consider whether Amexs apology and crediting of 5,000 loyalty points to Mr Is account was fair compensation for it having accidentally debited his 
account twice when it reversed its temporary refund.
The double-debiting caused Mr I some frustration and annoyance, and he thought it 
was the reason why his card was declined at a petrol station. It was in fact the first 
debit, which I think was legitimate, which took him over his credit limit and caused the 
card to be declined. So I dont think Mr Is card was declined due to Amexs mistake. 
Overall I think the impact of the double-debiting was relatively minor and Amexs 
apology and award of loyalty points was
a fair and reasonable response to it.
I said I was not minded to uphold Mr Is complaint for the reasons Id explained, and invited 
both Mr I and Amex to respond to my provisional decision, letting me have any new 
arguments or evidence they wanted me to consider, by 16 March 2022.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been returned to me to 
review once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has indicated disagreement with my provisional findings or 
provided further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out 
in my provisional decision which are quoted in the extracts contained in this final decision.
It follows that I think Amex was not wrong to decline to pursue a chargeback further for Mr I, 
to decline his section 75 claim, or to offer him 5,000 loyalty points for the administrative error 
it made while handling the chargeback.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman