DRN-2716868
The complaint
Ms H complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Mutuals records supplied to us here is a brief loan table to show the 
approved loans for Ms H. The first four were considered to have been out of this Services 
jurisdiction and so no decision is made in relation to them. They remain relevant in terms of 
the lending history. 
 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedterm 
in 
weeksweekly 
rateincome
1 28/05/2011 22/08/2012 £1,000 102 £15.19
2 18/08/2012 22/10/2014 £1,245 102 £18.91
3 23/03/2013 17/12/2014 £1,210 102 £18.38
4 14/12/2013 02/09/2015 £300 102 £4.55
5 25/10/2014 07/09/2016 £1,169 102 £17.76
6 20/12/2014 24/05/2017 £880 102 £13.37
7 10/09/2016 28/11/2018 £1,420 102 £21.57
8 27/05/2017 20/11/2019 £1,000 102 £15.19
9 23/12/2017 28/11/2018 £300 51 £8.23
10 01/12/2018 outstanding £1,000 51 £8.23
11 23/11/2019 outstanding £670 51 £18.39 £226.15pw
 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things 
right for Ms H for loans 5 to 11. She thought that the pattern of lending was unsustainable 
from loan 5.
Mutual disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints
of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of
this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our 
general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail 
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion letter is like the others we have received. The 
points made in a Report style document of around 18 pages (they vary by a page or two), 
including three appendices are virtually the same for each complaint where Mutual disagrees 
with our adjudicators outcomes. 
Colleagues decisions have addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised 
in these Report style submissions. These include points and issues relating to Mutual as a 
business in the lending market, the citation of published documents, the role of home credit 
lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the provision of graphs to compare its 
repayments with high cost short term credit lenders. 
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one of these points as 
Mutual has received many responses to these submissions already. Where Mutual has 
raised points relevant to Ms Hs circumstances or complaint I have referred to them where 
necessary. 
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
 Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Ms H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this 
point was reached by loan 5. I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs. 
One part of Mutuals submissions about which I firmly disagree is that it has said that there 
were gaps between the lending with Ms H and that is simply not the case. And despite its 
submission it has produced a chart which clearly demonstrates that all eleven loans 
overlapped showing a continuous period of lending from May 2011 to November 2019. Ms H 
remains indebted as loans 10 and 11 remain outstanding.
Mutual advocates a low and grow policy. I make no comment on any policies a lender may 
create or apply as thats an internal matter for that lender and outside my remit completely. 
But I do say that this policy, if it was in place does not seem to have been applied rigorously 
to the lending decisions under consideration here. Her first loan was for £1,000 over 102 
weeks which is almost two years. It does not seem to have been a low and grow policy 
application at that point as a first loan of £1,000 and for that term length is a relatively 
substantial loan. The growth in her indebtedness over eight and a half years demonstrates 
the repetitive nature of the lending.   
I have little evidence from Mutual about exactly what it did know about Ms Hs financial 
situation when approving the loans. Its final response letter to Ms H describes a number of 
application checks it did or would have done. But Ive received no evidence of them apart 
from details relating to Ms Hs income and expenditure for loan 11. Its first evidence of 
having carried out a credit search was just before loan 11, the last in the chain and after 
eight years of established lending. 
Mutual said that a good repayment record indicated that there was no financial difficulty and 
the repayment records assisted in the decision making for Mutual to lend more. Past 
repayment record may be of some use but inevitably does not give the whole picture and if  
as is often the case - people in debt borrow to repay loans, then Id expect a professional 
lender to have questioned that element and double checked it especially after years of being 
in debt as Ms H was when she applied for loan 5.  
By the time Ms H applied for Loan 5 she had been in debt to Mutual for almost three and half 
years. The overlapping nature of some of the loans meant that her weekly repayment sums 
had increased. By loan 5 approval she had only paid off loan 1. The proximity in dates 
between receiving the loan 5 capital and paying off loan 2 suggests that its likely she used 
the money from loan 5 to assist her with repaying of loan 2, or certainly to plug that gap 
inevitably left after repaying loan 2. Borrowing to repay debt is a clear indication of 
unsustainability.
So, at the point at which loan 5 was approved, Ms H was already showing signs of additional 
overlapping of loans, increase in weekly payment commitments, likely borrowing to repay 
earlier loans, and loan 5 was almost four times the size of loan 4 (£300). I have decided that 
Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Ms Hs indebtedness was 
unsustainable. 
Ms H didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. The pattern I have 
described earlier repeated itself when Ms H applied for Loan 10 in December 2018. At that 
point Ms H had just repaid loans 7, 8 and 9 a few days earlier. And its highly likely that she 
used the capital from loan 10 to repay those loans (indirectly) as she would have had a hole 
left to fill having paid those off. Mutual disagrees with this idea of borrowers having to borrow to fill a previous vacuum created by repayments, but here is a good example of that likely 
having occurred. 
Ms H took Loan 11 when loan 10 remained outstanding. Loan 11 was for around £670 while 
the earlier loan remained unpaid and these were similar levels of debt from over eight years 
before. The harmful pattern I think was established from loan 5, continued. Ms H had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual over a very long time.
I think that Ms H lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan five
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Ms H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 11 and Ill go on to set out what 
Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number 
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Ms H, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different 
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms H from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms H may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms H in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms H loans 5-11. If it has sold the outstanding debts Mutual 
should buy these back if its are able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mutual is 
not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mutual has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms H  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Ms H having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Ms H. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. 
Mutual shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already 
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loans 5-11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Ms H s credit 
file. Mutual do not have to remove loans 10-11 from Ms H s credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Ms H asks Mutual for a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this.
 
If Mutual intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Ms H owes, it must do this after tax. 
Mutual cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and Mutual Clothing and Supply 
Company Limited must do as I have directed above.                
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman