DRN-3045453
The complaint
 Mr T complains that he transferred his pension based on information from ReAssure Limited
that was wrong. 
What happened
Mr T wanted to transfer a personal pension he held with ReAssure to a different pension
provider. He received a valuation of the fund from ReAssure, as at 6 April 2020. The fund
value then fell significantly, and the new provider said it needed Mr Ts permission to
continue with the transfer.
Mr T checked the fund value with ReAssure and decided not to proceed. The markets then
improved, and Mr T contacted ReAssure again for a fund valuation on 15 April 2020. But
ReAssure quoted the wrong amount. It overvalued the transfer value amount by more than
£2,000. Mr T authorised the transfer based on the wrong amount ReAssure had quoted.
ReAssure accepted it had given Mr T information that was wrong. It offered £200
compensation for the inconvenience caused, but it wasnt willing to pay the additional
amount it had quoted. Mr T wasnt happy with ReAssures response and referred the matter
to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that if Mr T
had been quoted the correct valuation on 15 April he wouldnt have proceeded with the
transfer. He considered it likely that Mr T wouldve asked for the fund to be revalued at that
point and wouldve proceeded with whatever the transfer value was on 16 April.
The investigator said ReAssure should work out what Mr Ts new pension would be worth if
the transfer value as at 16 April had been invested. He said ReAssure should compensate
Mr T if his pension fund had suffered a loss.
ReAssure said it wasnt reasonable to value Mr Ts pension on the basis of a revaluation on
16 April. It said allowing customers to pick and choose dates like this would give an unfair
advantage that was detrimental to other customers.
ReAssure asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so the matter was passed
to me. I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 24 August 2021. I said Id 
provisionally decided to uphold the complaint, but I suggested redress that was different to 
the redress recommended by the investigator. Details of my provisional decision are set out 
below:
Its wasnt in dispute that the valuation information ReAssure gave Mr T on 15 April 
was wrong. Where this type of mistake has been made, our approach is to look at 
what was likely to have happened if there hadnt been any error. We aim to put the 
customer into the position they wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt happened. We 
dont expect a business to act in line with incorrect information it may have provided.
In this case Mr T shouldve been told that the value of his fund was £56,733.15 rather 
than the figure of £59,706 quoted by ReAssure. Had this been the case, I was 
satisfied that Mr T wouldnt have transferred his fund. Hed already been quoted this 
amount and decided not to proceed. So Mr Ts original pension wouldve remained 
as it was.
The investigator considered it likely that Mr T wouldve asked for a revaluation as at 
16 April 2020. But I wasnt persuaded ReAssure wouldve been obliged to provide a 
revaluation for a different date. The business had explained why its not reasonable 
to allow customers to adjust the valuation date as markets improve, and I accepted
what it said. So I wasnt persuaded that ReAssure should compensate Mr T as 
suggested by the investigator.
Instead, I thought about Mr Ts likely actions, had ReAssure not given him the 
incorrect transfer value amount in April 2020. Mr T was clearly happier with the 
prospect of transferring when the fund had increased to around £59,700. And my 
understanding of market movements since that date was that there would have been 
a point between then and now at which the fund would have recovered to that value.
I thought it was reasonable to assume that once this had happened, Mr T would have 
transferred to the same plan into which he did in April 2020 with the new provider.
So, to put Mr T as closely as possible into the position he would now be in if 
ReAssure had given him the correct valuation, I said, in summary, ReAssure should 
do the following:
- Obtain a notional value of Mr Ts new pension plan, at the date of any final 
decision, had his pension fund been transferred to it at the point it regained the 
value of £59,700.
- If that value is higher than the actual current value, ReAssure should pay into Mr 
T's new pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation. 
- ReAssure should also pay Mr T the £200 it has offered for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused.
Mr T responded to say that he agreed with my provisional findings.
ReAssure said it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said it had made Mr T aware on 
8 April that his transfer value was £56,733, which was the value on the date of the Origo 
request received 6 April 2020. It said the higher value it gave him on 15 April was the plan 
value on that date, and not the transfer value at the date of the Origo request.
ReAssure considered it had paid Mr T the correct amount, based on when the Origo request 
was received. It also considered the compensation paid for the inconvenience caused was 
fair.
ReAssure maintained that allowing Mr T to select a different date for the valuation of his fund 
was unfair to other customers.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything ReAssure has said in response to my provisional decision. I accept 
that the transfer amount ReAssure was obliged to pay was the value based on the date it 
received the Origo request ie. 6 April 2020. 
But the business has already acknowledged that it gave misleading information to Mr T 
during its call with him on 15 April. It gave him the plan value on that date, and he decided to 
proceed because he was under the impression that was the amount that would be 
transferred to his new pension. 
If ReAssure had given Mr T the correct information on 15 April, I still think its unlikely he 
wouldve proceeded with the transfer. I say this because as mentioned in my provisional 
decision, Mr T had already decided not to go ahead when hed been given the 6 April 
valuation on 8 April.
And I dont agree the proposed redress allows Mr T to pick a transfer date. Ive specifically 
said that this should be set at the point the fund value recovered to the amount which Mr T 
appeared to be happy with. This date cant be picked by either party. Its simply the date at 
which the fund regained that value. 
So I remain of the view that Mr T should be compensated in line with the redress set out in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put Mr T as closely as possible into the position he would now be in if ReAssure had 
given him the correct valuation, ReAssure should do the following:
- Obtain a notional value of Mr Ts new pension plan, at the date of this final 
decision, had his pension fund been transferred to it at the point it regained the 
value of £59,700.
- If that value is higher than the actual current value, ReAssure should pay into Mr 
T's new pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
ReAssure shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
- If ReAssure is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
- The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I have assumed Mr T is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have been able to take 
a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
- If the payment is made to the new pension plan or to Mr T later than 28 days after
ReAssure is notified of his acceptance of any final decision, simple interest at therate of 8% pa should be applied to any loss amount from the date of this final 
decision to the date of settlement.
- ReAssure should also pay Mr T the £200 it has offered for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct ReAssure Limited to pay compensation to 
Mr T in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman