DRN-1789835
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his account following a security review due to 
an online payment transfer.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr P set up an online payment transfer to a third-party for £300. Lloyds didn't 
allow the payment to go through and asked Mr P to call their fraud department for additional 
security checks.
Mr P phoned Lloyds' fraud department and the advisor ran through a number of security 
questions with him. Mr P was able to answer the questions Lloyds asked him, however 
Lloyds still didn't authorise the payment and placed a block on Mr P's account. Lloyds asked 
Mr P to go into a branch with photographic ID to confirm his identity. Mr P wasn't happy. He 
felt the Lloyds advisor made a judgement that Mr P was a fraudster because of his accent 
and ethnic origin.
Mr P attended branch as requested but had to take time off work to do so, which resulted in 
him not being paid. Once Mr P had confirmed his identity in branch the block placed on Mr 
P's account was removed and the payment was released for authorisation. Mr P remained 
unhappy because he lost out on the exchange rate due to the delay and says he missed a 
loan repayment date.
Mr P complained to Lloyds, but they didn't uphold his complaint. They apologised for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr P by needing to go into branch but say they were following 
their process to protect his account. So Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
The investigator explained to Mr P that Lloyds have to protect their customer's accounts, and 
because they still had concerns with the payment being made, it was reasonable for them to 
ask Mr P to go into branch. Mr P didn't agree and said the security questions he answered, 
only he would know, so he felt mistreated and harassed by Lloyds. Mr P also reiterated that 
he'd missed a loan payment because the money wasn't transferred. The investigator's view 
didn't change - and she didn't agree that Mr P had been mistreated by Lloyds. As an 
agreement couldn't be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr P so I've explained 
my reasons further below.
Lloyds, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds were 
acting in line with these obligations when stopping the payment and asking for additional information from Mr P. Unfortunately scams are becoming increasingly popular, and Lloyds 
have a duty to protect their customer's accounts. Therefore, I think it was reasonable Lloyds 
asked Mr P to call their fraud department when they noticed an online international transfer 
payment had been attempted.
I recognise Mr P was able to answer the security questions Lloyds asked him, but they've 
explained they still had concerns about the payment being made which is why they asked Mr 
P to go into branch with his ID. I recognise how strongly Mr P feels about this - he thinks 
Lloyds made a judgement based on his accent and ethnic origin. But, having listened to the 
call, I'm satisfied there is no evidence of discrimination. 
Lloyds have explained they still had concerns about the payment being made because of 
other factors. These factors include, but aren't limited to, Mr P's password recently being 
changed, an international payment being made to a new payee, and multiple log-ins to Mr 
P's internet banking. I consider all of these factors to be genuine concerns for Lloyds and I'm 
pleased to see they took a proactive approach in protecting Mr P's account.
I understand the inconvenience Mr P says this situation caused him - he had to take unpaid 
time off work and lost out on an exchange rate. But that doesn't mean Lloyds shouldn't have 
taken the steps they did. Lloyds had a concern that the payment Mr P was trying to make 
wasn't genuine, and as they have a duty to protect, they followed their process before 
releasing the payment. While I know Mr P says the security questions he answered should 
have been enough, I don't agree. Financial abuse is on the rise, and Mr P could have been 
forced into transferring money he wasn't comfortable with. While I'm pleased that wasn't the 
case, I think Lloyds acted appropriately in the circumstances based on their concerns.
I've thought about what Mr P has said about losing out on the exchange rate, taking unpaid 
leave from work and missing his loan repayment date. But I've found Lloyds were entitled to 
take the action they did, so it wouldn't be fair for me to ask them to compensate Mr P for 
these losses.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P. But I can't fairly say Lloyds have 
acted unreasonably. So I won't be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman