DRN-3162805
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclay Partner 
Finance (BPF) dealt with his request for assistance.
Mr A is being represented in this complaint by Mrs A. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to both as Mr A within my decision.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a fixed sum loan agreement 
with BPF. The agreement was for £14,312.50 over 60 months; with 59 monthly repayments 
of £312.13 and a final payment of £511.13. 
In December 2019, Mr A contacted BPF to let them know he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, as a result of ill health. Hed stopped making his contractual monthly payments, 
and BPF agreed to provide 30 days breathing space while Mr As medical condition was 
investigated. 
Mr A called BPF again on 3 February 2020. BPF offered an affordability assessment to see 
how they could further help him. But Mr A refused this offer, and BPF agreed a further 30 
days breathing space.
On 16 April 2020, Mr A applied for a payment deferral (also known as a payment holiday). 
But BPF refused this. And, on 1 May 2020, they sent Mr A a default notice, telling him that 
he needed to bring his account up to date by 2 June 2020, otherwise theyd issue a default. 
On 3 June 2020, Mr A contacted BPF to make a part-payment towards the arrears and to set 
up a payment arrangement. But the call was cut-off part way through, and a payment 
arrangement was never set up.
Mr A complained to BPF that theyd defaulted his account. He didnt think this was fair as 
hed contacted them to set up a payment plan. BPF didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr A 
brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Mr A wasnt eligible for a payment deferral, because of his existing 
arrears, so he didnt think that BPF had done anything wrong by not granting this. He also 
said that BPF had treated Mr A fairly by granting him breathing space, and by trying to set up 
a payment arrangement on 3 February, 13 March and 16 March 2020, all of which Mr A 
refused.
The investigator also said that the default notice required Mr A to clear the arrears by 2 June 
2020. So, even if he had made a partial payment and set up a payment plan on 3 June 
2020, this was after the default notice expired. So, he thought BPF had acted reasonably by 
defaulting the account. And he didnt think they needed to do anything more about this.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think that his personal circumstances had 
been taken into consideration, as the account was up to date before he fell ill. Which was 
something beyond his control. And he wasnt in any position to make a payment 
arrangement when BPF asked him to. So, hes asked for his case to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a fixed 
sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
Under the rules set down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), a firm must treat 
customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. These 
rules also say that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should 
allow the customer a reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
The FCA also issued guidance, which came into effect on 27 April 2020, and said where 
customers were facing financial difficulties due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, a 
payment deferral could be agreed. But this guidance also said that where a customer was in 
pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance  would 
continue to apply. 
Im satisfied that, in providing him periods of breathing space, and by offering him the 
opportunity to go through an affordability calculation so they could arrange a payment plan, 
BPF treated Mr A with consideration and forbearance. 
From the evidence Ive seen, despite late payments in August 2018, October 2018 and May 
2019, Mr As account was up to date at the end of October 2019. The scheduled payments 
for November 2019, December 2019 and January 2020 were all missed, but the account 
was brought back up to date by a payment of £936.39 on 31 January 2020.
The scheduled payments for February, March, April and May 2020 werent made, but Mr A 
did make a part-payment of £524 towards these arrears on 16 March 2020. And a further 
payment of £224.52 was paid on 20 May 2020.
Because of the longer-term nature of the arrears, Im also satisfied that Mr A wasnt eligible 
for a payment deferral under the April 2020 guidance. This is because his financial 
difficulties werent as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So, I dont think BPF did anything 
wrong by refusing Mr As application.
Ive seen a copy of the default notice BPF sent to Mr A on 1 May 2020. This explained that 
he was £724.52 in arrears, and that this need to be paid in full before 03/0620. The letter 
also explained that IF YOU DO NOT TAKE THE ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE 
BEFORE THE DATE SHOWN THE FURTHER ACTIONS SET OUT BELOW MAY BE 
TAKEN AGAINST YOU. As part of the further actions, BPF explained that we will notify the 
credit reference agencies that your account is in default, which could make it harder for you 
to get credit in the future.So, Im satisfied BPF were clear as to what they required (full payment of the arrears), by 
when (before 3 June 2020), and what would happen if this wasnt done. 
And this wasnt the first default notice BPF had issued. Ive also seen they sent Mr A a 
default notice dated 1 January 2020, asking him to pay the £936.39 arrears by no later than 
2 February 2020. This payment was made on 31 January 2020. And both the default notices 
were issued after BPF had sent Mr A regular letters telling him about his arrears.
Its not disputed that Mr A didnt contact BPF until 3 June 2020, after the default notice had 
expired. And, even if the call hadnt cut-off, Mr A wasnt able to clear the arrears in full  he 
could only make a part-payment and wanted to set up a payment arrangement for the rest. 
So, Mr A wasnt able to comply with the requirements of the default notice. And, because of 
this, I dont think that BPF did anything wrong by defaulting the account and reporting this 
default to the credit reference agencies. So, I wont be asking them to remove the default.
Mr and Mrs A have explained that this was a stressful situation for them, especially as it 
resulted from a situation that was outside of their control. And I appreciate they werent in a 
position to come to a payment arrangement in February or March 2020. But this doesnt 
mean that BPF shouldnt have taken any action, and it would be unreasonable to expect 
them to take no action for an extended period. As Ive said, they provided Mr A with 
consideration and forbearance. And they also followed their process by defaulting Mr A 
when they did, after giving him fair notice of this. So, I wont be asking them to compensate 
Mr or Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclay Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman