DRN-3548813
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In September 2021, Mr S account received a payment of £400 into it. The funds were 
immediately transferred to a crypto-currency account. 
Monzo subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for sending the 
payment to Mr S account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. 
Monzo reviewed Mr S account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr S 
account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr S complained that this was applied unfairly. 
Monzo looked at Mr S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S remained dissatisfied he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in September 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr S says the fraudulent funds entered his account without his knowledge. He told Monzo he 
lost his phone in August 2021 and only queried what was going on months later because 
hed recently found it. The phone contained a lot of private information and his online 
banking was accessed without his knowledge. Mr S subsequently told our adjudicator that 
he didnt communicate with Monzo at that time and that hed never found his phone but he 
did lose it at a party at roughly around the same time.
Ive thought about what Mr S his said. And even if put to one side my concerns about Mr S 
inconsistency and implausibility about not having contacted Monzo in early 2022, Im afraid 
that its difficult to place much weight at all on what Mr S is now saying, without anything to 
corroborate it. 
Secondly, even if I were to accept Mr S current version of events, it doesnt explain why he 
never reported his phone being lost or queried why he never had access to his account for 
several months after. Furthermore, I simply dont understand why transfers would continue 
to be made from Mr S main account, which he held with another bank and which he says he 
was getting his wages paid into and therefore must have had access to, to this account if   
Mr S didnt have access to it. Indeed, Im afraid that these transfers strongly suggest that      
Mr S continued to have access to his Monzo account.  
Im afraid the implausibility of Mr S version of events coupled with Mr S being unable to 
provide anything at all to corroborate what he says means that I cant reasonably conclude 
he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was 
complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr S was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But even taking into account the impact 
Mr S says the marker is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been 
complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope that Mr S will understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, as our 
adjudicator explained, Mr S might find that hes able to open an account with another bank 
as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any 
such equivalent. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman