DRN-1399824
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about the quality of a car she has been financing through an 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) trading as Alphera 
Financial Services.
What happened
Miss T took receipt of a used car in October 2017. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement with BMWFS. At the point of supply the car had already completed 
about 37,000 miles and was a little over three and a half years old.
Sixteen months later Miss T had a problem with the car. The engine management light 
illuminated, and the car went into limp mode.
The supplying dealership identified a turbo fault and said the manufacturer would pay half 
the cost to put this right. But whilst investigating the fault the dealership also noted some 
excessive carbon build up around the injectors where gas was leaking. They suggested a 
new engine may be required at a five-figure cost.
Miss T commissioned an independent inspection and the engineer said that the carbon build 
up had been happening over many months, possibly years. He said it was premature to 
suggest at this point that a full engine replacement was necessary, and he suggested the 
carbon was cleaned off so that the root cause of the injector leak could be identified. 
Miss T complained to BMWFS and they too arranged an independent inspection. That 
engineer noted the severe carbon build up but said he would expect the fault to have been 
noticed during servicing. So, it was his estimation that the fault had been developing for 
three to four months or two to three thousand miles.
BMWFS wrote to Miss T and rejected her complaint. They said they were only responsible 
for faults that were present or developing when she took receipt of the vehicle and they 
didnt think there was evidence that either the turbo or the engine fault had been there or 
developing at that time.
Miss T arranged for the carbon to be removed so her independent inspector could be 
recalled to look at the vehicle. He noted that the vehicle had been de-coked, and the 
injectors resealed. He said the coking issue was now resolved but when test driving the car 
he noted that the turbo issue remained. He suggested the dealer now needed to replace the 
turbo charger as theyd initially suggested. He said the coking problem would not have been 
identified during the services that had been done up to the current mileage.
 
Miss T therefore referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided an 
opinion. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to suggest the faults were present or 
developing when Miss T took receipt of the car and she therefore didnt think it would be fair 
to hold BMWFS responsible for the repair costs. 
She noted that Miss T had suggested thered been a conflict of interest and BMWFS were 
unwilling to compromise their relationship with the dealership by discussing matters with 
them. But she didnt think there was evidence of that. She noted that BMWFS offered 
finance through many different avenues and not just through this dealership.
She also noted that Miss T had been disappointed about the customer service shed 
received from BMWFS. But she didnt think the delays she had seen evidence of were 
excessive and she noted that independent expert opinion had been sought and she thought 
this would inevitably delay matters a little.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators view. She insisted that there had been significant 
delays in BMWFSs handling of her problems and she said they should have stood shoulder 
to shoulder with her when tackling the dealership, rather than protecting their own business 
relationship. She thought the investigator had favoured the independent report provided by 
the business rather than hers and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss T. The car 
here was around three and a half years old and had already completed more than 37,000 
miles. So, Id expect some wear and tear.
Miss T has explained that she got her car back on 6 July 2019 and that a new turbo was 
fitted; the carbon was cleared from the injectors and they were removed and resealed. Shes 
explained that the car is now working satisfactorily.
Several attempts were made to try to establish if the faults with the engine on this car were 
present or developing at the point it was supplied to Miss T. Miss Ts independent inspection 
suggested the faults could have been developing for a long period; months or even years. The independent inspection arranged by BMWFS suggested the faults were most probably 
developing for the last 2 to 3,000 miles. Neither expert was prepared to suggest the faults 
were most likely developing from the start and thats why BMWFS have refused to accept 
responsibility.
I agree with BMWFS. I think, given the fact that the faults occurred sixteen months after the 
car was supplied, it was for Miss T to demonstrate that the they were present when the car 
was supplied to her and I dont think either expert has been able to demonstrate that was 
most likely to have been the case. So, I dont think there is evidence this car was not of 
satisfactory quality.
BMWFSs relationship with the dealership
Miss T has suggested BMWFS didnt want to compromise their relationship with the 
dealership and that has had a bearing on how theyve handled this complaint. I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence thats the case. BMWFS have business relationships with many 
dealerships and Im not persuaded they would not wish to discuss matters with this one. I 
say that because if an award was made against BMWFS I would expect them to try to 
recover it, at least in part, from the dealership. It would therefore be in their interest to 
discuss matters with them.
delays
Miss T has complained about delays when dealing with BMWFS. Im not persuaded that 
their handling of this complaint has been delayed excessively to the point where I would 
consider asking the business to compensate Miss T. They received the complaint in early 
April and arranged an independent inspection the next month; providing their final response 
a few days later. Id expect some delays when there was a need for expert views to be 
commissioned but Im not persuaded theres evidence of excessive delay here. 
data protection
Miss T has complained about BMWFSs supply of information they held about her. Its not 
our role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. This is for the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. But we can consider whether its fair and reasonable 
to tell a business to pay compensation or take any other action to recognise the impact of 
whats happened on the consumer. 
Im not persuaded theres evidence of any loss or particular impact that would suggest 
Miss T should be compensated for any potential breach. I therefore think her complaint 
about data protection problems would be best directed to the ICO if she wishes to pursue it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman