DRN-3200894
The complaint
Mr W complains that the interest rate margin on his One mortgage account with The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc has increased over time. Mr W says that its unfair that RBS have 
increased their margin at his expense and that this has cost him thousands of pounds of 
additional interest.
Mr W would like RBS to reduce the interest rate to a fair and competitive interest rate and to 
refund him with the additional interest hes paid over the years.
What happened
Mr W has had his One mortgage account for many years. Mr W complains that until the 
financial crash of 2008, the interest rate on his account was always around 0.5% above the 
Bank of England base rate. But when base rate was reduced to historic lows by 2009, the 
interest rate on his One account didnt fall with it. It went to about 4% and has stayed at 
that level since.
In 2010 Mr W changed his mortgage from joint names to his sole name. At that point a new 
mortgage offer was signed.
Mr W complains that RBS unfair actions have led to him paying thousands of pounds in 
additional mortgage interest over the years. He wants the interest rate reduced to a rate 
comparable with other mortgages, and for some of the additional interest hes paid to be 
refunded to him.
RBS said that the interest rate on Mr Ws mortgage wasnt linked to the Bank of England 
base rate  it set the interest rate by reference to a range of factors, including changes in 
the mortgage market overall such as costs of variable rate funding and competitor 
movements. It said Mr W could explore switching his mortgage to another core mortgage 
product with RBS or NatWest which have favourable rates due to the recent rate reduction 
if he wanted to.
RBS also said it had responded to this complaint in 2018, and so it was out of time. An 
ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision on 18 August 2021 setting out that we could look 
at the interest rate since 28 September 2018.
Our investigator looked into the interest rate that had been applied to Mr Ws mortgage 
from late September 2018 to when he complained about this in 2020. Her view was that 
the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Our investigator didnt think that RBS had acted unfairly 
by choosing not to pass on all reductions in Bank of England base rate to the One 
accounts variable rate. She considered there were no contractual barriers that prevented 
Mr W from taking out other interest rate products if he considered this type of mortgage 
account was no longer competitively priced.  
Mr W asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint again and reach a final decision on 
the matter. He said, in summary, that the matter goes further back than our investigator 
had looked at. RBS used to immediately increase the variable rate if rates ever went up, 
but he doesnt recall them ever reducing the variable rate if base rate fell. Mr W also said 
that since 2010 he hasnt been able to move to a competitively priced mortgage product 
due to tightening of lenders criteria and his income status.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive revisited the period of time that we can 
consider this complaint. Having done so, I agree with my fellow ombudsmans decision that 
we can only look at this complaint about the interest rate applied to Mr Ws One mortgage 
account from 28 September 2018. I know that will be disappointing for Mr W. Hes made it 
clear that he is primarily concerned about the earlier period of variable rate movements 
following the financial crash of 2008.
Ive carefully looked at the mortgage offer Mr W accepted in 2010 as part of my 
determination of this complaint. The offer document sets out the terms of Mr Ws One 
account and how the interest rate was intended to operate. 
Section 4 of the mortgage offer sets out a description of the mortgage. It says:
Your borrowing is at the One accounts variable rate, currently 3.75%, applicable to the 
house value shown above and the facility you have requested of £221,250.
As the interest rate is variable, it can change at any time- and this change may be effective 
immediately. We will always let you know of any chance as soon as we can- and we will 
always give you advance notice of the amount of interest that you will be charged.
I think the mortgage offer makes it reasonably clear that the mortgage was on the One 
Account variable rate. This is a managed variable rate which depends in part on the loan to 
value of the overall facility limit. 
I have considered changes made to the One account in recent years as part of my 
assessment of the background to this complaint. The interest rate applied to the account 
was 4% from May 2012, until November 2018 when it rose to 4.25%.
I also note in March 2020, the Bank of England reduced the base rate from 0.75% to 0.25% 
and then to 0.1% in response to the covid-19 pandemic. Im aware that RBS didnt pass on 
these reductions to the One accounts variable rate although it had passed on a rise to the 
Bank of England base rate in 2018. 
Ive thought about the terms and conditions that apply to this facility, and whether the 
changes made are in line with the reasons for changes to the variable rate allowed under the 
facilitys terms and conditions. 
In the section of the terms and conditions about interest, a list of reasons is given by which 
RBS may change Interest Rates. 
One of the reasons given is to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably 
expect to occur, in bank base rates or interest rates generally in the UK financial services 
industry. While the terms and conditions say RBS may change interest rates due to a 
change in base rates, there is nothing that says that it must. 
There are also other reasons cited which offer RBS considerable discretion to change the One accounts variable rate. Another such reason given is to reflect a change which has 
occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur in the cost of funding your Facility. 
I think its made reasonably clear in the documentation that Mr Ws mortgage interest rate 
isnt linked to base rate. And I havent found evidence that supports that RBS gave Mr W 
any indication or expectation that the interest rate would always change when base rate 
changed. 
Ive considered whether it was fair that RBS passed on the increase in base rate to the 
variable rate in 2018, and yet chose not to pass on rate reductions in 2020. 
Im satisfied that RBS was operating within the terms of the mortgage when it chose to 
pass on the 0.25% increase in base rate to the One variable rate in 2018. The is one of 
the specific events or reasons under which the terms and conditions allow RBS to 
increase the One variable rate. 
Ive also thought about its decision to not pass on cuts in base rate in early 2020. RBS 
has provided information to us about why it decided not to pass on these base rate 
reductions at that time. Im aware that the One Account is a flexible mortgage which offers 
a number of features that arent present in a standard mortgage. RBS has explained that 
there are running costs associated with One Accounts, and these costs didnt reduce 
when base rate fell. At that time, RBS made an assessment as to whether it considered 
the One Account offering still delivered value for money. Having determined that it did, 
RBS decided at that point that it was reasonable not to pass on the base rate cuts to the 
One variable rate. Ultimately, Im satisfied that this was a commercial decision that it was 
legitimately able to make within the terms and conditions of Mr Ws mortgage.
I think its a relevant consideration that there arent any exit fees or an applicable Early 
Repayment Charge if Mr W did choose to repay this mortgage. I note what Mr W says about 
other options not being as attractive to him due to his income status and the tightening of 
rules following the Mortgage Market Review. Im also mindful that there may be practical 
barriers (such as loan to value and income levels) that make it harder to move to other 
lenders and get the best rates available in the market. But even so, if Mr W were to decide 
that this mortgage no longer offered him overall value for money, he does have other 
options from his current lender. I know RBS has invited him to explore other fixed rate 
products from its existing mortgage range of RBS and NatWest mortgages if he would like 
to. 
On balance, for the reasons given, I dont think RBS has acted unfairly. I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman