DRN-4529555
The complaint
Mr G complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly granted him three personal 
loans (in 2009, 2014 and 2015) that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr G took out the first loan (account number ending 3134) in January 2009. The amount was 
£3,000. This was repaid in January 2012, having been paid in full. The second loan of 
£5,000 (account number ending 9412) was opened in April 2014, and closed in June 2015 
when it was repaid early and replaced by the third loan (account number ending 7221). The 
third loan was for £5,619.52, of which £3,000 was new borrowing. It was granted over a term 
of 36 months, but after Mr G fell into arrears as a result of financial difficulties, the loan was 
sold to a third-party debt collection firm.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide any records for the first two loans, but Ive been able to 
find out the amounts involved from bank statements provided by Mr G.
Mr G said Lloyds should not have given him these loans, as it should have seen from his 
income and expenditure that they were unaffordable. And if the correct checks had been 
carried out, Lloyds wouldve seen missed payments, and that Mr G was constantly 
overdrawn. Mr G further said that the last loan caused him to massively increase his 
overdraft to help pay priority bills for example, to the extent that he was unable to get out of 
it. Mr G would like the interest removed from what he still owes along with a refund of all 
charges and interest paid to date, and all negative information removed from his credit 
record.
Mr G complained to Lloyds about all this. Lloyds said it wouldve carried out checks before 
granting the loans, but, given the age of the applications, it no longer had the relevant 
records, and it told Mr G that it did not uphold his complaint. Mr G then brought his complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr G didnt 
agree, and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I should also say here that Lloyds initially told us that it considered that Mr Gs complaint was 
made outside the time limits that this service has to apply. However, another ombudsman at 
this service looked into this and concluded that this service does have the power to consider 
Mr Gs complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2023, in which I explained why I partly disagreed 
with our investigators view, and that I proposed to uphold Mr Gs complaint about the third 
loan, but not his complaint about the first and second loans. Both parties have now 
responded, accepting my conclusions, so I can now issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether its possible to determine 
whether Lloyds completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to make the repayments on each loan account in a sustainable way  and if 
so, whether it did so. Ive also taken into account that the date of the first loan predated the 
introduction of Financial Conduct Authority rules, so, in considering that loan, Ive looked at 
the relevant regulations from that period.
I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision as follows:
Mr G sent in copies of bank statements and letters regarding his overdraft. A number of 
these letters were dated after the third loan was granted, so I have focused on those prior to 
the loan being taken out, which are therefore relevant to the lending decisions. Lloyds sent in 
copies of its records of Mr Gs complaint, and the details it still held for the last of the three 
loans. It said it had no further information to provide.
We asked Lloyds to provide general details of the checks it wouldve used at the times when 
Mr Gs loans were granted. It said that, when assessing applications for credit, it used 
automated credit decisioning, which is industry standard. In summary, its system took data 
from the credit reference agencies, and allocated points for each piece of relevant 
information, which were added up to produce an internal score. When a score reached a 
certain level then the application was approved. If the score did not reach this level the 
application was either declined, or referred for a manual review. There were different criteria 
for different products.
In line with the Lending Code (an industry code of practice), Lloyds said its system 
considered:
The type and amount of credit being sought;
How the customer had handled their finances in the past (from credit reference agency 
data);
Internal credit scoring techniques
Income as declared by the customer.
Lloyds said its lending process didnt involve the manual review of bank statements.
As I explained above, Mr G took out three loans, so Ive looked at each in turn. The 
information I have is limited  I dont have details of the individual checks Lloyds carried out 
on Mr Gs applications, and nor do I have a copy of Mr Gs credit history for the relevant 
period. However, Ive looked at the bank statements and information provided by Mr G to 
see what I can establish about his circumstances at the time of each loan.
Loan ending 3134 - January 2009I can see from Mr Gs bank statements from July 2008 to May 2009 that the amount 
borrowed on the first loan was £3,000, and the monthly payment was £115.32. I dont have 
information about the purpose of the loan.
In the months leading up to the loan being granted, Mr Gs monthly income varied but the 
average over the preceding six months was around £1,000.
Mr Gs recollection of his monthly outgoings was that he was paying rent of around £350, 
and contributing around £300 to other bills and food costs with his then partner. He said he 
had a credit card and a mail order account, and mobile phone bills, and thought outgoings 
on these were about £180. However, I dont know what balances were outstanding on the 
credit card and mail order accounts. 
I can see from the bank statements that Mr G was going into overdraft just before he got 
paid, but this didnt exceed £100, and it looks as though this was an arranged overdraft. I 
can see payments to a mail order company, although not to a credit card provider until after 
the loan was granted. The payments to the mobile phone company were fairly regular and 
small amounts, suggesting a pay-as-you-go arrangement rather than a monthly contract.
I think the overdraft and any credit card and mail order balances wouldve appeared on Mr 
Gs credit record and therefore in the information that Lloyds wouldve drawn from the credit 
reference agencies and used in its assessment. Most of the other transactions shown on the 
bank statements were cash withdrawals or debit card transactions, rather than identifiable 
credit (or other) commitments, so I cant say what was discretionary spending.
I dont have any information on whether Lloyds lending decision was automated or involved 
a manual review. However, from the limited information I have, I dont think Lloyds acted 
unfairly in granting the loan. I say this because, based on the information provided by Mr G, 
and in particular the bank statements, I dont have enough evidence to suggest that he was 
over committed, or that he didnt have sufficient disposable income to allow him to meet the 
loan repayments.
Therefore I dont propose to uphold this element of Mr Gs complaint.
Loan ending 9412  April 2014
Mr G sent in bank statements from December 2013 to July 2014. From these I can see that 
the loan granted in April 2014 was for £5,000, with a monthly payment of £243.20. Again, I 
dont know the purpose of the loan.
The bank statements show that Mr Gs monthly income was still variable, but the average in 
the months leading up to the loan was around £1,500. Mr G tended to go overdrawn just 
before he got paid, up to about £120, but in the month before the loan was granted, this 
reached £1,000. However, as before, it looks as though this was an arranged overdraft.
Mr G said that he had started to get into financial difficulties by this point. He told us that in 
addition to his rent and living expenses (including car costs) he had mail order catalogue 
accounts and had started to get other loans. He recalled his outgoings as being rent of £450, 
and living costs (including council tax, utilities, and food) as being around £1,200.
Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements for the months preceding this loan being granted. 
Theres a direct debit of £47.50 to another lender in March and April 2014, and a few 
standing order payments, but again most of the entries are cash withdrawals or debit card 
transactions. I cant otherwise identify obvious signs of increasing credit commitments. I 
appreciate that Mr G has given his best recollections of what he was paying out at the time, but Im conscious that this was over nine years ago  and theres not enough detail on the 
bank statements to provide a clear picture of his circumstances.
As with the first loan, I think Mr Gs overdraft and any other credit commitments wouldve 
appeared on his credit record and therefore in the information that Lloyds wouldve drawn 
from the credit reference agencies and used in its assessment. Again, I dont have enough 
evidence to say that he was over committed, or that he didnt have sufficient disposable 
income to allow him to meet the loan repayments. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds did 
anything wrong in granting the second loan.
Therefore I dont propose to uphold this element of Mr Gs complaint.
Loan ending 7221 -June 2015
This loan was for £5,619.52, of which £3,000 was new borrowing and the rest used to repay 
the loan from 2014. It was granted over a term of 36 months, with a monthly payment of 
£202.29, but after Mr G fell into arrears as a result of financial difficulties, the loan was sold 
to a third-party debt collection firm in 2018.
From Mr Gs bank statements, I can see that his average monthly income in the months 
leading up to the loan was around £1,550.
I noted above that Mr G had sent in letters about his overdraft from September 2014 
onwards, and these show that his overdraft limit was increased quite frequently between 
then and the third loan being granted. Mr G has also mentioned a second current account, 
which was also in overdraft, although I dont have the statements for this second account.
Mr G said that when this loan was granted, he was the only income earner in the household, 
supporting a family of four. He said he had other loans and credit cards, and was using 
payday loans. His recollections of his outgoings were that the monthly rent was £400, and 
living expenses were around £1,300. In addition, he was making the payments on the 
previous loan.
As with the previous loans, many of the entries on the bank statements are cash withdrawals 
or debit card transactions, so its difficult to identify the level of his other credit commitments 
(apart from the existing Lloyds loan). But the bank statements show that, by this point, Mr 
Gs account was going into overdraft every month, within a few days of his salary being paid. 
So his account was virtually always overdrawn.
I dont know what checks Lloyds carried out before granting this loan, so I cant know 
whether the application was approved automatically or subject to manual review. But it 
seems to me that Mr Gs borrowing behaviour in terms of his steadily increasing overdraft 
ought reasonably to have prompted a more detailed review of his income and outgoings.
I think such a review wouldve shown that the monthly repayments on the new loan were 
unlikely to be sustainable. I say this because, although I accept that the monthly payments 
were slightly lower than those on the previous loan, taking account of the increased family 
commitments Mr G has mentioned, and the frequent increases in  and use of  his 
overdraft (as evidenced by the statements and letters he has sent in) Im not satisfied that he 
was left with enough disposable income to manage those repayments sustainably. It looks 
as though the payments would effectively have had to be made from the overdraft. So Im 
not satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly in granting this loan to Mr G.
Therefore I propose to uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.As I noted, both parties responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision. On 
that basis, I have no reason to change my conclusions, and therefore I am upholding Mr Gs 
complaint about the third loan, but not his complaint about the first and second loans. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed in 2015, 
because he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. Lloyds must put this right.
Lloyds should buy the loan back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is 
not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below:
It should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan (account number ending 
7221) from the outset. The payments Mr G made should be deducted from the new 
starting balance  the £5,619.52 originally lent. 
if, once all adjustments have been made, this shows that Mr G has made 
overpayments leading to a credit balance, these overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr G, together with interest at 8% simple a year* from the date they were made to the 
date of settlement.
if, once all adjustments have been made, this shows that Mr G still has an outstanding 
amount to repay, Lloyds should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan.
Lloyds should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint about the loan granted in 2015, but not his 
complaint about the loans granted in 2009 and 2014, and to require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mr G the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman