DRN-1839830
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mrs C complained about two instalment loans she took out with cash4unow.
Heres a table showing loan details:
Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
106/10/2017 17/10/2017 5 £300.00 £103.91
205/12/2017 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £147.82
When Mrs C complained to cash4unow it didnt uphold her complaint  although it made a 
one-off goodwill offer to settle the complaint in order to avoid the complaint having to 
come to this service. Mrs C wasnt happy settling the complaint on the terms the lender 
proposed so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs C and cash4unow told us about these loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for cash4unow to ask Mrs C for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Mrs C provided or 
the information cash4unow shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mrs C had told cash4unow. 
Although Mrs C told us shed been unwell when she arranged the loans, our adjudicator 
explained that this wasnt something wed have expected cash4unow to have known about 
or found out.
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Mrs C mainly said that she still believes that these loans shouldnt have been issued. She 
feels that the amount of outstanding credit at the time both loans were given shows she had 
an outgoing amount which was far beyond her income. And a check of her credit file 
(particularly for loan 2) wouldve shown a sustained amount of borrowing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cash4unow provided Mrs C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
cash4unow needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mrs C before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Cash4unow says it agreed to Mrs Cs application after carrying out a comprehensive and 
robust creditworthiness assessment which included searching her credit file and asking 
Mrs C to declare her income and tell cash4unow what she spent on other monthly outgoings 
such as food, mortgage, travel and other payments. 
Cash4unow says the information it gathered about Mrs C showed that the amounts she 
asked for were relatively low in comparison to her stated income and Mrs Cs credit profile 
indicated that she wasnt having issues managing the credit commitments she already had.
It said these loan balances shouldve been affordable for her - and in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think cash4unow was wrong to lend Mrs C loan 1. This was her first loan with 
cash4unow and so I think cash4unow was entitled to rely on the information Mrs C provided. 
This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing. And it appears that there 
wasnt anything else shown in the checks cash4unow did that suggested otherwise. 
At this early stage, Mrs C didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
cash4unow to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in 
the information Mrs C provided, or the information cash4unow shouldve been aware of, which meant that cash4unow shouldve taken steps to verify the information Mrs C had 
declared. 
So I cant uphold Mrs Cs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
This loan was for a quite a lot more money than loan 1. But Ive noted that Mrs C had paid 
loan 1 early  within a couple of weeks or so of taking it out. And there was a gap of more 
than six weeks between Mrs C taking out the second loan and paying loan 1. I dont think 
any of these things was enough to make cash4unow think that it shouldnt have kept lending 
to Mrs C. 
Cash4unow asked Mrs C to update the information she provided about her finances each 
time she applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for 
Mrs C. There wasnt anything to indicate to cash4unow that Mrs C had found it hard to pay 
loan 1  or that paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Mrs Cs complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, bearing in mind the amount of the total monthly repayments she had to 
make for each of her loans, the questions cash4unow asked Mrs C and keeping in mind that 
these were Mrs Cs first two loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for cash4unow to rely on 
the level of information Mrs C was providing.
Ive taken into account everything Mrs C has said, including her comments sent in response 
to our adjudicators opinion. Id like to reassure Mrs C that Ive looked at the complaint afresh 
 and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
I think its reasonable to say that cash4unow was entitled to decide Mrs Cs lending 
applications based on the information it had available at the time. And its lending decisions 
dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when deciding whether 
to provide these loans.  
I accept that in reality Mrs Cs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information cash4unow says it obtained. Like the 
adjudicator, Im very sorry to learn that Mrs C wasnt well at the time she arranged these 
loans. I can appreciate that this meant her circumstances generally must have been difficult, 
making this a stressful and anxious time for her. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that cash4unow did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mrs C. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mrs C has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I take this opportunity to remind cash4unow (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it 
should discuss payment options with Mrs C and treat her fairly and sympathetically if there is 
still an outstanding balance on loan 2 and Mrs C needs further time to pay what she still 
owes.
And if Mrs C would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman