DRN-3798913
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) induced him to sell shares believing 
he would obtain a particular price having been misled due to shortcomings in Barclays app.
What happened
Mr B held shares in a company with a Barclays share dealing service. He had bought the 
shares using that service. He had previously bought and sold shares once before using that 
service. He hadnt any other recent or relevant experience of buying or selling shares. 
Barclays offered an app through which shares could be traded through its service. Mr B sold 
his shares using the app. He placed his sale instruction using the app on Monday morning 
before the London stock market, on which these shares traded, had opened. 
Based on the instruction he had put through, Mr B expected to receive 145p per share. In 
the course of his conversations with Barclays and his discussions with and submissions to 
our service, Mr B has given a number of reasons for this expectation. In brief summary:
He has said he was aware 145p was the closing price the shares had on the previous 
trading day and he has said he was not aware that shares do not open at the start of the 
trading day at the price at which they closed on the preceding trading day. Rather he has 
said he expected the shares to open at the previous closing price, so by placing his trade 
before the market opened he could expect to get that price or something close to that 
price when the market opened - because his trade would be placed at the start of trading 
and before the price could move very far from that starting price.
He has said that having selected an at best order type on the app, he went through the 
app to a final or confirmation screen on which the price of 145p was shown very large 
on the screen. The size, positioning and prominence of the figure on that screen, either 
on its own or together with other factors such as the screen being the last screen in the 
process, led him to believe this was the price he was going to get. An indication on that 
same screen that the price was an estimate, and so the actual price could differ, was too 
small or lacking prominence such that he did not notice it or could have reasonably 
disregarded it had he noticed it.
He has said that if he had noticed or taken account of the indication on the screen that 
the price given was an estimate, this would only have reinforced his expectation that he 
would get that price or something close to it  as an estimate implies grounds to suppose 
the end result will bear some resemblance to the estimate. So Barclays estimate would 
have led him to believe this was, at least in Barclays estimation, the price hed likely get.
Mr B has said - in brief - that if Barclays couldnt present an accurate price  or an estimate 
that was accurate - it should not have presented any price at all and to do so in the way it did 
was misleading and misled him. Mr B has said the price he actually got was far from the 
price shown on the app, which was a price from the last market close some days before. In 
his view this all supports the view that Barclays recklessly presented an estimate that was 
wrong and misleading because Barclays had no reason to suppose the price on its app  
estimated or otherwise  was the price he was likely to get. Hes also said Barclays had no 
excuse for showing a price from days earlier - and as its app is updated every 15 minutes, 
the price should have been more current and he wouldve presumed it was accordingly.
The price Mr B obtained, and that gave rise to his complaint, was 137p. The result was Mr B 
received what he says was £285 or £265 less than he had expected (145p and 137p are 
rounded figures). Mr B was offered and paid a goodwill payment by Barclays of £50 and he 
has said he seeks only the balance of his claim (so £50 less, which he has said is £215).
The order type chosen by Mr B - at best - means, broadly, his order would be executed at 
whatever price the market was offering when Barclays came to place his trade at the start of 
the trading day. So the order type offered no guarantee of any particular price. Mr B placed 
little weight on this point at the time of placing his order. He has said he was new to trading 
and this order type is one he had used before at the suggestion of Barclays. Insofar as he 
was or ought to have been aware of it, the non-guaranteed nature of the order type was in 
his view overridden by the way in which the price information was presented to him in big 
bold text - 10 times larger than anything else there - showing him what he would get. 
In further support of his case Mr B has referred to members of Barclays staff having agreed 
with him about the app screen or process being misleading or flawed. If he made a mistake, 
in his view it was one the app contributed to or caused and one others make too.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Our investigator concluded, 
in brief summary, that Mr Bs order type didnt guarantee him any particular price and 
Barclays was entitled to rely on Mr B knowing this and having sufficient awareness of the 
order process. Our investigator didnt think the price displayed on the screen was misleading 
and thought it served a purpose as a reference for the general scale of the share price - 
some shares trade for pennies and some for hundreds of pounds for example.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a number of points to be taken into consideration. I have read 
all of them. They included, in brief summary:
The price shown was a massive fictitious value and didnt serve any purpose. He used 
it as a point of reference as an inexperienced investor but it was massively out and cost 
him over £200. An inexperienced as opposed to experienced investor cant be expected 
to know an at best order doesnt guarantee the price. Barclays has told him the price he 
was shown was more than likely wrong (which he has since said says all that is needed 
about the app). Barclays has never given him guidance about best price or weekend 
pricing. The investigator didnt take into account that this was his first ever trade on the 
app. The app, like anything, can be improved  the opening price could be updated 
every 15 minutes or the price could be removed or have a warning attached to the effect 
that it is unlikely to be the price you get, for example.
Mr B also raised a number of points about Barclays customer service. He says he was 
promised conversations with someone authorised to refund his money but those he spoke to 
didnt have that authority. Barclays acted dishonestly with him in his view. Also aside from 
the original agent, Barclays hasnt been sympathetic to him in his view. He also says it took 
too long for someone senior to speak to him about his issue.
Mr B considers that all this is poor service for which he is due compensation and the £50 
paid already is not for any of this. He also says Barclays said it tried to call him and said it 
had listened to a call when it hadnt. If it did try to call it didnt let the phone ring long enough 
and when he did speak to Barclays it hadnt done what he had wanted. He says Barclays got 
his name wrong in a letter and he had to chase for the payment Barclays gave him.Our investigator considered the root of Mr Bs complaint to be his lack of familiarity with the 
various order types. Having looked into his points about service, our investigator didnt think 
these should change the outcome of the complaint. Barclays had made errors, such as with 
his name, but there wasnt anything to persuade the investigator that Barclays needed to do 
more than it already had to fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. Mr Bs points about late payment, 
delay and dishonesty werent supported by the call evidence in our investigators view, for 
example. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators conclusion and provided some further points. In brief 
summary he said the £50 offered was initially for the confusion around the screen (on the 
app), so if no more was offered it means nothing had been awarded for any of the other 
issues he had raised. In his view Barclays had failed to refer his issues to someone with 
authority to settle them to his satisfaction and Barclays had promised to do this and taken 
too long each time but failed each time to do it despite promising him it would. He restated 
his view that the price figure given on the app screen served no purpose except to mislead 
inexperienced investors like himself and that Barclays staff had agreed with him on this. He 
didnt wish to restate all his points, but he did restate that Barclays had expressed the view 
that the figure shown to him on the app screen was likely wrong.
Our investigator remained of the same view. Mr B reiterated that his service issues arose 
largely after hed been offered £50, so that payment wasnt for those issues.
As Mr Bs complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ill explain my reasons. But first Id mention that in summarising above the points Mr B has 
made in the course of this complaint, I have not tried to include every point or transcribe all 
his conversations in full. Rather Ive outlined the points I find most pertinent to the complaint 
and my summary emphasises what I find to be their most pertinent aspects. I should make 
clear, though, that Ive taken into account all Mr B has said  both in what he has sent and in 
his calls with staff at Barclays, copies of which he has, and his calls with our investigator.
Mr B says the presentation of the figure on the final app screen was such that it led him to 
think this was the price he would get. In reaching my conclusions I accept all Mr B has said 
about that screen and about how the figure was presented. I say this as Ive seen nothing to 
suggest anything else about the presentation of that particular screen. So I proceed on the 
basis that the price shown to Mr B on the screen, if taken in isolation and at face value, was 
misleading in the way Mr B has said it was.
But in my view the price shown on the screen wasnt to be taken in isolation or at face value.
One reason I say this is because before reaching that screen Mr G had to select, from a list 
he was presented, the type of order he wished to place. My view is that when presenting him 
with a choice of options from which he had to actively select before he could go on to trade, 
Barclays was entitled to rely on Mr B knowing what he was asking for before making that 
selection and proceeding to his trade. Whatever Mr B was presented with next, had to be 
viewed in the context of the type of order he selected. The order type he chose was to trade based on the best price Barclays could obtain in the 
market when it came to place the trade. For that sort of trade the price obtained becomes 
known after the trade and isnt guaranteed beforehand. So the price quoted on the screen 
needed to be seen in that context. 
Theres no dispute that information explaining the nature of this type of order was available  
in the terms and conditions for example. Mr B says he hadnt reviewed this. He had received 
guidance on it from Barclays in connection with an earlier trade. But ultimately it was for him 
to decide which order type suited him best and to satisfy himself that he understood what he 
was asking for. His order type meant he needed to proceed on the basis that any price 
quoted to him could not be a guaranteed price. Because of this, and in light of what Ive said 
above, I cant support his claim that Barclays is responsible if he was misled by its app into 
believing he would obtain the exact price shown on the app when he placed his order.
From what Mr B has said, he was aware the price shown was the most recent closing price 
but wasnt aware that the last closing price wouldnt be the market opening price. Instead the 
price shown on Barclays app encouraged him in his belief that it would be. But in my view 
Barclays was entitled to offer its service on the basis that Mr B was responsible for being 
aware of how opening and closing prices would work for the particular instrument he had 
decided to trade in the market he had decided to trade on. Im not persuaded Barclays 
needed to specifically point out or explain this, on the app screens or elsewhere. 
Even if Mr B hadnt been aware that the price shown was the previous market price (or a 
price matching that price), I note that Mr B placed his order around half an hour before the 
market opened. As the market was closed, my view is Mr B could not reasonably rely on the 
price shown on the app being a live market price, regardless of how it was presented. In my 
view Barclays was entitled to rely on Mr B taking this into account when using its service. As 
it wasnt a live market price, the question as to what it might be, and how useful it might be, if 
not apparent from the screen on the app, was something for Mr B to look into if he decided 
to base his trading decision on that information. Also, as the market was not open, Mr Bs 
order could not be placed at the time he placed it, which is another reason why any price he 
was quoted at that time, however it was derived, could not be relied upon as being what he 
would get, as the actual price would depend on conditions around half an hour in the future.
Its plain that based on the price he saw on screen Mr B expected to receive that price or a 
price very like it. The price difference he experienced wouldve been quite large for the share 
over the course of a day. So one might not expect this sort of difference to occur between 
placing an order and having it carried out, bearing in mind orders can be carried out in 
seconds. So although Mr Bs order didnt guarantee a price, I understand his view that the 
difference in the end was a large difference. But Ive explained why I dont think Barclays is 
at fault for Mr B relying on the screen price in the way he did. The eventual size of the 
difference between the screen price and the price he got, doesnt make a difference to that.
I note in passing that the success Mr B had with his previous trade with Barclays, from the 
figures Barclays sent, appears to have exceeded the extent to which his later trade was 
unsuccessful  and by some margin. So on that basis his decision to trade appears to have 
succeeded overall. But even if that hadnt been the case, it couldnt affect my decision here.
Mr B points out that Barclays has said the price shown on the app was most likely wrong. In 
my view this is only to say that the likelihood of the market opening price exactly matching 
the previous closing price is very low. The price on the app was right for what it represented, 
being the last closing price. As Ive said, the price wasnt a live market price, as the market 
was closed, so the question as to what the price shown represented needed to be answered 
by Mr B if he was going to place reliance on it. Mr B says Barclays was wrong to include the price on the app screen in the way that it did - 
or it ought to have had a strong caveat to warn him about the unreliability of that price. I have 
accepted the price was misleading in isolation and Barclays appears to agree with Mr B that 
the price was not likely to be a very reliable indication of the price he might get. I assume 
that when the market is open the price shown instead is a recent market price, which would 
usually be a better indication how the at best price might turn out. It is not for me to say 
how Barclays ought to format its app. But Ive explained above why I dont think Barclays is 
responsible for the consequences of Mr B being misled by the app.
I note Barclays raised the prospect that Mr B might get his trade reversed if the app wasnt 
clear or had misled him about the price and, as Mr B has pointed out, also sympathised or 
agreed with Mr Bs view that one would think one will receive something similar to whats 
shown on the screen. This doesnt change the views Ive already expressed above. 
Turning to Mr Bs points about service, I note Barclays made Mr B a goodwill offer and what 
he has said about this. With this in mind, I dont find grounds here to award compensation for 
the service Mr B received in the course of Barclays providing him the financial services it 
provided, about which he has complained here. In my view Barclays agreed to look into his 
trade and also explained the workings of its service and what, from its point of view, had 
occurred during Mr Bs trade. I dont find that in doing so Barclays was at fault for not treating 
Mr B with sufficient sympathy or otherwise mistreating him. Barclays appears to have gone 
out of its way to make sure it understood from Mr Bs point of view what occurred with his 
trade, though ultimately there was no meeting of minds. I dont find that Barclays promised 
the trade would be reversed or otherwise acted dishonestly with Mr B. Overall I agree with 
and cant usefully add to what our investigator said about the service issues.
In conclusion, having considered all the points Mr B has raised and in light of all Ive said 
above, Im not persuaded that Barclays needs to pay redress or do more than it already has. 
Im grateful to Mr B for the time he has taken to discuss and explain his points, both in his 
calls and in all he has sent us. I thank him also for his courtesy throughout this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman