DRN-3266774
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about Accelerant Insurance Limiteds 
handling of their buildings insurance claim.
Mr D has brought the complaint on behalf of C. For ease, I will refer to him below.
All references to Accelerant also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The following is a brief summary of the events that led to this complaint. It does not therefore 
include a full timeline or list every point that has been made.
In May 2021 Mr D made a claim for an escape of water at his tenanted property. 
Accelerant offered a settlement for remedial work and around 22 days loss of rent. 
However, it said it wouldnt cover carpets damaged in the property, as they were 
considered contents, and Mr D only held cover for buildings with Accelerant.
Mr D didnt accept Accelerants offer. He said it didnt cover initial work already 
undertaken at the property. And he didnt think the loss of rent payment was 
sufficient, as it didnt take into account how long work took to be completed. Mr D has 
also requested the carpets be covered.
Accelerant requested a copy of an invoice for the work already carried out, and 
details of when work had been completed. It reiterated the policy didnt cover carpets.
Similar issues reoccurred at the property around July 2021, which meant Mr D had to 
initiate a second claim with Accelerant.  
Following a visit to inspect the property, Accelerant asked Mr D to provide evidence 
the remedial works were carried out following the original claim.  
Mr D was unhappy with the progress of his claim and asked Accelerant to provide a 
scope of works and repair costs to be covered. Accelerant said it needed the 
information requested before it was able to confirm the new claim would be accepted.
In August 2021 Accelerant appointed a Surveyor to assess Mr Ds property and 
arrange a Scope of Works. Mr D didnt agree to the Surveyor attending the property 
and raised concerns the loss adjuster who attended in July 2021 had introduced 
himself as a surveyor.
In August 2021, Mr D provided invoices for the emergency repair works completed in 
May 2021 along with confirmation of the end date for remedial work. 
However, Accelerant requested more detail around the specific works that had been 
carried out.
Mr D provided Accelerant with a quote for repair work still required at the property 
and informed Accelerant, he would proceed with them, and hold it liable for the costs, 
if it didnt confirm liability.
Mr D raised a complaint with Accelerant regarding the handling of his claim, delays 
and the service he had received.  
Accelerant provided its final response in August 2021. It didnt agree it had caused 
unreasonable delays and reiterated it was still waiting for Mr D to provide information 
it had requested in order to confirm liability or any settlement for the new claim.  
Mr D didnt agree with Accelerants response. So, he brought his complaint to our 
service.  
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ds complaint be upheld.  In summary he made the 
following points:
Mr D didnt provide further information to support Accelerant increasing its original 
settlement offer until August 2021.
As a further claim had been made, similar to the one raised in May 2021, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Accelerant to request evidence of the remedial work carried out 
before accepting liability.
He wasnt persuaded Accelerant had caused any unreasonable delays.
As there was no evidence of what conversations had taken place during Accelerants 
visit in July 2021, he didnt conclude it had done anything wrong during this visit.
As carpets are generally a contents item, as it can removed, its wasnt unreasonable 
for Accelerant not to cover this under the policy. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view of his complaint.  In doing so he has provided a 
number of points for our service to consider.  I wont list them all here, but I can confirm I 
have read and considered all of them.
What I wont be able to consider
Im aware there are further complaints points Mr D has raised with Accelerant, and our 
service, regarding the claim. But these are being dealt with separately under a different 
complaint reference.  So, if I refer to events following Accelerants final response, provided in 
August 2021, they are purely for contextual purposes only.
Mr D has requested Accelerant be banned from providing insurance policies to local 
authorities. But this service is not a regulator, and we dont have the power to punish 
financial businesses. The role of this service is to look into individual complaints and provide 
an impartial opinion on whether anything has gone wrong.
Mr D has raised issues that relate to the handling of his complaints by Accelerant. 
There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a complaint, 
such as whether the activity complained about is something we can investigate.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
 The ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities. 
Following that is a list of activities that we can investigate.  That means we can only 
investigate Mr Ds complaint if the actions of Accelerant in handling the complaint are a 
regulated or otherwise covered activity. 
That list doesnt include complaint handling. So as the activity isnt one the regulator 
authorises, and it isnt an otherwise covered activity under the rules, Ive not considered the 
issues Mr D has raised about complaint handling in my decisionWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered everything hes said carefully. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues of the complaint. 
I dont intend this as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr D, and by Accelerant, and reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
While I appreciate Accelerant may have asked for more information for the second 
claim, it is entitled to do so. Given the similar nature and length of time between 
claims, its reasonable Accelerant would want to verify whether the initial claim 
damage was rectified. And I dont think it has acted unreasonably in asking for the 
information it has.
I can understand the worry and inconvenience the escapes of water would have 
caused Mr D, and his desire to resolve things quickly. But having looked at the 
communication Accelerant had with Mr D, I think it made clear what it needed to 
proceed with the claim - and why. So, Mr D had the opportunity to progress matters. 
However, I cant see Mr D provided any of this information until August 2021.
I can see Accelerant tried to pro-actively progress matters in some areas  such as 
contacting the local authority to query what repair works had been carried out at the 
property. It also arranged for a surveyor to attend the property with a view to 
providing a scope of works for Mr D, but he refused this. And Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me Accelerant caused any avoidable delays.
Mr D raised concerns that the adjuster who attended in July 2021 introduced himself 
as a surveyor. Accelerant disagrees and says this isnt the case. Its not possible for 
me to say what conversation took place between Mr D and the adjuster, but I havent 
seen anything in the available documentation that suggests the adjuster introduced 
themselves as a surveyor. So, on balance, Im not persuaded they did so. 
A carpet is usually considered an item of contents and I cant see anything in policy 
terms that persuades me that it should be covered. So, I wouldnt expect Accelerant 
to include it in the claim.
Mr D has also mentioned he feels Accelerant have discriminated against him for 
bringing his complaint to our service and other organisations. It isnt the role of this 
service to make a finding about discrimination however I have looked at whether 
Accelerant dealt with Mr Ds claim as I would have expected it to. Having considered 
all the documentation available, I think Accelerant has dealt with the claim in a fair 
and reasonable way. 
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman