DRN-3772287
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as Scottish
Provident) declined her claim.
Mrs B is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions being made
by Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B had an income protection insurance policy in place from 2002. The policy was
underwritten by Scottish Provident and would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period
of 26 weeks if she was unable to work due to illness or injury.
In January 2019 Mrs B had to stop working as a nurse due to an illness. So, she submitted a
claim. Scottish Provident said she wouldnt be eligible to receive any benefit until January
2020 when she stopped earning 50% of her salary.
In the meantime, Scottish Provident began gathering Mrs Bs medical records. They saw
something in Mrs Bs medical history that caused concern, so they investigated a potential
misrepresentation at inception of the policy. Initially, Scottish Provident said theyd be
retroactively adding an exclusion, or Mrs B could cancel the policy and receive a refund of
her premiums which would have left her without cover. Mrs B disputed their position and
Scottish Provident agreed no further action was needed.
Scottish Provident set up an independent assessment and then declined Mrs Bs claim on 23
October 2020. They agreed Mrs Bs consultant was supportive of the claim, but their
independent assessment said Mrs B was only unable to carry out one of their listed work
tasks.
Mrs B appealed. She said the assessor had watched her carry a kettle of water less than five
metres, so she didnt think shed been tested against the criteria for lifting. She said Scottish
Provident were unfairly applying a strict application of their terms and not taking account of
all the supporting evidence about her general health and disability from the GP, occupational
health consultant, and consultant rheumatologist.
She also argued she had taken out the policy on an own occupation basis  not work tasks.
Scottish Provident accepted that the original application was for an own occupation policy,
but they confirmed they didnt offer own occupation income protection policies to nurses in
2002. They said all policy schedules since inception in 2002 said the policy was on a work
tasks basis. And Mrs B was able to cancel if she hadnt wanted to proceed with the cover.
Unhappy with this, Mrs B complained and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator
looked into what had happened. He said Mrs Bs policy application also asked the policy to
be set up on a 52-week basis, but it was put through as 26 weeks. Scottish Provident
accepted that the policy should have been set-up on a 52-week basis and agreed to rework
the policy and refund all the extra premium Mrs B had paid with 8% simple annual interest.
Our investigator went on to consider Scottish Providents decision to decline the claim. He
said whilst the medical evidence shows Mrs B can do tasks with her hands, it would cause
discomfort and restrictions, so he felt it would be fair and reasonable for her claim to still be
considered.
He recommended Scottish Provident pay the claim from January 2020 (which is when the
52-week deferred period would have ended) And add 8% simple interest on that amount
until the date its settled. He also recommended £400 compensation for the worry and
distress caused to Mrs B.
Scottish Provident responded to say they would accept the claim and make payment. But
they argued they should only have to accept it from 1 October 2020 when the independent
assessment took place. They say this is fair because by this point they had the consultants
April 2020 report. Mrs B accepted the view on the outcome on her claim. But she didnt think
the £400 was enough to compensate for the stress and worry this had all caused her over a
number of years.
I reached a provisional decision in September explaining that I was intending to uphold this 
complaint. In summary it said:
The policy inception
Scottish Provident have accepted that the policy should have been set-up on a 52-week
basis and this was their error. Theyve agreed to rework the policy and refund all the extra
premium Mrs B had paid with 8% simple annual interest.
The point of sale documentation from 2002 shows Mrs B also requested an own occupation
policy on her application form. But she was given a work task policy.
Scottish Provident have explained that their underwriters didnt offer own occupation policies
to nurses in 2002. It remains unclear if Mrs B was specifically informed of this back in 2002.
However, Mrs Bs policy documentation following the sale and for the next 20 years all listed
the type of policy as work task, so she ought reasonably have been aware she had cause
to complain about this sooner than she has.
Our rules (the Dispute Resolution Rules known as DISP) say we cant look into complaints
that were made more than six years from the event complained of, or if later, three years
from when the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause
for complaint. Thats unless the business agrees to us looking at the matter or there are
exceptional reasons that prevented a complainant from making a complaint within the time
limit. Its more than six years since the sale of the policy and more than three years from
when Mrs B should reasonably have noticed how the policy was described on her
documentation.
Mrs B has said she only noticed the error recently when she made a claim, which is why she
didnt complain sooner. But she hasnt mentioned any circumstances that wouldve
prevented her complaining sooner than she did, had she been aware she only had work task
policy. So, unless Scottish Provident provides consent, I dont intend to consider this aspect
of the complaint any further.
The claim
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Scottish Provident have agreed to accept this claim on a fair and reasonable basis, outside astrict application of their work tasks terms. They accept Mrs B is unable to complete the
walking task. And whilst the medical evidence shows Mrs B can do lifting and gripping tasks
with her hands, it wouldnt be for long periods and it would cause discomfort and restrictions.
What remains in dispute is the date the claim should be accepted from and the amount of
distress and inconvenience award for Mrs B. So, my decision has focused on these areas.
-Scottish Provident have said there is less supporting medical evidence in 2019 that
Mrs B was unable to perform their listed work tasks, so the claim should be accepted
from 01 October 2020. But for the reasons already agreed, we are considering this
claim under a fair and reasonable remit. And overall, Im persuaded by the medical
evidence that since 2019 walking, lifting and general hand function was causing Mrs
B great discomfort. And she was only able to do these tasks on a very limited basis.
-Mrs B has various different diagnoses that together give her severe functional
restrictions. In the circumstances of this case, its important to take account of all the
supporting evidence about her general health and disability since her absence in
2019.
-In November 2019, after over 30 years as a nurse in the NHS, Mrs B was offered illhealth 
retirement as a result of her increasing disability. In addition, around this time
her application for an ill health pension was also approved.
-The medical evidence shows throughout her absence, all Mrs Bs treating
consultants are consistent in their opinion that Mrs B would struggle to live
independently without the assistance of her husband.
-In March 2020 the consultant rheumatologist recorded that, in his opinion, Mrs Bs
ability to walk, lift and use a pen/keyboard are all with difficulty since 2019. He rated
all areas 4 on a score of 1 to 5. He also recorded her as having substantial
restrictions to lifting, gripping and carrying.
-I agree that by August 2020 the consultant rheumatologists evidence becomes more
persuasive because it is more detailed and Mrs Bs discomfort had increased. He
confirms there had been a deterioration in her general condition since his last report.
And that now, Mrs B isnt even able to lift any weight for any distance. On that basis, I
think its reasonable for us to conclude that Mrs B mustve had difficultly carrying 1kg
for 5 meters before this date.
-So, although the August 2020 report is more detailed, the consultant rheumatologist
had already confirmed in March 2020 that Mrs B had difficulty with lifting and gripping
since 2019 and it caused her discomfort. So Im persuaded on a fair and reasonable
basis, Mrs Bs claim should start from her absence in 2019.
-I also disagree that 1 October 2020 is a fair date to accept the claim because this is
based on the date Scottish Providents Independent Assessment was carried out.
However, despite the pandemic, this couldve been carried out sooner than it was so
I dont think this date would be fair. And, in any event, Im satisfied the medical
evidence from all Mrs Bs treating doctors, taken as a whole, already provided a
picture of someone who could only perform work tasks on a very limited basis and in
great discomfort.
Based on the above, I think in the circumstances of this case it would be fair and reasonable
to start the claim from the date of Mrs Bs absence in January 2019. And a 52-week deferred
period should be applied.Award for compensation
Mrs B has said she thinks the £400 compensation award recommended by our investigator
should be increased to reflect the impact Scottish Providents actions have had on her. I
have carefully considered all her submissions, but I think £400 is fair in the circumstances.
-I agree it took Scottish Provident longer than it shouldve to make a decision on Mrs
Bs case. There are gaps in their progression of the claim and I think they couldve
been more proactive in moving things forward considering Mrs B was only receiving
her pension at this point, and shed let them know she was struggling to pay
premiums whilst she waited for the outcome.
-However, this claim is finely balanced. Mrs B has a complex medical history and, as
already agreed, on a strict application of the policy definitions she doesnt meet the
criteria for work tasks. So I understand why Scottish Provident felt the need to
conduct further investigation on this claim.
-Part of this investigation included looking into a potential misrepresentation at
inception of the policy after they saw something in Mrs Bs medical history that
caused concern. Initially, Scottish Provident said theyd be retroactively adding an
exclusion or Mrs B could cancel the policy and receive a refund of her premiums -
which would have left her without cover. But Mrs B disputed their position and
Scottish Provident agreed no further action was needed. An insurer is entitled to
conduct these investigations upon receipt of medical records so whilst I appreciate it
wouldve been frustrating for Mrs B to defend her position, and worrying she may
lose her cover, I dont think this means Scottish Provident were unreasonable. But I
do agree in this case they could have asked Mrs B for her submissions before saying
they would apply a retrospective exclusion - which caused additional worry.
-Ive also taken into account that at the time of Mrs Bs claim there was a global
pandemic that impacted the health services that were available and their ability to
promptly provide medical records. So any delays in relation to this isnt something I
would hold Scottish Provident accountable for.
Its clear this has been a long and upsetting journey for Mrs B. But as the claim is being
settled on a fair and reasonable basis from the point of Mrs Bs absence, I think overall an
additional £400 compensation is fair to reflect any poor communication and the gaps in
Scottish Providents progression of the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B said she accepted the provisional decision. 
Scottish Provident agreed to what I had provisional decided. They confirmed theyd accept 
the claim from the date of first absence in January 2019 and didnt wish to challenge this 
further. They also confirmed the rework of the policy to show the correct deferment period 
had already been carried out with the refund and interest already issued to Mrs B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my decision and didnt raise any challenge for further 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. Putting things right
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as Scottish Provident) need to 
put things right by:
-Accepting the claim from the date of first absence in January 2019 and backdate benefit
payments from January 2020. In addition, apply 8% simple interest from the date that the 
payments should have been made, up to the date that the claim is settled. 
- Pay £400 compensation for any poor communication and the delays in progressing
the claim to reflect the additional stress and worry this caused Mrs B at an already
difficult time.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited
(trading as Scottish Provident) and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman