DRN-2198610
The complaint
Mr W has complained TSB Bank plc incorrectly managed the complaint he raised about a 
dispute with a supplier.
What happened
Mr W bought a graphic card online in November 2018. When it arrived it was damaged. 
Mr W complained to the seller. He then shared photographs with them showing the damage 
and sent the card back to them. When he got no reply from the merchant (who Ill call E), he 
contacted them. They told him the item didnt fall under the warranty as the serial number 
was missing when the card was returned. E sent this back to Mr W.
Mr W complained to TSB who attempted a chargeback. In accordance with the card scheme 
rules, TSB temporarily credited Mr Ws account with the money for the card. He was told the 
credit couldnt be considered permanent until the end of the chargeback process. Mr W had 
closed his TSB credit card and eventually got TSB to transfer the money to him after the 45-
day period expired.
TSB told Mr W the chargeback had been unsuccessful, even after a second attempt. E had 
challenged the basis for this as they believed Mr W had breached their terms and conditions. 
Theyd also returned the original item to Mr W. They could show confirmation from the postal 
service that this had been delivered. Mr W then ended up with an outstanding debt on his 
credit card which TSB expected him to pay.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service, including a detailed timeline about 
what happened and when. Our investigator didnt believe TSB had done anything wrong as 
they were bound by the chargeback rules. However theyd not kept Mr W informed of what 
was happening and had allowed him to make use to the funds credited whilst the 
chargeback was in process. He asked TSB to pay Mr W £100 in compensation.
Mr W disagreed with this outcome as he felt hed never been in a position to return the 
damaged graphics card based on Es terms and conditions. TSB also disagreed with this 
outcome. They felt theyd done all they could to assist Mr W.
Mr Ws complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different, although not substantial, conclusion to our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W has provided us with two detailed timelines covering what happened. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest this assiduous piece of work cant be relied upon. Im also aware of the detail 
contained in our investigators view of 7 January 2020. This covers some of what happened 
which Im not intending to repeat.
There are two aspects to the dispute: the chargeback and the section 75 aspects. Ill deal 
with the chargeback issues first.
Chargeback
The chargeback rules are managed by the relevant international card schemes. Theyre not 
a guarantee of a refund. But these rules can offer customers whove bought something 
which turns out to be faulty a simple and effective way of being reimbursed. As long as they 
made the purchase using their debit or credit card, they can ask their card issuer to assist. 
There are timelines and rules governing what a card issuer can and cannot do depending on 
the response provided by the merchant (in this case E).
From reviewing this complaint I can see TSB started the chargeback process. They made it 
clear to Mr W that the credit to his account was temporary. E successfully defended the 
chargeback. They provided evidence to TSB that Mr W had breached their terms and 
conditions and they believed theyd successfully returned the damaged item to Mr W.
But Mr W was able to transfer the money hed been credited elsewhere after the 45-day 
period came to an end. TSB didnt tell him they were having ongoing discussions with Es 
merchant acquirer and were still pursuing what had gone wrong.  
TSB believes theyve done all they could to get a refund for Mr W of the disputed payment. 
They didnt think it was fair to expect them to pay compensation just because his chargeback 
claim was unsuccessful. They stated: some of the processes we have to follow, including 
the Section 75 claim have timescales we need to adhere to and are dependent on how 
quickly the merchant responds to TSB....it would be impossible for us to keep every 
customer updated with their disputes given the volumes we deal with, so it remains the 
customers responsibility to ask for any updates when required. I appreciate [Mr W] will be 
disappointed we werent successful in obtaining a refund for him.
I think the key here is that Mr W was able to transfer the money hed been re-credited. From 
what Ive seen of Mr W, its clear he was keeping a careful eye on when the 45-day period 
came to an end. He believed  and theres nothing to show TSB challenged this  that if the 
money was still in his account, it was to all intents and purposes his. Im not surprised by this 
conclusion.  
Ive also seen that Mr W removed the money and more than likely used this to buy a 
replacement graphics card. This has left his closed credit card account with a shortfall which 
TSB is expecting him to repay (along with associated additional charges which I believe has 
increased the amount).I dont think Id expect TSB to be keeping Mr W advised of the status of his dispute the whole 
time. But I do wonder why they didnt tell him theyd gone beyond the first dispute process as 
this did mean the temporary period for the refund had not expired. I cant see how Mr W 
would have known this without TSB confirming this situation. So overall I think TSB could 
have done more here.
Section 75
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr W used his 
TSB credit card to pay for a graphic card. 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding TSBs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. We certainly consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide 
cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im 
deciding is whether TSB did enough in considering Mr Ws complaint. And if they didnt, what 
else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask TSB to put things right. 
Under existing legislation Mr W has a right to expect goods delivered to him to be in a 
serviceable condition. Ive reviewed the photographs Mr W shared with us (and E). I dont 
think his purchase arrived in a condition Id expect. This means that he has a right to return 
the goods. Having reviewed Es conditions these state Items should be made available for 
collection or returned in their original packaging complete with all accessories and 
documentation. Once we have verified the fault, we'll issue a replacement or full refund to 
you via your original payment method. If you have declined to use our free collection service 
by means to return the Product, we will reimburse you for reasonably return carriage costs.
Ive reviewed Es return policy  which knowing Mr Ws detailed approach, I am sure he was 
aware of as he seemed to follow their guidance. E believes the serial number  which wasnt 
attached to the card itself  was missing when the item was returned to them. Ive reviewed 
Es advice about the location of the serial number to this specific product. If I believed the 
original damage caused to the item would have made it impossible for Mr W to return the 
goods with the serial number, then I would have believed Mr W had suffered a breach of 
contract.  
But I dont think this is the case here. From Mr Ws own photographic evidence the damaged 
card was originally enclosed within a plastic cover and I can see all the pieces were located, 
so Im surprised the serial number was no longer on the packaging. This suggests it may 
have been removed.
Ive also noted that Mr W believes the graphics card was never successfully returned to him 
by E. But the postal evidence indicates the opposite is true and I cant ignore that.
I appreciate Mr W will take a different view to my conclusion. Overall I dont believe TSB did 
anything wrong in rejecting his section 75 complaint based on the evidence Ive seen.
Putting things right
Ive decided that TSB were right to reject Mr Ws chargeback and section 75 claim as the 
evidence points to them always going to be unsuccessful.However I do believe TSB could have done more. Our investigator believed TSB should pay 
Mr W £100 in compensation. Im increasing this to £250. Im doing this because theres been 
a considerable impact of TSB not contacting Mr W to let him know the chargeback issue 
remained unresolved. The debt TSB has been asking Mr W to repay has increased. Charges 
for interest and non-payment have been added to the original amount.
From looking at what Mr W did, I believe if TSB had updated Mr W, hed not have removed 
the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr W £250 for 
the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman