DRN-2889947
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited used technology inappropriately after she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy and didnt keep her informed of developments. 
Mrs G is represented by her son, Mr G. 
What happened
Mrs G called Ageas to report an accident on 15 October 2020. During the call she wasnt 
told that documents would be stored in Ageass online portal. She was asked to send 
images of the car to Ageas using a mobile application (an app). Mrs G didnt have a smart 
phone, so using the app wasnt an option for her. Mr G and his son offered to help with the 
app, but had to desist, due to adverse weather conditions at the time. Ageas then offered 
Mrs G the option of sending it images by email. She and Mr G thought Ageas hadnt 
considered her age in asking her to use a system that relied on new technology. 
Ageas accepted that its advisor hadnt mentioned the portal to Mrs G. It apologised and said 
feedback had been provided. And it pointed out that it had offered Mrs G an alternative to 
the app. Ageas didnt accept that Mrs G wasnt kept informed of developments, although it 
agreed that it hadnt told her when the claim was closed.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint. He said Ageas was entitled to decide  
what processes to use and he thought it was reasonable that it had offered Mrs G an 
alternative to the app. He said it wasnt usual for insurers to notify a consumer that a claim 
had been closed. In his opinion, it seemed Mrs G and / or Mr G were updated, as Ageass 
messages seemed to have been acted on. He didnt think Ageass process had impacted 
significantly on Mrs G or her claim or that its service was poor. 
Mr G said the text messages Ageas said it had sent werent received. He sent us copies of 
some of his phone records as evidence of that. He said in order to have received Ageass 
texts, hed have had to sign in to a portal he didnt know about. Mr G said Ageas shouldnt 
have invested in a technology-based system and directed it to elderly and vulnerable policy 
holders who were unlikely to have access to the relevant technology. He didnt think Ageas 
was treating its customers fairly with a one size fits all approach. In his opinion, a claims 
handler should have recognised Mrs Gs situation and checked with her that all was well. 
As there was no agreement, Mrs Gs complaint was passed to me for review.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant tell an insurer how to run its business, and I think that many of the points Mr G has 
made on behalf of Mrs G relate to Ageass systems and its general approach to consumers 
who make a claim. As the investigator has pointed out, general concerns about such issues 
are a matter for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.  
Ageas accepted that its advisor made an error in not telling Mrs G what the portal was  but I 
dont think theres evidence to show that not knowing about it had a significant impact on 
her. So I think Ageass apology (plus it giving feedback to the relevant advisor) was a 
reasonable way to deal with the issue. I also think it acted reasonably in agreeing to look at 
whether it should inform consumers about claims being closed (as part of its continuous 
improvement programme). I dont think Mrs G has shown that she lost out in some way as a 
result of not being made aware of the case closure.
 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Ageas to ask Mrs G to use the app initially. I think many 
older consumers would have been able to do so, either directly, or through a relative or 
friend. And in my opinion, a process that not all consumers can use isnt unfair - as long as a 
suitable alternative option is available. In this case, the photos of Mrs Gs car were accepted 
by Ageas through email on the same day she was asked to use the app. So there was no 
delay in the process. I dont think theres anything to show that not being able to use the app 
had a significant impact on Mrs G or her claim.
In terms of poor contact on Ageass part, the evidence it provided shows the text messages 
it says were sent on 15 October 2020.The initial texts gave links that allowed Mr G and his 
son to try to assist with the app, so they must have been received. Two further text message 
were sent very shortly afterwards, one with the email address where images of the car 
should be sent (which was used) and one giving the address of  Ageass approved repairer. 
Mrs G and Mr G contacted Ageas the next day to say theyd be looking for an alternative 
garage, so it appears that they also got that message. None of the texts are shown in the 
copies of received texts Mr G has sent us, as the records he sent start on the following day. 
Ageass records show that it sent Mr G a further text on 21 October 2020 saying that it had 
authorised Mrs Gs chosen garage to repair her car. This text doesnt appear in Mr Gs 
records - but only an hour later, Mrs G emailed the garage to say she was pleased that the 
repairs had been approved. So I think the evidence shows that she was kept informed of 
Ageass decision by some means. Mrs Gs garage was then responsible for updating her.  
Mr G says had Ageas made adequate contact, there would have been no reason for Mrs G 
to complain. But the evidence seems to show there was sufficient contact from Ageas, even 
if some emails werent replied to, as Mrs G says is the case. Whats clear is that, having 
seen the images of the car, Ageas authorised Mrs Gs chosen garage quickly, and advised 
her about it. The repairs were paid for by Ageas in under four weeks. Although I understand 
why Mrs G was upset by aspects of the claims experience, as I dont think theres evidence 
that Ageas did anything substantially wrong, I cant uphold her complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman