DRN-4250612
The complaint
Mr S complained because Vanquis Bank Limited refused to refund him for withdrawals on 
his credit card, which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Late on 29 June 2022, Mr S went onto his app to pay part of his Vanquis account, and saw 
transactions which he didnt recognise. He rang Vanquis, and the adviser blocked his card, 
and told him hed need to ring again the next day.
The next day, Mr S rang Vanquis and said that there were transactions on his card which he 
didnt recognised. The adviser said that two transactions for £400 and £100 had been 
declined anyway. This was before shed asked Mr S which transactions he disputed. Mr S 
said no, it was more than that, but he could no longer get into the app to see them. 
The adviser then suggested that Mr S should go paperless, and talked about helping 
banking to become a more environmentally friendly business. Mr S said he wasnt worried 
about that at the moment, he was worried about all the transactions on his card. 
The adviser told Mr S that the reason he couldnt access the app was because hed reported 
his card lost or stolen. Mr S said he hadnt reported his card lost or stolen and he still had the 
card. The adviser again repeated that the two transactions had been blocked anyway.  
As Mr S couldnt get into the app, he didnt have access to what hed seen on the app the 
night before. He said from what he remembered seeing the night before, there was over 
£1,000, not just two transactions. He asked if he should come back when he was able to get 
into the app, but the adviser repeated that hed reported his card lost, which was why he 
couldnt get into the app.
At that point, the adviser then started to go through the individual transactions with Mr S. The 
list eventually recorded as disputed was for nine transactions:
- On 17 June, three cash withdrawals for £10, £200 and £200;
- On 19 June, a payment to a sports retailer for £73.50;
- On 27 June, three cash withdrawals for £100, £200 and £100;
- On 28 June, a cash withdrawal for £100 and a payment to the same sports retailer 
for £136.50. 
With fees for cash advances, the total was £1,150.
The adviser asked for Mr Ss password saying shed then transfer him to the fraud 
department to raise as a claim. Mr S struggled to provide the password, but the adviser got 
Mr S through security using other questions. She said Mr S had reported the card lost, but 
he said no, he hadnt and he still had the card. The card had been marked as lost  because 
hed phoned the night before, even though he still had the card. After passing security 
another way, the adviser changed Mr Ss password, and she told him to write it down. This is 
not good practice.
Mr S was then put through to customer services. The first adviser passed him through, 
telling the second adviser hed reported his card lost. The second adviser asked if anyone 
else had access to the card, and when Mr S said no, said that the disputed transactions had 
been made using Mr Ss card and PIN. But Mr S said it wasnt him. 
The customer services adviser said that a £10 genuine transaction on 15 June had used 
exactly the same cash machine as some of the disputed ones. Mr S said £10 was about the 
amount he took out, and he never took out large amounts of cash. This adviser told Mr S 
that the town on the list of 27 June transactions was where a head office was. The adviser 
also explained that there had been some declined as well as the ones which had gone 
through, and that they had all been done by chip and PIN.
The adviser went through a number of questions, including whether Mr S could have used 
his Vanquis card in error instead of a bank card. She asked how many people lived in his 
household. Mr S said he lived alone, and no-one else had access to the card, and he hadnt 
let anyone else use it. He said he hadnt written down or stored the PIN number, or told 
anyone. Mr S asked how much had been taken, and asked for a statement so he could see 
the transactions, as his app no longer worked. The adviser said that interest on the disputed 
transactions would be frozen during the claim assessment. She said shed send him a 
statement, and the amount Mr S had disputed was £636.50. Mr S said it was very stressful 
and asked when hed be able to get into the app again so he could pay. The adviser said this 
would be when the new card arrived.
The amount in dispute from the transactions was in fact £1,150, not £636.50.
On 18 August, Vanquis wrote to Mr S. It said that it couldnt see how the disputed 
transactions could have been made by a third party, on the balance of probabilities. It said 
the transactions followed the usual pattern of spend on the account, and there had been 
previous transactions at one of the supermarkets where cash had been withdrawn. It pointed 
out that Mr Ss card with its chip, and the correct PIN, had been used to verify the 
transactions. And Mr S had said that he still had the card, and he didnt think it would have 
been possible for anyone to have taken the card and returned it to him.
In Vanquis final response to Mr S on 16 September, it apologised for having got the amount 
wrong in one of the phone calls. But it didnt change its decision about the outcome. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said he believed his card had been 
cloned, with someone inserting a skimming device into the cash machine hed used on 15 
June. Hed been to an advice service, which had told him it was harder to do this with cards 
with chips, but not impossible. The advice service had shown him videos of how this was 
done. Mr S said it wasnt the pattern of spend on his account to withdraw three transactions 
in a day, and some of the locations were over 60 miles away. He said that previously, 
Vanquis had sent him a text when hed spent £8 at a shop he hadnt used before, so he 
thought Vanquis should have done that when there had been three large withdrawals in a 
day.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that the transactions were 
authenticated using chip and PIN, and the chip was unique and couldnt be cloned. So 
whoever did the transactions had the genuine card and knew the PIN. So it was likely to 
have been Mr S who made the transactions.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he still didnt know when the card had been used, including times 
and dates, and when it had been declined. Mr S was offended by the investigator thinking 
hed had something to do with it. He said Vanquis should have flagged the transactions on 
17 June, when they were done in a completely different fashion from what he normally did. He said that if Vanquis had sent security alerts on the first transaction, hed only have lost 
£410. He believed Vanquis should pay him the other £740 because of its security lapses in 
not sending him warnings.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator in relation to customer service, but the same conclusion about 
the disputed transactions. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity to 
comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulations
In the provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions, and the relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Vanquis) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Vanquis has sent the evidence which 
shows that Mr Ss genuine card was used. Eight of the nine withdrawals were made using 
the genuine card, with its chip, and Mr Ss correct PIN. The other, the £73.50 payment, was 
made using Mr Ss card contactless.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them.
Who authorised the disputed transactions?
Mr S told us that the advice service said that cards with a chip in them can be cloned. 
Cloning only takes a sort of photo of the card, and cloned cards have been used for things 
like telephone or online transactions where the actual card isnt presented. But cloned cards 
wont work where a card is physically presented  for example in a cash machine  because 
the chip is read. Chip technology is complex and sophisticated and there have been no 
known instances when the chip in the card has been successfully copied. So, if a cash 
machine reads the chip in the card and its a cloned card, the transaction will be rejected. Its 
not generally thought possible to copy the Chip on a card, and our service hasnt come 
across any cases where we felt this was a likely explanation of what happened. 
The computer evidence showed that the genuine card was used for the transactions, and 
also that the correct PIN was used for the eight chip and PIN transactions.    
I looked at the spacing between the disputed transactions. On 17 June, the first  £10 
transaction took place at 15:25, and the next two at 17:53 and 17.54. There were then no 
further transactions until 19 June, when there was the contactless payment to the sports 
retailer at 16:45. Over a week later on 27 June, the other disputed transactions started. The  
location where these other transactions took place was listed as a different town, both on Mr 
Ss statements and on the authentication evidence which Vanquis supplied to us. So I wasnt 
persuaded that it was correct, as one of Vanquiss advisers told Mr S, that this was just a 
head office address. On 27 June, there were three more cash withdrawals in quick 
succession: 18:19, 18:20 and 18:21. Finally on 28 June there was the £100 case withdrawal 
at 12:35 and the £136.50 to the sports retailer at 12:55. All of these 27 and 28 June 
payments were made using Mr Ss genuine card and correct PIN.Typically, a fraudster would make withdrawals as quickly as possible.  The transactions here 
were close together on the days when they happened, but then there were time gaps before 
the next day on which there are disputed transactions. This isnt typical of a normal fraudster 
pattern. It might well be that someone close to Mr S had occasional opportunities to access 
to his card, and knew his PIN. But that wasnt what Mr S had said. On Vanquiss forms, he 
said hed shredded the original PIN notification, had never written down his PIN, and it 
wasnt stored with his card. Mr S told Vanquis that he lived alone, and no-one else had 
access to his card. He also still had his card. 
The pattern of transactions isnt that of a fraudster unknown to Mr S, because of the days 
when no money was taken. There were also some genuine transactions between the two 
batches of transactions. I dont think any fraudster unknown to Mr S could have made the 
first set of transactions, somehow returned his card to him, then stolen it again before the 
second set. Nor could I see why any third party fraudster unknown to Mr S would try to 
return the card in between.
I did, however, think its quite likely that this pattern might indicate someone who 
had regular access to Mr S, such as a family member, friend or helper. They could have 
seized an opportunity and would have had access to return the card then steal it again, 
which would mean it was longer until Mr S found out. If thats what happened here, the 
person would still have had to have known Mr Ss PIN, as well as having access to the card. 
That could mean that Mr S had written it down, or mentioned it to the person, or by it being a 
number which a third party close to Mr S could easily have guessed. I recognise this is 
distressing for Mr S, but in any of these circumstances, Mr S would still be liable for the 
payments, because cards and security details need to be kept secure in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. The only other option, given the use of the genuine card and 
correct PIN, is that Mr S did carry out the transactions himself.
Mr S believes that Vanquis should have sent him warning messages after the transactions 
on 17 June. I looked at Mr Ss account to see whether the transactions were out of 
character. They were unusual in amount, as Mr Ss statement for the previous month didnt 
show any payments for more than £30. So £410 cash in a day was definitely unusual. 
However, the majority of Mr Ss payments were at the same supermarket, usually at a few 
branches within reach of his address.  And apart from the sports retailer, where the amount 
was lower, the cash withdrawals at the other town, a significant distance from his home, 
were also at the same supermarket.
But although the payments were unusual for Mr S,  the payments didnt match fraud patterns 
(for example in relation to the gaps between transactions) as Ive set out. A fraud system is 
one thats used for an entire customer base. It can take into account broad principles to 
create an algorithm, but wont be able to consider many things  such as factoring in that an 
individual customer might not travel as much and wouldnt normally transact outside a 
particular area. So I couldnt say that the banks fraud system should have been triggered 
here.
Customer service
Vanquis wasnt able to provide us with the call when Mr S first reported the dispute, but I 
listened to the call recordings for 30 June. There were two advisers on this call, with the first 
one passing Mr S over to the second one in the customer service team.
I considered that the customer service in the call between Mr S and the first adviser was 
poor. Mr S was clearly worried. But the adviser didnt respond to this anxiety kindly, and 
although she did much later say calm down this was said as an instruction, and not with any sympathy. Importantly, she also didnt deal with the content efficiently. She didnt start 
by asking which transactions he disputed, but by saying that two transactions had been 
declined, which she repeated several times. 
I found it was very poor service at this point then to focus on trying to get Mr S to go 
paperless in the interests of the banks sustainability. That really wasnt Mr Ss priority at that 
point. 
The adviser also gave Mr S incorrect information. Mr S found it very difficult to identify which 
transactions werent his, because he could no longer get into the app to see them. The 
adviser wasnt patient with this, and it was a while before she went through the transactions 
individually. Instead, she gave him incorrect information that his app had been blocked 
because the previous day hed reported his card as lost or stolen. In fact Mr S still had his 
card, as he tried to point out. I asked Vanquis why his app had been blocked, because 
although a card used fraudulently should be blocked, I didnt think the app should also have 
been blocked for reporting disputed transactions.  Vanquis said that it hadnt been blocked 
because hed reported disputed transactions, but it might have happened either because a 
new card had been ordered, or because of occasional problems which all users were 
experiencing at that time. Whichever of these it was, the advisers explanation wasnt 
correct.
Finally, after Mr S had struggled to pass security, the adviser asked him what he wanted his 
new password to be. He gave her a password, and the adviser said Write it down please so 
you dont forget and Mr S said yes, he would. Passwords should not be written down, and I 
find it very surprising that she instructed him to do so. 
The second adviser was more competent than the first, but as Ive set out above, she 
incorrectly told him that the location for the 27 and 28 June transactions was a head office. 
She also incorrectly recorded the dispute as £636.50, when it was for £1,150.
So I found that Vanquis customer service towards Mr S was poor. I therefore considered 
that Vanquis should pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Vanquis accepted the provisional decision. It said it had no further comment to make, and it 
agreed that compensation of £150.00 would be fair, given the shortcomings evident from the 
calls on 30 June 2022.
Mr S sent a very long and detailed submission disagreeing with the provisional decision. In 
summary, Mr S said that:
- I appeared not to have read or considered his submissions. He said that on proper 
application of the relevant law, regulations, and guidance, I was required to uphold 
his complaint in full because there was no other credible interpretation of the law and 
regulations;
- if someone such as a family member, friend or helped had carried out the 
transactions, he wouldnt be liable because the card was a credit card;
- Id claimed that the transactions were completed using chip and PIN, but the banks 
evidence on this hadnt been provided to him. He said that chip and PIN wasnt 
sufficient evidence to show hed completed the transactions so I must uphold his 
complaint;
- he didnt agree with my statements that there were no known cases where the chip in 
the card had been successfully copied. He said hed provided links to articles about 
cloning, and re-sent links to these;- he didnt agree that the gap between the transactions meant it wasnt likely to be third 
party fraudsters. He said that just because the pattern didnt fit with your cut and 
paste pattern.. from previous case decisions of FOS, it didnt mean that fraudsters 
hadnt completed them. He said it wasnt for him to prove that criminals completed 
the transactions but for the bank to prove hed completed them;
- he didnt agree that Vanquis systems werent at fault for not picking up the 
transactions and notifying Mr S immediately they were attempted;
- he sent a list of points where he said Vanquis was a total shambles and lacks any 
credibility. So he said I couldnt rely on any information provided by Vanquis.
- Mr S concluded by saying that the role of the Financial Ombudsman is to apply the 
relevant laws, regulations, and guidance. He said it wasnt for me to decide what I 
personally consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances, irrespective of the laws 
of England and Wales.
-
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood all of those 
and considered all hes said and sent us, but in reaching my decision here Ive focused on 
what I think is vital to my conclusions. Id also point out that this service is a quick and 
informal alternative to the legal process in terms of disputes with financial businesses. We 
can decide what information is enough to carry out an investigation and get to the right 
answer. So I have not pursued all the matters which Mr S raises here, where I dont think 
thats necessary in order to reach a balanced and impartial decision on the crux of the 
complaint here.
The remit of this service is to be an informal and free alternative to the courts. We have a 
duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. Taking an approach which is based on whats fair and 
reasonable involves considering all relevant circumstances, and on the evidence available, 
reaching a decision about whats more likely than not to have happened. If Mr S rejects this 
services decision, he is free to pursue his dispute in other ways, such as through the courts.
A bank isnt required to provide a customer with its technical computer evidence which 
shows how payments were carried out. And here, there were other factors as well as the 
technical evidence of the genuine card having been used, and the correct PIN input. Mr S 
said that hed shredded the original PIN notification, had never written down the PIN, and it 
wasnt stored with his card. He said no-one else had access to his card, which he still had. 
This, and the pattern of transactions, including some undisputed transactions between the 
disputed transactions, makes it very unlikely that the disputed transactions were carried out 
by anyone other than Mr S himself. In my provisional decision, for completeness I 
considered the three possibilities for what might have happened  that a third party fraudster 
unknown to Mr S carried out the transactions; that someone known to Mr S, with frequent 
but irregular access to his card and security details carried out the transactions;  or that he 
did so himself. Ive re-considered the evidence and I still find that the most likely explanation 
is that Mr S carried out the transactions himself. So Vanquis doesnt have to refund him. 
I have carefully considered Mr Ss objections to the provisional decision, but I am not 
persuaded by them. So I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part:- I do not uphold Mr Ss request for a refund for the disputed transactions;
- I order Vanquis Bank Limited to pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him by its poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman