DRN-1911950
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society hasnt helped him recover £599 after he 
was overcharged for a kebab.
  
What happened
Mr M was on a night out and went to a takeaway restaurant to buy a kebab. He was meant 
to pay £5.99 for it and he authorised a transaction using his debit card and by way of chip 
and PIN. But after returning home Mr M realised hed been charged £599.
Mr M tried to resolve things with the merchant but was unable to get them to cooperate. He 
contacted Nationwide to raise a dispute, framing the matter as an issue of fraud. He felt that 
the takeaway staff had deliberately overcharged him.
Nationwide looked into what had happened and said it wouldnt be able to refund Mr M the 
money. It said hed authorised the transaction and so, regardless of being overcharged, it 
couldnt recover the money for him.
Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides response and so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of out investigators considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She felt 
Nationwide ought to have raised a chargeback on Mr Ms behalf and pointed to the fact there 
was a specific chargeback dispute reason for incorrect amount. She felt there was a strong 
chance the restaurant staff had simply entered the amount incorrectly and that a chargeback 
would have been successful.   
Our investigator said Nationwide should refund Mr M the difference between what he was 
charged and the legitimate cost of the kebab. She also recommended a payment of £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by Nationwide. She noted the money represented a 
significant portion of Mr Ms account balance that hed been saving up a long time. And she 
acknowledged the lack of assistance from Nationwide had impacted Mr M emotionally. 
Nationwide disagreed. It maintained that as the transaction was chip and PIN authorised it 
were unable to raise a chargeback. It also said it offered further assistance to Mr M, saying 
he could contact the fraud team, but he didnt pursue the matter further. The complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.
Theres no dispute as to whether Mr M authorised the transaction. For the purposes of the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 he did. And so Nationwide was right to debit his account 
at the time. But there will often be problems with properly authorised transactions that debit a 
customers account, with disputes then being raised.
Card schemes have dispute rules in place so that customers and merchants have a way of 
settling problems with transactions. The dispute resolution method is known as a 
chargeback. When a customer raises a dispute, a firm like Nationwide should consider the 
nature of the claim and think about whether a chargeback ought to be raised. A chargeback 
isnt an automatic customer right and isnt enshrined in law. Nor is it guaranteed to succeed. 
But it is best practice for a firm to raise one where theres a reasonable prospect of it 
succeeding. Im persuaded such a prospect was present here and so Mr M has been 
disadvantaged through Nationwides decision to not raise one.
Im satisfied the incorrect amount dispute reason fits the scenario Mr M described to 
Nationwide. It might be that he articulated the complaint as one of fraud. But Nationwide is 
the expert here and ought to have thought about how it could assist Mr M. Common sense 
says that it cannot be right that Mr M was meant to pay £599 for a kebab and that there must 
have been an error when the amount was entered.
Nationwide has argued that as the payment was chip and PIN verified it couldnt use this 
dispute reason. It says Mr M agreed to pay whatever was displayed on the PIN entry device. 
But Im not persuaded thats the case. Such a provision does not exist, for example, in the 
merchants guide for responding to a chargeback or how to prevent such a dispute under the 
reason code of incorrect amount. And I dont find that the merchant could have simply 
presented a receipt for the transaction to successfully defend the chargeback. Had it 
attempted to do so I would have expected Nationwide to take the case to arbitration if 
necessary.
Nationwide has also said Mr M didnt continue to pursue the matter with it. I dont find this 
alters the outcome. Mr M had been offered little reason or encouragement from Nationwide 
that might have suggested continuing with the matter with it would lead to a different 
outcome. And so I find it was fair and reasonable for him to pursue his complaint through this 
service instead, even if that meant the expiry of the deadline a chargeback had to be raised 
by.   
Putting things right
Nationwide ought to have raised a chargeback for Mr M and Im persuaded it would have 
been successful. I believe this matter has been unnecessarily drawn out for Mr M and he 
has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result. With these points in mind in direct 
Nationwide to:
refund Mr M the difference between what he was charged and what he ought to have 
been charged - £593.01; and
pay Mr M £200 in compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society and direct it to pay the 
settlement as Ive set it out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman