DRN-1143691
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr and Mrs R say The Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2005 Mr and Mrs R took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Co-Op say 
PPI was sold during a phone call. And the policy was set up in Mr Rs name only.
The policy provided unemployment cover only in the event Mr R lost his job. It would pay out 
a monthly benefit of £2,000 for up to 12 months per claim and it cost a little under £50 a 
month.
At the time Mr and Mrs R were both employed and they say they were both entitled to sick 
pay of six months full pay followed by six months half-pay. Mr and Mrs R said they also had 
substantial savings  albeit theyve not elaborated on this  and they said they were in good 
health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
indicated Mr and Mrs R chose to take out PPI. And there was nothing to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate for them.
Mr and Mrs R, through their representative disagree. In summary, they say Mr R had 
generous sick pay and the policy only paid out for 12 months.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done so and carefully considered what both parties have provided about this dispute, 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Co-Op made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out. Co-Op has provided copies of the paperwork from the time. 
Looking at this I can see that Mr and Mrs R signed a separate PPI application form; 
they signed a separate direct debit to take the PPI premiums from their bank 
account; and their mortgage offer described the PPI as 'Optional.'
Im mindful too that the policy was taken out in Mr Rs sole name. And the policy was only set up to provide unemployment cover. This suggests to me some choices about 
the cover were made at the time.
So while Co-Op no longer has a call recording of the phone sale - perhaps not 
surprising given how long things happened - in light of the evidence that is available I 
think Mr and Mrs R understood they had a choice about PPI and they agreed to take it 
out without undue pressure.
Co-Op recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
The confirmation letter Mr and Mrs R were sent about the PPI recommended to them 
recorded that they felt Mr R had sufficient sick pay, but a need for unemployment 
cover was identified. I can see here too that the adviser recorded that Mrs R had 
sufficient existing cover - hence the recommendation that only Mr R take out PPI.
I also think its worthy of note that the adviser recorded Mr and Mrs R wanted to 
increase the cover from just protecting the mortgage amount to covering their monthly 
household bills too taking the overall monthly benefit to £2,000. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs Rs representative said about them having 
significant savings. But Mr and Mrs R havent given us more details about this. And in 
light of what I noted above that the adviser recorded from the time, Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs R did have significant savings or savings that they wanted to rely on to 
help them out if things went wrong. I dont see why Mr and Mrs R wouldve requested 
extra cover if they did.
I accept its possible the information Co-Op gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
 
So in light of the above, I think PPI was ultimately suitable for Mr and Mrs R. And I dont 
think theyve lost out a result of anything Co-Op might have done wrong when it sold them 
PPI. This means Co-Op doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
R.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R (and their representative) have said - including 
what theyve said about Mr Rs sick pay and how long the PPI paid out for. But these points 
dont change my decision. Because Mr and Mrs R only took out unemployment cover, Mr Rs 
sick pay isnt an important consideration in this case.
I accept the PPI would only pay out for 12 months upon a successful claim. And I accept Mr 
and Mrs R might not have been made clearly aware of this limit to the cover. 
But Im not persuaded they had existing means to the extent that if Mr R was made 
unemployed they wouldve been able to manage their mortgage payments without coming 
under financial pressure. So I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs decision to take out PPI wouldve 
been any different had Co-Op done anything more.My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs R complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman