DRN-3177978
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by post. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Mr Ms credit card application had a section for optional extras, one of which was PPI. There 
were two options to choose from: one to buy the policy, and one to turn it down. Neither 
were pre-selected. The option to buy PPI was then ticked, the option to turn it down was left 
blank, and Mr M signed the form to confirm his choices. He did this by post, in his own time 
and without any potential pressure from a salesperson. So I think that Capital One made it 
clear Mr M didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  though I can understand 
why he might not remember this anymore after so long.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. 
Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr M chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and hes not told us about any 
significant alternative cover. So the policy could have really been useful for Mr M in case 
something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr M could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking it out. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Capital One didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Capital One has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
That means Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr M 
8%* simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I do 
not award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman