DRN-4001152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about their mortgage with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Halifax. They are unhappy that, in August 2022, just before their fixed interest rate product 
ended, they received two letters from Halifax, the first telling them that their mortgage would 
revert to Standard Variable Rate (SVR) from1 September 2022 and their payment would be 
approximately £1,313, followed a few days later by another saying their monthly payment 
would be £1,242. 
However, Halifax charged them the higher amount, and when challenged, the bank said that 
the letter with the lower figure had been sent first, following which SVR had increased, 
resulting in the letter with the higher figure.
Mr and Mrs O do not accept this and say they want to pay the lower amount. Mr O says it 
caused him to be upset because it appeared he had been dishonest with Mrs O about the 
cost of the mortgage. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs O want Halifax to refund the difference between the two 
repayment figures, arrange for their monthly repayment to be £1,242 and pay them £100 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs O also have also complained about not being able to make a complaint online 
and want £50 compensation for this.
What happened
The history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so there is no need for me to 
repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In 
addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs O being identified. I have also rounded the figures for clarity.
Our investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She explained that two letters had been sent, both simply dated August 2022. The 
first letter Halifax had sent explained that the mortgage would be reverting to SVR of 4.74% 
and the monthly repayment would be £1,242 from 1 September 2022. This letter had been 
generated and sent on 1 August 2022. 
The second letter was generated and posted on 6 August 2022 and said that the SVR was 
5.24%  an increase of 0.5%  and the monthly payment would be £1,313.
Unfortunately the letters were delivered out of order, but this didnt mean that Halifax had 
charged the incorrect amount.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept this. Mr O, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says 
that he has no question about the changing of the rates from fixed to variable, but its about 
the arrival of the letters which led them to believe that SVR had gone down. Mr O also 
reiterated that he wanted a payment for distress and inconvenience because he couldnt 
make his complaint online.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that, after Halifax sent out the first letter on 1 August 2022 stating the payment 
would be £1,242 on SVR of 4.74%, on 4 August 2022 Bank of England Base Rate increased 
by 0.5%, from 1.25% to 1.75%. As a result, Halifax increased the interest rate on its SVR by 
0.5%. This resulted in the second letter sent on 6 August 2022, informing Mr and Mrs O that 
SVR would be 5.24% and their new repayment would be £1,313.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs O were confused  both letters were simply dated 
August 2022 with no specified day. But there was widespread news coverage about the 
increase in Bank of England Base Rate and the implications for this on mortgage interest 
rates in the mainstream press and on TV news at the time. So I think its unrealistic, given 
this publicity, that Mr and Mrs O would have thought their mortgage repayments were going 
to decrease from the figure theyd first been told.
The real issue in this complaint is that Mr and Mrs O received the two letters a few days 
apart, with the first letter being delivered after the second letter. Thats not something for 
which I can hold Halifax responsible  delivery of letters is the responsibility of Royal Mail. If 
Mr and Mrs O are having problems with their mail, theyll need to take that up with their local 
sorting office.
Ive noted what Mr O has said about his dissatisfaction with Halifaxs complaints process. 
However, I can only consider complaints about regulated activities, or activities that are 
ancillary to regulated activities  and complaint-handling doesnt fall into either of those 
categories. This means that I dont have any power to look at a complaint about Halifaxs 
complaints process.
Overall, Im unable to find Halifax has done anything wrong here. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O 
want their mortgage repayments reduced. If theyve not already done so, they are free to 
look at applying for a new fixed interest rate product with Halifax from its current product 
range.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman