DRN-2980340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has administered their 
private medical insurance policy as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have held an Essential Care personal private medical insurance policy for a 
number of years. Their policy renewed on 1 April 2020 and was due to end on 31 March 
2021. The policy includes cover for Mr and Mrs Ps pre-existing medical conditions.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
BUPA let Mr and Mrs P know that benefits under their policy would be limited for a 
temporary period while private facilities assisted the NHS, as non-urgent treatments werent 
being prioritised. 
Mr P contacted BUPA to ask whether it would be possible to suspend the payment of 
premiums or to waive them, given he and Mrs P werent able to access the full policy 
benefits. However, BUPA said this wasnt possible under the terms of the contract. But it did 
tell Mr and Mrs P that it was offering an enhanced hospital benefit and mental health 
support. It also said that it was committed to passing back any exceptional financial benefit 
to its members  which could be through a rebate, or other means. And it said that once 
things returned to normal, it would commission an independent review to work out the fairest 
way to do this. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with BUPAs decision and asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
policy terms and conditions allowed Mr and Mrs P to suspend their policy or for any premium 
waiver. While he appreciated that the policy hadnt provided the cover Mr and Mrs P 
expected it to, he thought they did have access to some benefits under the policy. And 
BUPA had also introduced some remote services. He was persuaded that it was fair for 
BUPA to review the overall impact of Covid-19 and commission a review with a view to 
passing back any exceptional financial benefit. Overall, he felt BUPA had treated Mr and Mrs 
P fairly.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and Ill summarise their responses to the investigator. It was clear 
that for at least three months, BUPA hadnt been in a position to provide the services their 
family might have needed. They queried how, given the diversion of private medical facilities, 
BUPA couldve continued to provide the key benefits they relied on. They asked for 
comparisons between the cost of claims between April- September 2019 and the same 
period during 2020  as they assumed that the costs for 2020 would be significantly lower. 
They didnt feel the investigators outcome had been reached in a scientific way.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I think BUPA has treated them 
fairly. Ill explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contract 
with BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy say their plan is for one year and that 
premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. BUPA provided cover 
under Mr and Mrs Ps private medical insurance policy from April 2020 until March 2021. It 
isnt clear whether Mr and Mrs P did make any successful claims during that time, but BUPA 
is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of them making a claim during 
the policy year. 
And the terms of Mr and Mrs Ps plan set out their cancellation rights under the contract. 
These say that if they cancelled their policy within 21 days of either receiving the policy 
documents, or the cover start date, theyd be entitled to a full refund of their premiums 
(unless any claims had been made). If Mr and Mrs P chose to cancel their policy at any point 
after 21 days, BUPA would refund the premiums theyd paid after the date the cover ended. 
Theres no term in the contract which allows Mr and Mrs P to suspend the payment of 
premiums; to defer the policy terms or to cancel the policy and restart it on a later date on 
the same underwriting terms. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Mr and Mrs P that these 
options werent available to them.
I also dont think its accurate to say Mr and Mrs Ps policy was unusable. Depending on the 
type of medical treatment or services they required, BUPA couldve pre-authorised treatment 
to be carried out at a later date. Mr and Mrs P had access to, amongst other things, mental 
health support and enhanced benefits if theyd been hospitalised with Covid-19 during that 
time. While I understand that Mr and Mrs P have told us they wouldnt have found these 
services useful, Im satisfied that these were benefits which they couldve taken advantage 
of if theyd made a related claim. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if 
medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its 
control. BUPA doesnt own or operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members 
use and the requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was 
something which was outside of BUPAs control. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund any premiums to Mr and Mrs P. BUPA initially told them that a third-
party independent review would take place to see if thered been any exceptional financial 
benefit to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the chance to assess the impact of Covid-
19 on claims. If so, then it committed to passing back any difference to its members by way 
of a refund or other appropriate method. I dont think this was an unfair position for BUPA to 
take. I say that because it agreed to pass on any unusual financial benefits to its members to 
recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their ability to use their policies as usual. While its clear that Mr and Mrs P feel strongly that in order to assess their complaint fully, I 
ought to analyse the effective impact of Covid-19 on claims between April and September 
2020, I dont agree. BUPAs response to the Covid-19 pandemic was a commercial decision 
it was entitled to make and as Ive set out above, there was no requirement under the 
contract for it to refund premiums; to waive them or to defer cover.
BUPAs website suggests that the third-party review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of September this year. I 
should say that theres no guarantee that Mr and Mrs P will be entitled to any refund in 
2021 this is for BUPA to calculate. If Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the calculation of any 
rebate they may receive, theyll need to complain first to BUPA about that issue. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I wont be asking BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman