DRN-4141600
The complaint
Mr T complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services (SFS) was 
mis-sold and not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement with SFS to acquire a used car. He made an 
advance payment and was required to make 48 monthly repayments of around £663 
followed by a final payment of around £22,298 along with a £10 purchase option fee if he 
wished to keep the car. 
Mr T says that he paid a £500 deposit on 30 September 2022 based on a sales video 
conducted by the sales agent. On 3 October 2022, he paid the deposit balance and signed 
the agreement, prior to inspecting the car. He says he then pointed out the damage to the 
interior door trim to the sales agent and on 4 October provided evidence to the retailer of 
exterior damage. On 19 October 2022, Mr T told the retailer he wanted to reject the car 
under the short term right to reject as he said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says 
that following this he has not been treated fairly and his credit file has been adversely 
affected and the stress has caused him serious mental health issues. 
SFS said that Mr T raised his concerns with it on 25 October 2022. It spoke to Mr T on 
18 November and Mr T said the retailer had agreed to collect the car, provide a courtesy car, 
and repair the bodywork. Based on this information it upheld Mr Ts complaint noting there 
being a paint defect which the retailer had agreed to repair. Mr T then contacted SFS on 22 
December saying he hadnt heard from the retailer and that he intended to cancel his direct 
debit. SFS advised that this would be a breach the terms and conditions of his agreement. 
On 23 December SFS was notified by the retailer that Mr T had abandoned the car with it. It 
said the retailer provided evidence that there were no scratches on the car at the point of 
supply apart from those on the interior door card which it accepted and had agreed to repair.
As Mr T didnt maintain his repayments, SFS sent him a default notice and then terminated 
his agreement. The car was collected from the retailer and sold at auction. SFS said that 
Mr T has an outstanding liability of £2,251.50. 
Mr T doesnt think he has been treated fairly and referred his complaint to this service. 
Additional to the issue of the car not being of satisfactory quality, Mr T said that the car was 
mis-sold as he was told it was in super condition when it wasnt, and he was told when fully 
charged the car would have a mileage range of 313 miles which wasnt the case. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the retailer carried out a multipoint 
check on 3 October 2022 before the car was supplied and this didnt note any substantial 
damage or scratches that needed repair. While he noted the issues with the paint work, he 
didnt think this was enough to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
In regard to Mr Ts comment that the car was mis-sold, our investigator noted that the sales 
agent said the car was in super condition but said this was a subjective statement. Our 
investigator noted that the official mileage ranges are based on factory tests rather than real 
driving conditions and lots of factors could affect the mileage range achieved. He said he 
hadnt seen anything to show that Mr T was guaranteed the car would have a 313-mile 
range and the advertisement made no mention of this. He didnt think he had enough to say 
these issues meant the car had been mis-sold.
Based on the above, our investigator didnt find the short term right to reject was applicable 
in this case.
Mr T raised concerns about the price he had paid, and the actions taken by SFS after the 
agreement was terminated. Our investigator said the Mr T was aware of the cost of the car 
at acquisition and had he been concerned about this he could have challenged it at the time 
or not gone ahead. In terms of the actions SFS took he said that as Mr T had breached the 
terms of the agreement, SFS was entitled to terminate the agreement and then sell the car. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the damage to the door was enough 
to warrant a new door panel, but the inspection sheet said it was fine and there was damage 
elsewhere that wasnt identified. Given this he didnt agree that an inspection had taken 
place on 3 October. He reiterated that he was told the cars range was 313 miles when full 
but when he had charged it to full the range was dropping to 217 miles. He said at no point 
was he told the mileage range could be 30% less than he was advised. He said there was 
damage to the car which meant it wasnt in super condition as he was told. Mr T says the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and he should have been able to reject it when he 
requested this. He says the issues with the car have had a major effect on him, both in 
regard to his credit file and his mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised several issues regarding the electric car he acquired through a hire 
purchase agreement with SFS. He has also provided wider background to his situation and 
explained the impact the issues with this car are having on him. I am very sorry to hear of 
the upset Mr T has experienced and I am not underestimating the impact this has had and 
continues to have on his mental health. I also understand why he is so concerned about the 
effect this has had on his credit file and the impact it is having on his ability to get a 
mortgage. But as has been explained, our role is to consider each case on its individual 
merits and, while taking all relevant rules and regulations into account, to make a decision 
based on what we consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome given the information and 
evidence provided and the individual circumstances of the complaint. Having done this I do 
not find that I can uphold this complaint. While I know this will be upsetting for Mr T, I hope 
my reasons set out below will provide him with enough to understand why I have made this 
decision. 
Car of satisfactory quality
Mr T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), SFS can be held liable if the car supplied 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the cars 
age and mileage. In this case the car was less than a year old (around eight months) but had 
been driven around 19,000 miles. Given this, while it is reasonable to expect the car to be 
free from any major faults and sufficiently durable, it is also reasonable to expect that it 
would have suffered some wear and tear. Mr T has explained that he didnt inspect the car before it was supplied. The retailer has 
provided copies of the photographs of the car taken for the advertisement and these do not 
show any damage. It has also provided a copy of a multi-point inspection report carried out 
on 3 October 2022. I note Mr Ts comments about this inspection not taking place but given 
the information provided I find it reasonable to accept the inspection did take place.
Mr T noted the issue with the damage to the interior door panel and it was agreed this would 
be repaired and Mr T was sent an email dated 4 October saying a new door card had been 
ordered. Mr T also noted further scratches on the cars exterior. The retailer, in the 4 October 
email, said that once the door card arrived it would collect the car, provide a courtesy 
vehicle, and repair all the paintwork issues. I find this a reasonable response and as Mr T 
sent an email saying: The door panel should be a relatively simple fix, its probably just a 
snapped clip. The scratches are in the lacquer and dont look as if theyve gone through to 
the paint. A 2 stage polish and re seal would most likely solve them I find that he was happy 
at that time to accept the car subject to the offered repairs and that he accepted the offer of 
repair.
Mr T says that the issues he raised show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I take his comments, but Mr T accepted the car based on the agreement of the 
retailer to address the interior door panel issue and I do not find that the other scratches 
Mr T noted (and noting his comments about these) meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. As already noted, the car had been driven 19,000 miles at acquisition and so some 
wear and tear would be expected. Therefore, I do not find that the issues raised mean the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at acquisition.
Mr T wanted to reject the car, and this appears to be for a number of reasons, including the 
paint issues, comfort of the seats and the cars range. Under the CRA, a consumer has a 
short term right to reject if the car is found to be not of satisfactory quality, not fit for purpose 
or not as described. I have noted above that I do not find the evidence supports the car not 
being of satisfactory quality and I have nothing to suggest the issue with the comfort of the 
seats was due to any faults. Therefore, I do not find that Mr T had a short term right to reject 
based on satisfactory quality. I have considered the issues regarding whether the car was as 
described and fit for purpose below.   
Mis-sale
Mr T has said the car was mis-sold as it doesnt have the mileage range he was told, and it 
was described to him as being in super condition which he says should mean there were no 
defects. He has also noted the price he paid was too high. I have considered each of these 
concerns.
Mr T says he was told the mileage of the car when fully charged was 313 miles. I have no 
evidence of this statement as it wasnt included in the video provided of the sales agent 
walking round the car and it wasnt noted in the advertisement. So, while I note Mr Ts 
testimony, I do not have details of how this information was presented, and nothing to 
suggest this mileage was in anyway guaranteed. 
I have looked at the information available and can see from the manufacturers website that 
a mileage range of over 300 miles is noted which supports the information Mr T was 
provided with. The range provided is based on certain conditions and I note Mr T 
understands this but says he would expect the infotainment system to show a higher number 
than the 227 miles (photograph provided) when fully charged. I understand the point made 
but having looked at the manufacturers website it explains that the car needs to learn a 
drivers driving habits to calculate a range correctly. This range will then reflect these driving 
habits and conditions which is why the range can be different. In this case I find it likely that the difference in the range was due to the driving style and conditions and I have nothing to 
suggest there was a fault with the car. So, without further evidence to show exactly how the 
mileage range was presented, or that it was guaranteed, I do not find I have enough to say 
that this issue means the car was misrepresented to Mr T. 
Mr T was provided with a video by the sales agent in which he walks round the car. On this 
video the sales agent refers to the car being in super condition. Mr T doesnt agree with 
this. Mr T could see the condition of the car in the video, and the car does appear to be in 
good condition and so it isnt unreasonable that the sales agent would provide a positive 
comment on this. So, while I understand that Mr T doesnt consider the car to have been in 
super condition as this was a subjective observation rather than a statement of fact I do not 
find I can say this statement means the car was misrepresented to Mr T.
Mr T was aware of the cost of the car before he agreed to acquire it. Mr T has said that 
similar cars are available at a lower cost, but I do not find I have anything to suggest that 
Mr T wasnt fully aware of the cost of the car and I would expect him to have done some 
research before his acquisition to assess whether he felt the price it was offered at was 
reasonable.
Overall, I do not find that I have evidence to say that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the 
point of supply or that it was misrepresented to Mr T. Therefore, I do not find I can uphold 
this part of the complaint or say that Mr T should have been allowed to reject the car based 
on the above issues. 
Actions taken by SFS
Mr T returned the car to the retailer in December 2022 and stopped making his payments 
under the agreement. While I appreciate Mr T was upset by the situation he was in and no 
longer wanted the car, it was made clear to him that rejection of the car wasnt being 
accepted. SFS also told Mr T that he needed to continue to make his payments, or his credit 
file could be affected. As Mr T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, he wasnt 
the owner of the car, as ownership remained with SFS until the final payment and purchase 
option fee had been made. He was required to keep the car in his possession and make his 
repayments. As Mr T chose to return the car to the retailer without any agreement for this to 
happen and didnt make his payments he was in breach of the terms of his agreement and 
so I cannot say that SFS was wrong to take further action. 
SFS sent Mr T a default notice and so Mr T had the opportunity to prevent further action 
being taken. As Mr T didnt take the required action the agreement was terminated and 
following this the car was sold. While I appreciate Mr T doesnt think this should have 
happened, I do not find I can say that SFS was wrong to take this action. SFS has said that 
Mr T has an outstanding liability of £2,251.50. 
Overall, while I am very sorry to hear of Mr Ts circumstances and I do understand how 
distressing this must be, I do not find that I can say SFS did anything wrong in this case. 
Because of this I am unable to uphold this complaint. That said, as Mr T has explained his 
situation I would expect FS to treat him positively and sympathetically and to work with him 
in regard to the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman