DRN-3121285
The complaint
Mrs M complains about a loan provided to her by Madison CF UK Limited, (trading as 118 
118 Money) which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mrs M with a loan of £2000 on 10 July 2018. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 Monthly instalments of £195.91. If Mrs M made each payment when it was 
due, shed pay £4701.84 in total. Mrs M has to date, not repaid this loan.
Mrs M says through her representative that the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have 
been given to her.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
As set out above, 118 118 Money gathered some information from Mrs M about 
her income and expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit 
check and called Mrs M to discuss the amounts she had declared.
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how 118 118 Money carried out its checks. But Im 
not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 24 months and 118 118 Money needed to 
ensure the repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of 
time;
118 118 Moneys analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mrs Ms 
declared income and credit expenditure;
The discrepancy between Mrs Ms declared income (£1900) and what it had 
verified it to be (£1520) was significantly wide. Mrs M had also declared her credit 
commitments to be £100 when the credit search would have shown that she was 
paying at least £600 a month on repayments. There was a difference in what Mrs 
M had declared and what it found out.
118 118 Money would have seen in its credit checks that Mrs M had taken out 
three short term loans with other finance providers that she was still repaying and 
two of them had been taken out within two months of this loan application. 
Mrs M also had four historic defaults that had outstanding balances, yet to be 
repaid.
I can see from 118 118 Moneys documentation, that Mrs M had told it she was using the 
loan to consolidate her debts. And I think it is fair enough for it to make an assumption that 
she would go on and do this. If she did, she would have paid off the outstanding short-term 
loans and significantly reduced what she owed on her credit report. But I think, with what it 
had in front of it, 118 118 Money ought to have had concerns about Mrs Ms finances. She 
had declared to it that she had a comfortable amount of disposable income and this 
wouldnt have added up with what it would have seen in Mrs Ms credit file. This being that 
she had needed to take-out short-term loans and use all of the available credit that she had 
already applied for. I think when I consider this and also the discrepancies between what it 
had in front of it and what Mrs M declared, I think 118 118 Money ought to have had 
enough concerns to ask for more. I consider 118 118 Moneys checks should have included 
a full review of Mrs Ms financial circumstances, including further verification of her income 
and expenditure so it could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable over the term 
of the loan.
I need to think about what 118 118 Money would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. Our investigator asked Mrs M through her representatives to provide 
her bank statements from around the time she applied for the loan. Im not suggesting 
here that this is the check that 118 118 Money should have done. But I think looking at her 
bank statements would give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
Mrs M has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and 
around when she took out the loan though. So, I havent been able to see what 118 118 
Money would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I 
am unable to safely conclude that Mrs M was given a loan that was unaffordable for her. 
Mrs Ms representatives have said that based on the information 118 118 Money had in 
front of it, they shouldnt have provided the loan to her. I have been able to see the results 
of the checks 118 118 Money carried out, and although I can see in the credit search 
outstanding payday loans with other lenders and that Mrs M had utilised all of the credit 
available to her, I havent seen enough that would indicate that the amount of debt she had, 
or how she was managing it, should have led it to decline the loan. This is because Mrs M 
had requested this loan from 118 118 Money to consolidate her existing debt, and the loan 
would cover a high percentage of this. There was also not a great deal of impaired credit 
information on her file either. But as I have already found, I think what it had gathered, 
should have pointed 118 118 Money to find out more about Mrs Ms financial situation at 
that time. 
In conclusion, based on what it did have in front of it, I dont think the amount of disposable 
income left after Mrs M made her loan repayments would have been of concern. But as Ive 
said above, I do think the discrepancy between the information Mrs M provided and what 
118 118 Money saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better checks. And Ive 
not been able to see what better checks would have shown 118 118 Money, so on this 
occasion I havent been able to draw any conclusions about this, other than I cant say that 
the loan was unaffordable for Mrs M.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not currently upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. 118 118 Money did not respond. Mrs Ms representatives 
responded and said if we did not hear by the deadline from them then take this that Mrs 
M has no further evidence to raise. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has not made any new points for me to respond to and 118 118 Money has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mrs 
Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman