DRN-3629489
The complaint
Mr D complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS). 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr D hired a new car through a hire agreement with MBFS. The initial rental 
was £1,574.57 with 35 monthly rentals of £262.43.
On 9 March 2022 Mr Ds car was collected by MBFS collections agent, as his hire 
agreement with them was due to end. The inspection report on the day of collection shows 
that no damage or additional charges had been recorded. However, Mr D says a second 
inspection was carried out where over £850 worth of charges were applied. Mr D says that 
MBFS reduced the charges to £629 after hed disputed them. 
Mr D said he complained to MBFS about the charges because he felt they were unfair, 
particularly as hed had the car serviced along with its inspection, all within a month of the 
collection and no faults were found. Mr D says hes refused to pay the charges. He also said 
MBFS wouldnt allow him to have the car independently inspected to confirm its condition. 
In May 2022, MBFS provided Mr D with their final response to his complaint. MBFS didnt 
uphold his complaint. MBFS confirmed the purpose of the initial inspection was to identify 
the overall condition of the car. They also confirmed that no quote or repair costs would be 
provided at the initial inspection. However, they advised that on the second inspection the 
following issues with their related costs had been identified correctly in line with their Vehicle 
Return Standards (VRS):
1. Bumper, front scratched - £210
2. Quarter panel, left hand rear dented - £35
3. Door, left hand front dented - £260
4. Tyre, right hand front gouge - £149.22
5. Wheel, left hand front spoke damaged - £110
6. Wheel, right hand rear spoke damaged - £110
MBFS advised that prior to the complaint being raised they credited charges 1 and 2, which 
they confirmed had left the outstanding balance for Mr D to pay as £629.22. MBFS said as 
the car was returned to them they were unable to facilitate an independent inspection, they 
also said Mr D was given a copy of the VRS and MBFS pricing matrix prior to the 
completion of his agreement, so he would have been aware of what was required when 
returning the car and the potential costs involved if the standards werent met.
Unhappy MBFS response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator contacted MBFS prior to issuing his view to discuss the damage to the right-
hand rear wheel as he said he couldnt see the damage they were referring to. MBFS agreed 
to waive the £110 charge for it. Following this, our investigator gave their view that MBFS 
didnt need to take any action.
Mr D remained unhappy with our investigators view. Although he accepted the tyre damage, 
he contested the remaining charges because he felt the dent to the door was within 
tolerances and not sufficiently broken and that there was no way to confirm the other wheel 
needed to be refurbished. So, Mr D asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr D has disputed the end of contract charges applied as a result of the damage that MBFS 
has identified as being beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ill go on to consider if the remaining 
end of contract charges were fairly applied. 
As well as the VRS, Ive also considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guide to fair wear and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im 
happy this is a useful benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
During a telephone conversation with our investigator in July 2022, MBFS decided to waive 
the charge for the wheel, right hand rear spoke damage - £110. So, the below charges 
remained in place to be paid by Mr D:
1. Door, left hand front dented - £260
2. Tyre, right hand front gouge - £149.22
3. Wheel, left hand front spoke damaged - £110
In an email to our investigator, dated 28 July 2022, Mr D said that he accepted the damage 
to the tyre. Having reviewed the VRS, MBFS damage charge matrix and the BVRLA 
guidance, in relation to tyre damage, Im in agreement with our investigators view that the 
gouge damage on the sidewall of the tyre is not considered fair wear and tear. So, Im 
satisfied that MBFS have acted fairly by applying the charge for this.
As two of the charges remain disputed by Mr D, Ive focused the rest of my decision on 
whether I think MBFS have applied them fairly in the circumstances. 
Door - left hand front dented
In relation to body and paint damage the VRS says: light surface scratches not through the 
top coat which can be removed by polishing/ touch up is acceptable, it also says: any 
chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat is unacceptable 
damage. The BVRLA guidance says: chips within dents are not acceptable
I acknowledge Mr D says its not certain the paintwork is broken, however having had a look 
at the images provided by MBFS and in consideration of the guidance, Im persuaded that the damage is within a dent on the door panel and has penetrated the base coat, both of 
which are considered as unacceptable wear and tear. 
So, in the circumstances, and in consideration of the MBFS damage charge matrix, Im 
satisfied that MBFS are acting fairly in applying this charge.
Wheel - left hand front (LHF)spoke damaged 
In relation to wheels, the VRS says that scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are 
considered as unacceptable wear and tear. The BVRLA says scuffs up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel rim and on alloys wheels are acceptable, however it also says 
any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheels is not 
acceptable. 
Mr D says that as MBFS hadnt claimed the scuffs were beyond 50mm he didnt think they 
should be considered out of tolerance. 
Having reviewed the images provided by MBFS and the guidance, Im persuaded that the 
damage to the LHF alloy is beyond fair wear and tear. MBFS provided an image with a ruler 
next to the damaged area which Im satisfied is beyond 25mm and is on the spoke of the 
wheel. So, although Im not able to confirm whether the damage to the circumference of the 
wheel exceeds 50mm, under the guidance provided by the VRS its beyond 25mm. In 
addition to this the damage is also to the spoke of the alloy wheel which the BVRLA 
guidance also says is considered as unacceptable. So, in the circumstances, and in 
consideration of MBFS damage charge matrix, Im satisfied that MBFS have acted fairly in 
applying this charge. 
Mr D told our investigator that the damage charges. werent raised in the first inspection. He 
also said that MBFS wouldnt allow him to have the car independently reinspected.  
In their final response to Mr Ds complaint, MBFS advised that the first inspection at 
collection is to identify the overall condition of the car and that no repair or quoted price 
would be provided at that stage. The VRS, as stated on the hire agreement says: when the 
vehicle is returned to us a VRS inspection will be carried out by trained technicians at the 
nominated centre. So, in consideration of this, I dont think its unreasonable that the 
damage wasnt identified at the point of collection. I think its fair that following a more in-
depth inspection some areas of damage that wasnt previously identified, would become 
apparent.
And considering the car was in the possession and ownership of MBFS, I dont think its 
unreasonable that the car wasnt released for a further independent inspection. I say this 
because Ive been given no reason to doubt the expertise of the MBFS inspection agents, 
and Im satisfied with the clarity of the evidence that theyve provided for the outstanding 
charges.
As Ive concluded that the contract charges as detailed above, were fairly applied and in line 
with industry guidance, I wont be instructing MBFS to take any further action in respect of 
this complaint. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint MBFS has waived the charge relating to the following area:
1. Wheel, right hand rear spoke damaged - £110I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman