DRN-3760543
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N are unhappy with how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has 
treated them in relation to an application to port their mortgage. They say due to the delays 
they were made to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) which shouldnt have been 
necessary, had the application been handled correctly. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Rather 
than repeat in detail what is already known to them, in my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs N and Mr N were looking to move property. They held a mortgage with Clydesdale and 
were tied into a fixed term product until the end of September 2021. In March 2021 they 
contacted Clydesdale about porting their mortgage. Mrs N and Mr N and Clydesdale spoke 
on numerous occasions in the following months. But Mrs N and Mr N say the application 
took too long, it wasnt handled efficiently and during the process they werent kept updated. 
So due to the delays they decided to go with another lender, mainly out of fear of losing out 
on the property they wanted to move to. 
As they decided to change lenders rather than proceed with Clydesdale, they were charged 
an ERC. Unhappy with this they complained to Clydesdale, they said had things gone as 
they should have, they would have ported their mortgage and saved on paying any ERC. So 
they wanted Clydesdale to refund the ERC. 
Clydesdale responded to say it wasnt able to agree a refund of the ERC because it felt there 
would still have been plenty of time for the mortgage porting to be completed. It did 
acknowledge the poor service provided to Mrs N and Mr N. So it offered Mrs N and Mr N 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service.  
One of our investigators looked into things. He felt that the offer already made by Clydesdale 
was fair and didnt think it was reasonable to require Clydesdale to refund the ERC 
applicable under Mrs N and Mr Ns mortgage. 
Mrs N and Mr N asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman because they felt 
they werent treated fairly or provided a reasonable expectation of the process and this left 
them without a choice but to go with a different lender. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale acknowledges that it made some errors and didnt provide the service level it 
would expect to Mrs N and Mr N, especially in explaining the process to them. It recognised 
that the service it provided wasnt efficient and Mrs N and Mr N were made to provide 
information which could have been requested together. It also accepted that it could have 
been clearer about the appointment on 2 June 2021 not being a full mortgage appointment 
and that theyd need to attend a further appointment. So as Clydesdale accepts errors were 
made, what is left for me to decide is what a fair way to put things right is.
Mrs N and Mr N have said theyd like Clydesdale to refund the ERC on the mortgage they 
redeemed. But I dont think this would be reasonable.
The mortgage offer Mrs N and Mr N agreed would have been clear that, in the event the 
mortgage is repaid in full before the end of September 2021, an ERC would be payable. And 
selling their property and purchasing another property with another lender would result in the 
mortgage being repaid in full. I dont think itd be fair to require Clydesdale to disregard this 
term of the previously agreed contract, just as a result of the lack of information and poor 
service it gave later.
Although Mrs N and Mr N initiated the process of trying to port their mortgage in March 2021, 
they were only able to finalise the property they were purchasing at the end of May 2021. So 
even if things had been confirmed earlier, they would still have needed to go through further 
checks with Clydesdale once the property they wanted to purchase had been confirmed. 
I accept there was some confusion about Mrs N and Mr N speaking to a mortgage advisor 
but following a conversation with the correct advisor on 10 June 2021, Clydesdale confirmed 
they would have been in a position to provide a decision in principle and it would have been 
able to approve Mrs N and Mr Ns application to port their mortgage in time. 
Having listened to the call with Clydesdales mortgage advisor, Mrs N and Mr N confirm that 
they had been approved for a mortgage with another lender. So, they said they wanted to go 
with that lender but still wanted Clydesdale to waive the ERC due to the delays. I can 
appreciate this would have been a stressful time for them and they would have wanted to 
confirm the details as soon as possible, but as the property had only been finalised a couple 
of weeks prior to this conversation I dont think the was an undue delay in dealing with the 
application once the final details of the property were known. 
In the conversations with Clydesdales mortgage advisor on 10 June 2021 it was explained 
to Mrs N and Mr N that the ERC would only be waived from 1 July 2021 if they chose to stay 
with Clydesdale, but it would be payable if they decided to go with another lender before the 
expiry of the current mortgage product. So, Mrs N and Mr N had all the information they 
needed to decide on whether to stay with Clydesdale or move to another lender. They would 
also have been aware of consequences if they did move to another lender in regard to the 
ERC.  
Id expect Clydesdale to act in line with the terms of their mortgage when it comes to an ERC 
and whether any concession applies. Likewise, if Mrs N and Mr N applied to port their 
mortgage or take alternative lending with Clydesdale, again Id expect it to honour the terms 
of the mortgage and its current policies. But beyond continuing to act in line with the 
previously agreed contract I dont think it needs to do anything further in terms of changing 
the ERC payable, just because of the error made.
Mrs N and Mr N were still able to apply to take an alternative mortgage or to port their 
current one in an attempt to buy the property  and Clydesdale did not prevent them from 
doing so. Mrs N and Mr N took the decision not to do so. I accept this was based on poor 
service and some delays in the process. But it was ultimately their decision not to proceed 
with Clydesdale and to go with another lender.  
Clydesdale has offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. Mrs N and Mr N have said they dont think this is fair. I dont doubt that it was a frustrating 
process and that theyd want to have certainty as quickly as possible. But while I appreciate 
Mrs N and Mr N wouldve been anxious to tie down a mortgage for their new property, I think 
the offer made by Clydesdale is a fair and proportionate way to address the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor service in the circumstances here. So, I dont intend to 
require it to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, as I think the offer already 
made by the business is a fair way to resolve things. 
If it hasnt already done so Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, should pay Mrs N 
and Mr N the £100 it offered previously for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman