DRN-2526873
The complaint
Mr F and Ms M complain they were badly affected when their bank TSB Bank plc 
encountered problems following a system upgrade and they were unable to transfer money 
to their personal accounts.
What happened
Mr F and Ms M have a joint current account with TSB. They also have a savings account. 
Ms M also owns a business whose business account is with TSB and Mr F works for that 
business. At the time of the system upgrade Mr F was working abroad.
When Ms M complained to TSB about the problems, she had experienced transferring 
money between the business account and the personal account. TSB responded and 
offered her compensation. 
When the complaint came to this service the investigator separated the complaint into two 
complaints based on the party complaining. Another ombudsman has already made a 
decision on the problems for the business complaint. This complaint is therefore about the 
problems for the personal accounts.
Ms M has explained that Mr Fs personal welfare was impacted by the disruption caused by 
the problems with the upgrade as he had no access to money and could not pay his own 
expenses, such as travel costs, hotels, refreshments etc. This was very upsetting and 
frustrating at the time.
The investigator thought that Ms M and Mr F should be compensated as they were delayed 
from sending money to their account which meant Mr F was left without the means to pay for 
necessities. She recommended that TSB pay £250 for the distress caused.
TSB disagrees. It says when the complaint was reviewed by its complaint handler both the 
business and personal accounts were taken into consideration. It feels the compensation it 
has paid overall is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand TSBs position here. But I dont think that it did fully consider the impact on Mr F 
and Ms Ms personal account caused by the disruption. I have also read carefully my fellow 
ombudsmans decision regarding the business account and I am satisfied that the distress 
the investigator recommended compensation for wasnt covered in that complaint.
The statement for the joint account does show numerous transactions and non-sterling fees 
of the type I would expect to see if someone was paying for food and accommodation 
abroad. I think it is therefore likely that the disruption caused by problems with the system 
upgrade did cause Mr F and Ms M a great deal of personal distress and worry. I think in the 
circumstances of this case the £250 recommended by the investigator seems fair. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think TSB should pay Mr F and Ms M £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr F and Ms M £250 in addition to 
anything it paid or pays following its final response letter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman