DRN-1492242
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited handled her 
Permanent Health Insurance (PHI) claim. She says that after recently receiving 
documentation from Royal London through a Subject Access Request (SAR) she was upset 
by the content of the documentation which Royal London held and recorded about her 
during the course of the claim.
What happened
Mrs B arranged PHI in 1989 and varied the policy in 1990. Unfortunately, Mrs B became 
unable to work and began claiming on the policy soon after. As Mrs B was unable to return 
to work, Royal London paid benefit to Mrs B under this cover until 2016. 
More recently, and in the course of making complaints about other policies she held with 
Royal London, Mrs B made a SAR request. 
The SAR provided Mrs B with copies of documentation relating to her PHI cover, including 
records of previous claim assessments. Mrs B has said reading through these papers has 
brought her a great deal of distress as she feels the comments about her during the 
assessment of the ongoing claim were nasty, very personal and slanderous. Mrs B is 
particularly upset with certain passages discussing her motivation and ability to return to 
work, the consideration of potential legal action and reference to her time spent on the 
phone with someone from Royal London. Mrs B was also very unhappy to learn that 
surveillance had been used at one time as part of the ongoing claim assessment. 
Mrs B raised her concerns with Royal London who investigated them. Royal London said 
there was not ever any damage or intent to damage Mrs Bs character while she was a 
customer with them. And they noted the comments Mrs B was upset with were integral to 
assessing her claim. Royal London also felt that had there been anything untoward in terms 
of what theyd said about Mrs B, this service would have said as much on a previous and 
different complaint brought to this service relating to the PHI cover. Royal London let Mrs B 
know she could approach the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as well.  
As Mrs B remained unhappy she contacted our service and one of our investigators looked 
into Mrs Bs concerns. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. They explained that while Royal Londons 
notes speculated about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, insurers did need to gather and 
validate evidence to ensure payment of claims met the policy terms and conditions. But our 
investigator did feel that one of the comments which said, hope she hasnt been on the 
phone too long was unnecessary. Our investigator concluded it was enough that Royal 
London had recognised that some of its comments may have upset Mrs B and apologised.
 
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators opinion and she didnt think the investigator had seen 
all the relevant documentation she was unhappy with. Mrs B felt that an apology wasnt 
enough as it wasnt going to fix anything. To resolve things Mrs B feels that financial 
compensation would be appropriate, although she stresses her complaint is not about the 
money, but more that she doesnt want this to happen to anyone else. 
Mrs B resent copies of the relevant pages she feels are important to her complaint. And as it 
wasnt possible for our investigator to resolve the complaint with Mrs B, it has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly recognise that this has all clearly been very distressing to Mrs B. And I am 
sorry to hear of Mrs Bs troubles. I understand that over time her circumstances have not 
been easy and that when she says seeing this information recorded about her has brought 
back unhappy and difficult memories, I have no doubt that this is the case. 
Before I set out my findings, I also think its important to be clear and explain some of the 
limitations to my considerations. 
Mrs B has mentioned slander several times during the course of her submissions - both in 
writing and in telephone calls to our service which I have listened to. Allegations of slander 
are not something this service can deal with as that would in fact be a matter for the courts. 
So I wont be commenting on this directly. I also note Mrs B has had a long and complicated 
relationship with Royal London, and while its clear to see Mrs B is overall very unhappy with 
Royal London, it is also not the role of this service to fine or punish firms. That is the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. The role of this service is to look at each 
individual complaint. 
I have therefore considered whether the way Royal London handled Mrs Bs ongoing PHI 
claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I note Mrs Bs particular references 
to the assessment of the ongoing claim around 2004/2005. I dont make any findings about 
the outcome of any claims assessments made. 
When assessing claims its not unreasonable for the insurer to gather information from 
various sources and to weigh up and consider that evidence, in order to decide whether or 
not the claim should be paid or continue to be paid. There is a contract of insurance which 
Mrs B agreed to when the policy was arranged, and it is only fair for the claim to be 
assessed against those terms. 
Mrs B highlighted several extracts from the independent medical report that Royal London 
instructed in 2004. And this report in turn referred to previous professional opinions from 
other specialists about Mrs Bs condition. Mrs B feels the opinion in the report of 2004 is 
upsetting, particularly as it questions Mrs Bs motivation and ability to return to work. I do 
recognise that this would be difficult reading for Mrs B, but it doesnt automatically follow that 
considerations of this kind are unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. And Im mindful 
that while the report was requested by Royal London, the contents of the report were given 
independently  that is, the medical opinion in the report was not given by Royal London. 
Mrs B raised concerns about Royal Londons own internal notes around this time that 
discuss the possibility of legal action, and which also question Mrs Bs living arrangements to 
determine whether she still qualified for benefit under the cover. Again, while I fully 
appreciate this would not be easy for Mrs B to review, such considerations would not be 
unusual in the circumstances of a claim like this. And as Mrs B knows, the claim did in fact 
then go on to be paid for several years after this. Mrs B also referred to seeing comments about the use of surveillance that had been carried 
out during a review of the claim under the same policy a few years earlier. The use of private 
investigators and surveillance would not have been an unusual practice for the time in order 
to help provide assurances for the insurer that claims were being paid fairly. And it is a 
practice that can still be used today. So Im afraid Im unable to say that doing this as part of 
assessing the claim was wrong of Royal London at the time. 
I do however agree with our investigator that the reference to how long Mrs B may have kept 
a Royal London staff member on the phone was an unnecessary comment. This added no 
value to the overall assessment of the claim. 
Overall, I dont feel that the way in which Royal London went about assessing Mrs Bs 
ongoing claim under her PHI cover was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. While I 
fully appreciate that the reading of the reports and notes would have been uncomfortable 
and upsetting for Mrs B, I dont think Royal London did anything wrong here. As noted, I do 
think the above comment about time spent on the phone was unnecessary. However, it 
seems Mrs B is unwilling to accept an apology and the extent of Royal Londons wrongdoing 
doesnt in my opinion warrant an award. 
My final decision
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs B was hoping for. But for the reasons above my final 
decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman