DRN-2794167
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. On 24 February 2020, they cancelled a trip to four countries in mainland 
southeast Asia due to Covid-19. The intended departure and return dates of the trip were 
29 February 2020 and 26 March 2020 respectively. 
Mr and Mrs Ws travel provider refunded some of their trip costs. They claimed against 
their travel insurance policy for the balance. Aviva declined their claim. It said that what 
happened here didnt come within the policy terms. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept that and 
pursued their complaint.  
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy with Mr and Mrs W. For reasons I quite understand, they took 
what was no doubt a difficult decision to cancel their trip. I must decide whether Aviva acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably in 
declining their claim. 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ws policy doesnt cover every event which may lead to cancellation of 
their trip. Subject to the policy terms, their policy provides cover if Mr and Mrs W 
cancel a trip following certain insured events. 
Its common ground that when Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) hadnt advised against all travel or all but essential 
travel to Mr and Mrs Ws destinations or advised British citizens to leave the areas in 
which Mr and Mrs W would be staying. So, I dont think that Aviva was at fault in 
deciding that Mr and Mrs Ws claim didnt come within that part of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs W wish to rely on two other provisions. First, the cover provided if the 
area in which they are staying is affected by pandemic or epidemic influenza. In 
general terms, insurers are entitled to decide which risks they wish to cover.      
Covid-19 isnt the same as influenza. So, this part of the policy doesnt cover what 
happened here. I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to 
treat Covid-19 as if it were influenza: thats not the risk it decided to cover. 
Mr and Mrs W wish to rely on the part of the policy which provides cover in the event 
of:
(d) a major incident such as a terrorist attack [which] happens within a 50 mile radius 
of the area in which you will be/are staying and you do not wish to travel.
Ive thought about this matter carefully. The policy doesnt define major incident but 
gives an example of one: a terrorist attack. I think that in order to be a major incident 
within the meaning of the policy, an incident within a 50 mile radius of where            
Mr and Mrs W would have been staying would have to be of a similar seriousness 
and effect as a terrorist attack. 
The investigator set out information provided by the FCO at the relevant time about 
the countries Mr and Mrs W intended to visit. I think its right to take that information 
into account as it tells us how the FCO interpreted events. Nothing in that information 
leads me to conclude that a major incident had occurred within the meaning of the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs W say that the government of one of their destination countries declared 
a public health emergency, banned flights to and from China, introduced quarantine 
in a region within 50 miles of where they would have been staying and made face 
masks compulsory. The flight restrictions, quarantine and other public health 
measures were steps taken in order to contain Covid-19. I dont think that the steps 
taken by the government of one of Mr and Mrs Ws intended destination countries 
amounted to a major incident, within the meaning of the policy.
Considering everything, I dont think that when Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip, 
there had been a major incident within a 50 mile radius of the areas in which they 
would have been staying.  
Mr and Mrs W have referred to the claim they might have made if they had departed 
as planned and then curtailed their trip. Im dealing with the claim they actually made, 
not any claim they may have made if they had chosen a different course of action, so 
I make no further comment on that. 
Mr and Mrs W say that Aviva has removed the provisions on which they seek to rely 
from the latest version of its policy. They say that suggests that successful claims 
could be made against those parts of the policy. I dont think any changes in 
subsequent policies alters the outcome here. Thats because Im considering          
Mr and Mrs Ws claim against their policy terms. 
I dont think that Aviva treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly in declining their claim as an 
insured event hasnt occurred here. Ive considered whether I should direct Aviva to 
deal with Mr and Mrs Ws claim in any event but there are no grounds on which I 
could fairly direct Aviva to do so.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman