DRN-4250793
The complaint
Mr L complains that, despite having paid his mortgage for a little longer than envisaged 
when he got the offer from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, he still owed it 
more money than it had estimated in his offer. Mr L says Virgin must have got this wrong.
What happened
Mr L said he got a mortgage offer from Virgin in October 2017, for a 25 year mortgage with a 
fixed interest rate running until the end of December 2022. He said this offer included a 
detailed breakdown of how his payments would work, telling him how much he would owe by 
1 December 2022. 
Mr L redeemed his mortgage at the start of 2023, to move his borrowing elsewhere. He 
complained that Virgin told him then that he needed to pay more to redeem his mortgage in 
early January 2023 than its offer said he would owe at the start of December 2022. 
Mr L said his offer assumed he would draw down the mortgage funds from Virgin on 1 
February 2018, and his first payment would be 1 March 2018. The offer then estimated that 
he would owe £269,777.33 on 1 December 2022, after 58 monthly mortgage payments. 
Mr L said his mortgage actually completed on 7 December 2017, and the first payment was 
made on 8 January 2018. So hed been paying for a bit longer than Virgin envisaged when it 
worked out the details in his offer. 
But Mr Ls redemption statement asked for payment of £270,379.19 on 3 January 2023. Mr L 
said Virgin was now telling him he owed more money, after hed made 59 monthly mortgage 
payments, than his offer said hed owe after 58 monthly payments. So that couldnt be right. 
Mr L appears to have based his remortgage request on an estimate of what his balance 
would be at the time he wanted to remortgage, which he had obtained from Virgin in late 
September 2022, rather than the redemption statement, which he received in early 
December 2022. So Mr L then needed to cover a shortfall in his new lending, in order to 
remortgage away from Virgin. 
Mr L said he also noted that his offer was based on him borrowing £315,995, but his solicitor 
only received £315,300. He thought that meant hed borrowed less than Virgin envisaged in 
its offer, which was another reason he ought to owe less now.
Mr L also said Virgin had collected two extra payments of £1,450 since December 2022. He 
said hed got one of those back, but should have had two, plus the additional money hed 
had to pay for the shortfall. 
Mr L says hed paid Virgin more than hed agreed, and its calculations couldnt be accurate. 
He said he was expecting a refund of £3,716.
Virgin didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr Ls mortgage completed much 
earlier than envisaged, so it wouldnt match the estimates Virgin provided in that offer. It 
didnt think Mr L had made extra payments to his mortgage.  
Mr L then said there wasnt any dispute over how many payments he had made, it was the 
balance he thought was wrong. He still thought his loan was for less money than envisaged 
in the offer. And he said Virgin had predicted hed owe £269,777.33 on 1 December 2022, 
after 58 payments (including the first, much larger payment, which included interest paid in 
arrears from the start of the mortgage to the date of payment, as well as the usual interest 
paid in advance for the following month). So he still couldnt see how it could say now that he 
had paid more than this (59 payments, including the first larger payment) over a longer 
period, but ended up owing more, £270,299.19 after allowing for fees payable at redemption.
When this complaint came to our service, Virgin provided more information about the 
lending. It said that its loan offer was for £315,000 plus a £995 product fee which was added 
to the loan. It said thats why the offer mentioned a figure of £315,995. Virgin said the money 
for the product fee wouldnt go to his solicitor, that was never intended to be paid to Mr L. 
But it did pay Mr L a cashback amount of £300, which wasnt added to his loan. 
Virgin said Mr L did draw down the mortgage funds earlier than the offer had assumed. He 
then made his monthly payments for the fixed interest rate period. That period ended on 1 
January 2023, and Mr L redeemed his mortgage, to move his lending elsewhere. 
Virgin said it provided a redemption figure of £270,379.19, for redemption on 3 January 
2023. That included fees totalling £80. Importantly, Virgin also said that the redemption 
figure it provided on 7 December was based ONLY on payments it had received to date. So 
it didnt take account of Mr Ls next monthly payment, which he subsequently paid, in mid-
December. Virgin said that meant the redemption payment included a surplus, and it paid Mr 
L back an amount just over the amount hed paid it in December 2022. 
Virgin sent our service a copy of Mr Ls original mortgage offer, the redemption statement it 
issued on 7 December 2022, and the full transaction history for Mr Ls mortgage, including 
all the interest changed and all the payments hed made.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Shed previously explained that 
our service doesnt audit mortgages, so we wouldnt look at things in that level of detail. But 
she had looked at a breakdown of the figures involved and she thought the redemption 
figure was correct. 
Our investigator explained that Mr L did borrow the amount set out in the offer, because hed 
not accounted for the product fee of £995. Shed also done her own rough calculation, and 
she thought the figures Virgin had produced were right. 
Mr L replied to disagree. He has produced a number of detailed calculations, which I have 
considered, but wont set out here. Mr L said he didnt think that the figures our investigator 
had given were right. He attributed the rough calculations our investigator had done herself, 
to Virgin, and said those were further evidence of errors on its part. 
Mr L worked out what he thought his average monthly interest charge would be, and from 
that, how much his overall debt would reduce by, each month. He said that didnt match 
what Virgin had charged. His calculation of his loss was then £4,382.23, which he said 
included £2,901.98 of overcharged interest. 
Mr L thought this was, at its heart, quite simple. More payment = reduced debt.Our investigator asked Virgin about this, and it replied to summarise Mr Ls mortgage. I wont 
set those details out in full here, because I understand our investigator then sent this 
information to Mr L. Briefly, Virgin worked out how much interest Mr L had been charged 
over the term of his lending with it, and how much hed paid. Virgin said these figures tallied. 
And it noted that Mr Ls fixed rate had come to an end on 31 December 2022, so for the last 
three days of his mortgage he paid Virgins standard variable rate which was then 7.4%. 
Virgin still didnt think it had got things wrong. Our investigator sent its calculations to Mr L, 
but he said this couldnt be right, because wed accepted that Virgins last set of figures was 
right, and this was different. Again, he appears to be attributing our investigators own rough 
calculations to Virgin here. Mr L was very unhappy at being given two separate sets of 
figures, and said that it must be clear that Virgin hadnt got this right. 
Mr L also said Virgins most recent calculations were missing the interest hed paid in 
December 2022 up to 3 January 2023, and that meant these calculations were also 
incorrect. And he thought hed just been overcharged interest anyway. 
Mr L said what Virgin had set out in its offer was why hed decided to take out this mortgage, 
and if it was wrong, he should get compensation for that. Once again, Mr L averaged out the 
interest hed been charged, and said that once he did so, he could see hed been 
overcharged. He now thought Virgin should pay him £3,350.50.
Mr L said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He then wrote again 
to summarise his case for me, saying again that he thought hed been overcharged interest. 
This time Mr L looked not only at the balance his offer estimated he would owe on 1 
December 2022, contrasted with the amount on his redemption statement for 3 January 
2023. He also pointed out that his offer predicted an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) of 
£10,791.09 in December 2022, after 58 payments, but his redemption statement showed a 
ERC of £10,811.97, if his loan was redeemed before 1 January 2023. 
Mr L said this was further proof that hed been overcharged. And he said it was meaningless 
to compare Virgins figures for the lifetime of the loan with its figures for his redemption, that 
wouldnt show up any overcharging. He said we had to assess the redemption statement 
against the loan agreement. Hed done that, and thats how hed revealed the mistakes. 
Mr L said this was like buying a car with a value of £20,000, setting a payment plan of 
£1,000 per month. One would expect the car to be paid off after 20 months. And he said that 
wasnt what had happened with his mortgage. Mr L said Virgin owed him £3,907.36. And this 
case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. I dont think 
Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Im aware Ive summarised the arguments advanced as part of this complaint in less detail 
than the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the 
informal nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered 
everything on file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. 
Its because Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Id like to start by addressing some of the underlying assumptions that Mr L has made, in 
working out what he says Virgin has overcharged. 
Mr L has based his figures on a calculation of average monthly interest over the time he was 
paying Virgin. But our service has sent him the detailed breakdown of his account, which 
shows that the interest payment reduces month on month. I dont think its helpful to use 
average monthly interest as a basis for this sort of calculation.
Mr L also said that he thought this was simple. More payments = less debt. 
Unfortunately, I dont think things are quite that straightforward in this case. Mortgages are a 
complex financial product. I think there are two key things to remember here. 
The first is that Mr L isnt paying off the whole of this loan. While he was paying his mortgage 
with Virgin, Mr L reduced his debt, overall, by less than a fifth. So a lot of what Mr L pays 
every month, isnt reducing the balance that he owes. Its interest, the charge Virgin applies 
for lending Mr L money. This interest remains a significant part of the cost of the mortgage 
each month, particularly when there are still many years left on the overall term.
And the second thing to remember is that each month, a months worth of interest is added 
to Mr Ls mortgage, in advance. At this point, Mr Ls debt goes up. Mr L then makes his 
monthly payment, reducing his overall balance. Each month this process repeats. 
The effect of this, is that Mr Ls mortgage debt doesnt reduce in a straight line. It dips and 
rises, each month. Interest is charged to his mortgage at the start of each month. At this 
point, his debt goes up. Then, later in the month, when he pays, his debt goes down again. 
If Mr L were to miss a payment, his debt would then go up (when interest is added) and not 
go down again (no monthly payment). 
Theres no suggestion Mr L did miss a payment. But, importantly, Virgin assumed he would 
miss a payment, when it put together Mr Ls redemption statement. It said it couldnt take 
account of any payments not yet made in that statement, so it assumed he wouldnt pay in 
December. (I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable, as an approach for Virgin to take. And 
I note that Virgin was very clear, in its statement, that it hadnt accounted for a December 
payment. It said Mr L should call back, to get a new statement, if he did pay in December.)
So I think thats why Mr Ls redemption statement asked for more money than he expected. 
Because Virgin added the interest that Mr L would owe for all of December, and for the start 
of January (at a higher rate) into this overall debt. But it didnt add his December payment. 
Mr Ls said his offer document suggested on 1 December 2022, he would have an estimated 
loan balance of £269,777.33 in total, based on 58 payments. This is set out in his offer as 
the estimated balance on 1 December 2022, based on lending from 1 February 2018 until 1 
December 2022, so 58 payments covering lending over 58 months and one day. 
If we disregard, for simplicity, the fees of £80 that Virgin charged on redemption, and the 
final December payment which we know that Virgin received then returned, were left with 
the following  Virgins redemption statement, said Mr L would owe £270,299.19. Thats based on lending 
from 7 December 2017, to 3 January 2023 (but not including that December 2022 payment). 
So that total is based on 59 payments, covering lending over 60 months and 28 days. 
Mr L made one more monthly payment than the offer envisaged, in this longer period, but 
this debt includes the cost of lending (his interest charge) for almost two months more. I 
think thats why the figures are higher than he expected. I dont think theres any reason 
here, for me to think that Virgins calculations are wrong. 
Virgins redemption statement didnt include the December 2022 payment, which we know 
Mr L then made. Im satisfied that Mr L only made this one payment after his redemption 
statement was produced, and that Virgin then refunded this money to Mr L.
I understand that Mr L may not be content with my conclusions here. I think Mr L is unhappy 
with the detail of Virgins calculations, and it does appear as if he had hoped our service 
would audit his mortgage for him, as a first step towards then awarding him an amount that 
he considers hes been overcharged. 
These are very complex calculations, requiring specialist knowledge and taking considerable 
time to recreate. Our investigator explained that our service doesnt audit mortgages. And 
thats right, its just not compatible with our role as an informal dispute resolution service. Im 
sorry to have to tell Mr L that he will need to engage an auditor if he wants this level of 
forensic examination of this mortgage. 
All I can do is look at a high level at the issues raised. Ive considered the points Mr L has 
raised, to the extent that its appropriate for our service to do so, and those dont seem to me 
to show that Virgin has clearly overcharged Mr L. So I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for our service to order Virgin to make the additional payments that Mr L wants. 
I understand Mr L may well be very disappointed, both by the level of interrogation which our 
service can apply to the figures weve received, and with my overall conclusion, but I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman