DRN-2597727
The complaint
Mr Gs unhappy that he received less than he was expecting upon the maturity of his Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limiteds mortgage endowment policy.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision in January 2021, the findings of which stated:
I trust Mr G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Mr G has said he was unaware his direct debit had been cancelled. Ive considered this 
point very carefully but Im not persuaded by it. The cancellation notice from Mr Gs bank 
is that it had been cancelled by the payer; that is, Mr G. The timing of the cancellation 
also tied in (to the day) with the point Mr G complained his endowment policy had been 
mis-sold. On balance I consider it unlikely that there was an error with the direct debit that 
led to it incorrectly showing as being cancelled by Mr G, at the exact time Mr G made a 
complaint about the policy being suitable for his needs. It seems more likely that Mr G 
made the decision to stop paying into the policy at the same time he made the decision to 
complain the policy had been mis-sold.
Thats not to say I believe Mr G has made this complaint in anything other than good 
faith. This all happened quite a few years ago and memories fade, so I think its most 
likely that Mr G simply forgot about the cancellation especially bearing in mind that Aviva 
didnt send him anything over the years to remind him of that fact. In any event, it was 
ultimately Mr Gs responsibility to make sure the premiums were paid  and it should have 
been apparent from his bank account that hed not paid £52.18 a month for a period of 
over five years - not Avivas responsibility to chase Mr G up for them.
The misleading information given by Aviva in its correspondence over the years is whats 
called a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints about misrepresentations, 
we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would 
be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they 
would be in if it had been correct.
Mr G wasnt reminded hed stopping paying the premiums to his policy and the letters 
projected hed receive more in 2019 than he was eligible for, albeit Mr G already knew 
about the risks of the policy and that any potential future value couldnt be guaranteed. 
Had that not happened Mr G would have understood the correct information; that is, the 
policy wasnt eligible for the ongoing bonuses due to his non-payment of the premiums 
since 2014.
Mr G could never have received more than he did considering that he stopped paying the 
premiums in 2014, so it wouldnt be fair to tell Aviva it has to pay him more now. It 
wouldnt be the correct remedy for this misrepresentation. The correct remedy was that 
which was given by Aviva, a payment of compensation in recognition of the confusion 
caused. As it already offered this when it dealt with the complaint I dont think its fair to 
tell Aviva to do anything else.
Were not the regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. Aviva 
has apologised for the mistakes and paid £250 compensation and having considered 
everything Im satisfied thats a fair outcome.
Aviva confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr G didnt respond, despite a voicemail being 
left for him and chaser emails being sent with a reminder of the deadline. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the full file again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider the compensation of £250 already paid 
by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman