DRN-1554167
 
complaint
Mrs C complains she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
background
Mrs C took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1999. In 2002 she took a further advance and 
changed the term of her mortgage.  At the same time she took out a PPI policy which would 
have covered her mortgage repayments for up to 24 months at a time if she couldnt work. 
Mrs C says the terms and conditions werent explained to her. She says had they been 
explained she wouldnt have bought the policy because she didnt need it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Over 17 years have passed since the sale of the PPI, so  unsurprisingly  neither party has 
all the original documents used during the sale. 
Mrs C doesnt suggest she didnt have a choice about buying the PPI and looking at the 
available documents Im satisfied Mrs C bought the PPI knowing she had a choice. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mrs Cs PPI application form. It shows that the PPI was 
optional and explains the basics of the cover. It also refers Mrs C to the accompanying 
information leaflet. Mrs C completed some basic personal details and questions about her 
eligibility for the cover and she signed this form.
Nationwide say Mrs C wouldve then received a policy document, policy schedule and 
welcome letter. Its provided a sample copy of these. I have no reason to think Mrs C didnt 
get these, or that she didnt get similar documents each year at renewal. 
The policy schedule details the insurance, what it covered, the benefit period, the benefit 
amount and how much it cost. I think Mrs C would have had a good understanding of the 
policy shed bought from this information. 
Nationwide didnt give Mrs C a personal recommendation to buy the policy, so it didnt need 
to check it was right for her. But Nationwide did need to make sure Mrs C had enough 
information about the policy to make her own informed decision.Mrs C say she didnt need the cover because she had good benefits at work and some 
savings. But Nationwide didnt have an obligation to check the PPI was right for her. I am 
satisfied that Mrs C would have  as a very minimum - understood she was buying a policy 
designed to meet her mortgage repayments if she couldnt work. So, it was up to Mrs C to 
decide whether she needed the cover.
Its possible Mrs C didnt fully understand the finer detail about the cover. But looking at Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for her, so even if Mrs C 
had fully understood it I dont think she would have acted differently and not bought the 
policy. She was eligible for it and wasnt affected by any of the terms or exclusions which 
might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around the 
same time. It was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial penalty. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mrs C lost out because of anything Nationwide might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman