DRN-4297526
The complaint
Ls director (Mrs W) complains that Handelsbanken plc changed the address linked to its 
business account without permission. Mrs W also complains that Handelsbanken sent her 
correspondence that indicated she was still liable for a personal guarantee she gave. 
What happened
Mrs W is the director of L and another business Ill call B. Both businesses hold bank 
accounts with Handelsbanken. 
In February 2023 Handelsbanken says it received notification from Companies House that 
there had been a change in ownership and registered office for B. On 2 March 2023 
Handelsbanken wrote to Mrs W and asked her to respond confirming changes to Bs 
structure. 
On 20 March 2023 Handelsbanken wrote to Mrs W in relation to both L and Bs accounts. 
Handelsbanken said it understood the correspondence address for L and B had changed 
and asked Mrs W to contact its branch to confirm the correct correspondence address for 
both businesses. Handelsbanken added that it had taken the step of retaining the bank 
statements in branch pending Mrs Ws instructions. 
Mrs W emailed Handelsbanken and asked where the information that Ls address had 
changed had come from. Mrs W also raised some concerns in relation to a personal 
guarantee shed given. 
Handelsbanken issued a final response on 10 May 2023 and said it had become aware it 
may not be appropriate to continue to send confidential information to the address linked to 
Ls account. Handelsbanken says it wrote to Mrs W on 20 March 2023 to check the correct 
address for future correspondence and apologised for any inconvenience caused. 
Handelsbanken requested Mrs W confirm the correspondence address for L to use going 
forward. 
Mrs W responded to Handelsbanken and said it had failed to answer her questions. A follow 
up final response was issued on 31 May 2023. Handelsbanken said the correspondence 
address for L had been saved as Mrs Ws home address. Handelsbanken added that no 
instruction to change Ls address was received but a branch decision had been taken to 
retain statements until a formal request to amend it was received. 
Mrs W referred Ls complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld Ls complaint and asked Handelsbanken to pay £75 for the 
inconvenience caused and said the information it gave Mrs W couldve been clearer. 
Handelsbanken agreed but Mrs W asked to appeal Ls case to an ombudsman. Mrs W said 
that at no time had Ls registered offices changed on Companies House and that she is 
unaware of anyone giving instructions concerning a potential change. As Mrs W asked to 
appeal Ls case, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mrs W has raised concerns about issues relating to a personal guarantee she 
gave Handelsbanken. The investigator recently contacted Mrs W and explained that as the 
guarantee was in her personal name we cant deal with it in this decision. Mrs W confirmed 
she understands this decision will only relate to Ls complaint about Handelsbanken. 
In response to the investigator, Mrs W asked to see an instruction or letter Handelsbanken 
had received concerning a change to Ls address. But Handelsbanken didnt receive an 
instruction of that nature. I recently contacted Handelsbanken for more information and it 
explained that it received a Companies House notification in relation to B, which Mrs W is 
also a director of. Handelsbanken has explained that it is aware that Mrs W is the director of 
both B and L so took a precautionary step to redirect Ls correspondence to the branch. But 
there was no specific instruction received from Companies House or anyone else that said 
Ls registered address had changed. 
I agree with the investigator that Handelsbanken didnt clearly explain why Ls 
correspondence was redirected to the branch. But I accept Handelsbanken was looking to 
ensure private correspondence wasnt sent to an out of date address. And because 
Handelsbanken knew Bs details had changed and Mrs W is linked to both businesses, I 
think it was reasonable for it to temporarily restrict correspondence and request confirmation 
of the correct address. 
The investigator upheld Ls complaint and asked Handelsbanken to pay £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. I agree there was some inconvenience caused to L and I think a 
payment of £75 reflects what happened and is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Handelsbanken plc to pay L £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman