DRN-3419592
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd blocked access to his account, and hed like compensation 
for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr B had an account with Revolut.
In December 2020 Revolut restricted access to Mr Bs account. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Revoluts actions, in particular around £280 which was held in his 
account  but the e-money provider reviewed their actions and thought theyd acted fairly in 
restricting his account. 
And on 21 January 2021 Revolut advised Mr B they were closing his account in seven days, 
and hed need to withdraw his funds. 
Mr B withdrew the majority of his funds apart from a very small amount in pound sterling and 
euros. 
On Mr Bs case being brought to our service Revolut offered Mr B £20 to settle the 
complaint. Mr B didnt accept this. And the e-money provider subsequently withdrew the 
offer. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. They thought Revolut acted fairly in 
restricting Mr Bs account, but the e-money provider shouldnt have charged Mr B the full fee 
he was paying for a plan, considering he only had access for half of December. Our 
investigator recommended Revolut refund Mr B 50% of £12.99 plus 8% interest.
Revolut accepted our investigators view, but Revolut didnt. 
So the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Revoluts actions in restricting Mr Bs access to his account. And I know this 
will disappoint Mr B, but having reviewed Revoluts terms and conditions Im satisfied the e-
money provider was entitled to restrict his account. And they dont need to provide him with 
any reason for this. I appreciate this caused him inconvenience, but I cant say Revolut acted 
unfairly when taking this action. 
I do however agree with our investigator that Mr B shouldnt be charged £12.99 for a full 
month fee when he only had access to his Revolut account for half of the time  so I think a 
50% refund would be appropriate here. 
Ive considered whether Revolut should honour the £20 offer they previously made  
however Im satisfied its reasonable for them to withdraw this. I say this because Im 
satisfied overall, Revolut were entitled to restrict Mr Bs access  and by returning half of the 
fee they charged theyll be refunding Mr B for a service he was only able to partly use. Which 
Im satisfied is a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Im aware that Revolut have offered to transfer Mr B the remaining funds in his pound 
sterling and euro account. If Mr B would like to obtain these funds hell need to contact 
Revolut directly. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think Revolut should refund Mr B 50% of the £12.99 fee 
plus interest from the date of the restriction to the date of payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Mr B 50% of the £12.99 fee plus 8% from the date of the restriction to the date of 
the refund. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman