DRN-4018345
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr H built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata 
Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr H had built up 19 years and 4 months pensionable service in the BSPS during two 
separate periods of service between November 1996 and March 2016. His aggregated 
annual scheme pension (for both periods of pensionable service) as at the date of leaving 
the scheme in March 2016 was £11,843.63. This would be revalued over the term to 
retirement by a prescribed amount (by September 2017 it had been revalued to £12,098.29).
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  
under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees of the BSPS 
to start to talk to members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack 
being issued to members, including Mr H, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail 
about the three options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr H was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted IFM for advice. A 
document titled Pension Review Questionnaire was used by IFM to record the following 
information about Mr H in October 2017:
He was aged 41, married and in good health. His wife was aged 38 and also in good 
health. They had three children aged between 15 and 22 who were financially 
dependent on them;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£33,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future. 
His wife was unemployed but expected to return to employed work in the near future;
Their assets comprised the marital home, the value of which wasnt recorded. They 
didnt have any other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised an outstanding mortgage of about £97,000 on the marital 
home, the monthly cost of which was £500. The remaining term wasnt recorded. 
They didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£100 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he expected to join 
Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme in the near future. The total 
annual contribution to be paid into his DC plan was expected to be 9% of his gross 
annual salary. He was also on course to receive the full state pension at age 67;
His wife didnt have any private pension arrangements;
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit of six times his 
salary; and
He was an inexperienced investor. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was 
lowest risk and 6 (Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 
3 or Conservative risk. This was defined as, You understand that you need to take 
investment risk in order to be able to meet your long-term goals. On this basis, you 
are willing to take a risk with at least part of your available assets.
IFMs adviser issued his suitability report on 1 November 2017. This explained to Mr H that 
he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits, as previously communicated by the 
BSPS. The BSPS offered Mr H an aggregated transfer value of £287,487.48 in respect of 
both periods of his pensionable service if he transferred to a PPP.
It was stated in the suitability report that Mr Hs primary objective regarding his safeguarded 
benefits was to retire earlier than the BSPS normal retirement age of 65, preferably around 
age 57 if his financial situation allowed it. There was also reference to Mr H preferring to 
draw flexible benefits, obtaining control over the value of his benefits and investment choice, 
and to maximise the death benefits available to his family. 
In reference to the critical yield, the adviser stated in the suitability report, I can confirm that 
our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual investment returns of 
typically around 6- 8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the benefits available at 65 from 
the current British Steel scheme. IFM also obtained transfer value analysis (TVAS) 
reports dated 3 October 2017 that showed the following information on the assumption that 
at age 65 Mr H took the full scheme pension only and no tax-free cash from the BSPS (these 
figures werent stated in the suitability report):
Annual scheme 
pension at Date of Revalued annual 
scheme pension at Critical yield to match 
revalued scheme Leaving 31/03/2016 age 65 pension at age 65
1st period of 
pensionable service£3,575.53 £6,546.02 6.8%
2nd period of 
pensionable service£8,268.10 £15,001.42 6.3%
£11,843.63 
(aggregated value)£21,547.44 
(aggregated value)
The TVAS calculations assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. And the critical yield figures at 
age 57  to align with the age at which Mr H wanted to retire  werent calculated.
IFMs adviser discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that Mr H 
accept the aggregated transfer value of £287,487.48 and transfer to a PPP provided by 
Royal London for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The charges associated with the recommendation and deducted from the PPP fund value 
were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.50% (or £4,350)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.40% investment annual management charge (the product charge was noted as 
nil)
0.40% ongoing annual advice charge payable to IFM
Mr H accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in Royal Londons Governed 
Portfolio 2 fund to align with Mr Hs Conservative risk profile. According to the suitability 
report, the Governed Portfolio 2 fund was appropriate for an investor who had a cautious 
attitude to risk over a medium time period away from retirement. 
This complaint
During 2022, the CMC, on behalf of Mr H, complained to IFM about the suitability of its 
pension transfer advice. It made a number of points about why it thought the advice was 
unsuitable and had caused Mr H to suffer a financial loss. It said that Mr H was in a 
particularly vulnerable position at the time of the advice because his wife had been 
diagnosed with a disabling disease and they had received a compulsory purchase order on the family home due to a new high speed rail scheme. In its view, suitable advice wouldve 
been to join the BSPS2. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr H was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr H to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from around age 57 to 58 and leave a 
lump sum to his beneficiaries on death. It stated its records from the time of the advice made 
no reference to her being in ill-health or that their home was subject to a compulsory 
purchase order. Overall, it was satisfied it had adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules 
and guidance including providing Mr H with all the necessary information and risk warnings 
in good time to be able to make an informed decision. It didnt believe the alternative options 
of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Hs objectives. In its view, the pension transfer to the 
PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. 
In February 2023, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that 
it be upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to 
the PPP was clearly in Mr Hs best interests compared to the alternative options. He thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr H transferred to the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that IFM pay Mr H £300 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr H, accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a 
response to our investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding on whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point 
raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
IFMs response to this complaint
IFM issued a final response letter to Mr H rejecting this complaint. But it didnt provide a 
response to our investigators assessment. Its unclear why. Regardless of its reasons, Ive 
decided that IFM has had sufficient time to respond and provide any additional comments or 
evidence for me to consider. Based on the available contemporaneous evidence, Im 
satisfied that I have sufficient information to be able to decide this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidanceThe below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr H were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr H, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Hs situation when IFM advised him
The situation for Mr H wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as stated by the BSPS in its Time to Choose 
communication pack and repeated by IFM in its suitability report.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr H. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married members or those who expected to draw benefits at or close to the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary 
increases to the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to 
transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the 
PPP option would be dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity 
rates available at retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level 
of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be the better option for Mr H based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Hs best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr H was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Hs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 19 years and 4 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of 
other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr H was likely to be heavily reliant 
on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income 
to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. In my view,             
Mr H had a very limited capacity for loss. So I think it was important not to expose the 
value of his safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control 
and maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
The primary aim of the pension transfer was so that Mr H could retire early, from 
around age 57 if his financial situation allowed it. But he was then aged 41 and so 
couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, 
with such a time frame until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for 
a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  
more difficult to justify;
I think the suitability report misled Mr H about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF option. It stated, Early retirement will not be an option under 
the PPF. This is incorrect since the PPF permits members to take benefits early 
from age 55 onwards subject to a reduction;
IFM stated that early retirement at age 55 was allowed under the BSPS subject to a 
30% reduction in the annual pension income. It stated that early retirement under the 
BSPS2 would likely be subject to a similar reduction. I think it portrayed the reduction 
as a penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the 
fact that the scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, 
and to protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what 
IFM said, its likely Mr H incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took 
benefits early under the BSPS2;
IFM stated in the suitability report, Your deferred pension available at age 65 
currently stands at a full pension of £12,098. But that was the revalued annual 
pension in September 2017 when Mr H was aged 41. According to the TVAS reports 
produced on 7 September 2017, the estimated revalued annual pension available at 
age 65 was £21,547.44. So the reference to £12,098 at age 65 was misleading;
IFMs adviser attempted to show in the suitability report the early retirement pension 
payable under the BSPS at age 55. He stated, For illustrative purposes only, if you 
were 55 now and retiring under the current British Steel scheme, the annual pension 
would be c£8,500 per year or c£6,000 with a tax-free lump sum of £40,000. But that 
illustration was potentially misleading for an inexperienced investor like Mr H. This is 
because that figure of £12,098 would need to be revalued to age 55 before the 30% 
reduction for early retirement was applied  but IFM applied it to the revalued annual 
pension in September 2017 when Mr H was aged 41. I think the way the information 
was presented may have misled Mr H to believe that the benefits payable by the 
BSPS (and therefore the BSPS2) at age 55 were lower than was actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr H so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
As noted above, the basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr H to retire immediately 
but instead at some indeterminate point in the future. The further away from 
retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure and 
whether early retirement would in fact be possible. I think it wouldve been difficult to 
calculate an accurate income figure with the time frame to age 57. Theres no evidence that IFM recorded Mr Hs target retirement income need when it advised 
him. Without understanding his retirement income need, I cannot see how IFM was 
able to clearly demonstrate that transferring to a PPP at that time was in Mr Hs best 
interests;
Overall, its my view that IFM failed to obtain the necessary information relating to             
Mr Hs financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure during 
retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer to a PPP to 
achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Hs 
retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed to establish 
this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in 
Mr Hs best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early retirement objective 
or whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65. And it seems IFM agreed 
because in its suitability report it stated, Given your age and that retirement is likely 
to be in excess of 15 years away, its impossible to know at this stage what type of 
retirement income will be the most appropriate choice for you in the future. In other 
words, its far too early to know whether the income flexibility offered by a Personal 
Pension for example or the availability of more tax-free cash will satisfy your needs 
better than the British Steel scheme. Any assessment now therefore is largely based 
on future investment performance of a personal pension and rather than the features 
of each solution and what suits your needs the best;
In connection with Mr Hs investment knowledge and experience, IFM recorded that 
he had about as much understanding as the next person. I dont know what this 
means or what it was based on. At the time of the advice he didnt have any savings 
or investments that indicated he had experience of investing. I havent seen any 
evidence that persuades me Mr H understood the investment, inflation and longevity 
risks associated with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to 
a PPP. Those risks wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that 
scheme  I cannot see that there was any compelling reason for Mr H to take on 
those risks at that time;
Had IFM advised Mr H to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 41; 
IFM recorded that Mr H preferred flexible income rather than guaranteed lifetime 
income. Its unclear why Mr H apparently didnt value guaranteed income. He had 
received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed retirement 
income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age wouldve 
been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr H was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. 
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr H had any 
concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits many years in the 
future. Theres no real evidence that Mr H required the flexibility of irregular lump 
sums or variable income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible 
needs couldve been met by his DC workplace pension. And hed also have access 
to tax-free cash under the BSPS2. This doesnt appear to have been adequately 
considered by IFM;IFM recorded that Mr H was concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and so wanted control over his pension. But he appears to have been a 
largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence he had 
experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. In my view,  
Mr H had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the risks 
involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr H was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. 
While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr H wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr H was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced and Conservative risk investor, he would accept the risk of 
transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks where 
the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt make sense to me; 
The suitability report mentioned that Mr H wanted to ensure any unused pension 
benefits be inherited by his family. While I understand that death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr H about 
what was best for his own retirement provision. He was in good health at the time. 
Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  
could be much smaller than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr H. 
Through his employment he had a generous lump sum death in service benefit. And 
the BSPS2 (had he been advised to select that option) would refund his personal 
contributions carried through from the BSPS, which by that point were about £34,309 
plus interest, as a lump sum. In addition, the value of his DC workplace pension plan 
would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear his family would receive a 
large (relative to what was recorded about their wider financial situation) lump sum 
death benefit from other sources in the event of his death. These factors dont appear 
to have been adequately considered by IFM;
Its my view that Mr H had no health issues at the time IFM advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not 
convinced there was any real merit in him transferring to a PPP at that time to 
provide a lump sum death benefit at the cost of losing valuable benefit guarantees;
The TVAS calculations showed that the critical yield figures to match the benefits 
under the BSPS at age 65 ranged between was 6.3% to 6.8% (for the separate 
periods of pensionable service). This compared with a discount rate of 4.6% at age 
65, as explained by our investigator in his assessment. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its my view that a required investment 
growth rate ranging between 6.3% and 6.8% was incompatible with the discount rate, 
Mr Hs Conservative risk profile and the recommended Governed Portfolio 2 which 
was designed for investors with a cautious attitude to risk. I think these factors 
showed that it was likely Mr H would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figures of 6.3% and 6.8% were 
incorrect. This is because the basis of the advice was that IFM would provide ongoing advice to Mr H at an annual cost of 0.4% of the PPP fund value  but that 
cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical yield figures. Including 
that ongoing advice cost wouldve led to the critical yield being greater than stated 
which further increased the risk that Mr H would be worse off by transferring;
In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr H was seeking to take 
benefits at around age 57. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also 
calculate the critical yield figure at age 57 to enable Mr H to make an informed 
decision. But it didnt. I think this was a material oversight because the critical yield 
figure at age 57 wouldve been greater than stated due to the shorter investment 
timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This 
meant that Mr H wasnt provided accurate information about the level of investment 
growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension if he took benefits early at 
age 57; 
The wording of the suitability report inappropriately downplayed the importance of the 
critical yield, stating that it will add no value to the process and the results of a 
TVAS are largely academic". I think IFMs approach to the transfer analysis was 
improper and prevented Mr H from making an informed decision; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Hs objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF, it included a generic critical yield figure of 6-8.0% rather than the 
actual critical yield figures of 6.3% and 6.8% as stated in the TVAS reports, 
downplayed the importance of the transfer analysis and misled him about the 
benefits payable by the scheme at ages 55 and 65. And it failed to provide sufficient 
information on the alternative options to achieve his stated objectives. I think these 
inadequacies in the suitability report led to Mr H making an uninformed decision to 
proceed with a pension transfer when this was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
In my view, Mr Hs objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility, flexible death 
benefits and control over investment choice were recorded in a generic way, suggesting that 
IFM used a standardised templated approach to pension transfer advice. Theres no 
evidence that the stated objectives were properly explored, scrutinised and challenged by 
IFM to ensure they were appropriate and achievable, particularly the desire to retire early.
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Hs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
age, good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr H couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr H gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Properly advised, I think Mr H wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 and his benefits would now 
be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that it was recorded he wanted to retire at 
around age 57. However, he was about 16 years away from that target retirement age when 
IFM advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about retirement can change over such a 
long period of time. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient contemporaneous evidence that 
supports the position Mr H wouldve started taking his safeguarded benefits which involved 
taking a regular income at age 57. And Im not convinced it could be reasonably determined 
at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr H. And so I think, given his age 
and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better 
option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would 
provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of 
entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the 
BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the reasons explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the CMC, on behalf of Mr H, and our service 
upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr H accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr H the balance. 
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr H can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman