DRN-2880504
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on his 
mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). 
What happened
Mr K applied for this buy-to-let mortgage on a non-advised basis. A mortgage offer was 
issued in September 2018 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That said Mr K 
was borrowing £202,000 over 25 years on an interest-only basis. The product was called 
BTL Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, currently 2.09%, 
which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard 
Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. The 
mortgage completed later that month.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr K complained to Coventry after the base rate reduction as he was unhappy that Coventry 
hadnt reduced his interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for Term product 
the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 4 May 2020 that it 
needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole, and its priority had been to 
reduce interest rates for those borrowers who were on higher rates. It reminded Mr K that 
there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so he could move to a different product  or 
lender  if he wanted to. It also said it had listened to the calls from when Mr K applied for 
the mortgage, and in those he was told on more than one occasion that the rate is set 
independently from the base rate.
As Mr K didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered 
the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr K aware of the type of interest rate he was taking out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr K either taking a new product with Coventry or 
moving his mortgage to a new lender if he felt the interest rate was no longer 
competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. He felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rate of 2.09% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Whilst Mr K paid a large product fee, his Flexx for Term product has operated in line 
with the terms he agreed to.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said, in summary:
The advisor said that on this product there has been a fall in the rate historically but 
not necessarily in line with the Bank of England base rate changes. Only on that 
basis did I take the product.
Coventry hasnt published any information on why it has decided to not lower the 
rate, so borrowers are left in the dark.
Coventry is answerable to its members and theyve been denied the right to question 
and hold the board to account. Coventry wont give the names of the board members 
that made the decision, and he wants this service to  ask the CBS BOARD TO 
GIVE A EXPLANATION SO THAT WE AS MEMBERS can have a meaningful 
understanding of the rationale and hold the board to account.
He wants to know if Coventry will refund the monies paid by him and other borrowers 
if they decide to leave en masse.
As he didnt accept our investigators findings, Mr K asked that his complaint be passed to 
an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
Mr Ks questions, nor will I be ordering Coventry to. I also wont be ordering Coventry to 
provide Mr K with a list of the board members involved in the decision, or to provide an 
explanation and/or publish information about the decision.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr K but its the nature of what 
we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are 
based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr K entered into, and whether the 
nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry at the time. As Mr K didnt receive 
advice from Coventry it didnt have to ensure the product was suitable for his needs.What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
BFC65 - BTL Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 2.09%, which is managed by 
Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 2.09%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Ive listened to the calls that took place when Mr S applied for the product. In those Mr S was 
told that the rate is set by Coventry and if the base rate changes it doesnt necessarily mean 
that the Flexx for Term rate would change. He was, on one occasion, told it would change in 
line with the base rate, but the call handler corrected that information later in the call saying 
that it was dependent on what Coventrys executives decided. In both the calls before and 
after that one Mr K was told the product doesnt follow base rate. 
In fact, whilst Coventry changed the products rate by the same differential the five previous 
times the base rate had changed (before March 2020), the three base rate changes before 
that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential change across the board.
I understand Mr K believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the base rate 
is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr K that his interest rate would always 
change in line with the base rate, and his mortgage offer clearly explains the interest rate is 
set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although 
Im satisfied Mr K wasnt misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I still need 
to decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to not reduce the interest rate in 2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue K booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
5.1 We may change the Interest Rate for any of the following reasons (which may relate 
to circumstances existing at the time or those which we reasonably expect to apply in 
the near future):
5.1.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate (or, if that rate has 
ceased to exist, the equivalent lending rate set by the Bank of England or by any 
central bank that has replaced it);
5.1.2 to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
5.1.3 to meet relevant regulatory requirements;5.1.4 to respond to new or amended statements or codes of practice designed to 
enhance consumer protection; or
5.1.5 to respond to changes in the costs legitimately incurred by us in conducting our 
mortgage lending activities, including the cost of funding those activities.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Just because the base rate decreased in March 2020, doesnt mean that Coventrys costs 
also decreased as the costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to 
Mr Ks mortgage in isolation. The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional 
costs across its mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment 
deferrals meaning mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to 
move to a remote way of working, and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. 
Im satisfied that Coventry has shown us its costs increased in 2020 even though the base 
rate fell. That information has been provided in confidence as it is commercially sensitive, so 
were unable to disclose it to Mr K.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr K (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard variable 
rate, compared to the 2.09% Mr K was paying). That seems a fair decision for Coventry to 
have made. 
It is unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Coventry suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Coventry 
had reduced the interest rate for its Flexx for Term products by the same amount of 
percentage points.
The product Mr K has allows him the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with 
Coventry at any time if he no longer felt the Flexx for Term product offered value for money. 
Im satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr Ks mortgage if he had 
wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) to pay or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
He could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if he felt the interest 
rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr K doesnt have to 
move to another Coventry product, or to another lender, if he doesnt want to. But if he 
doesnt do so then Mr K will remain on the 2.09% Flexx for Term interest rate  which 
Coventry may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in the future.
From my wider knowledge of the buy-to-let mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate 
even remaining at 2.09% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product 
offers. However, if Mr K doesnt agree he has the option to remortgage to another lender and 
the only cost currently of ending this Coventry mortgage is a £125 mortgage exit fee (as set 
out in his mortgage offer). Alternatively that fee wouldnt be charged if he chooses to simply 
change to a new product with Coventry instead. There are no grounds for me to order Coventry to waive the £125 mortgage exit fee as Im satisfied Mr Ks mortgage has operated 
in line with the product terms he agreed to when he took the mortgage out.
I understand the process to take out a new product is fairly straightforward and makes it 
easy for existing customers to get access to new interest rate products. So Im satisfied 
there were no practical or contractual barriers preventing Mr K from coming out of this 
mortgage product if he wanted to look for another interest rate either with Coventry or 
elsewhere.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ks frustration that his mortgage interest rate wasnt reduced Im 
satisfied Coventry didnt act unfairly when it didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the 
base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr K may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman