DRN-2048690
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A has turned down a medical expenses claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs Es represented by Ms L.
What happened
In June 2018, Mrs E took out an annual travel insurance policy online. Mrs E travelled 
abroad in April 2019. Unfortunately, she suffered a stroke and was admitted to hospital. Mrs 
E made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the medical expenses she incurred. She 
underwent treatment including physiotherapy and an MRI to check whether shed be fit to fly 
home.
Mapfres assistance company looked into the claim. It obtained Mrs Es authority to get her 
medical records from her GP so it could assess whether the claim was covered. In May 
2019, it let Mrs E know that it wasnt going to pay her claim. When Mrs E had taken out the 
policy, shed declared that she had diabetes and hypertension. But Mrs Es medical records 
showed she suffered from a number of other conditions which she hadnt told Mapfre about. 
It said if she had declared her full medical history at the point of sale, it would never have 
offered her an insurance policy.
Mrs E wasnt happy with Mapfres decision and Ms L complained. She said Mapfre had told 
the treating hospital that the claim would be covered. And that Mrs E had declared all of the 
conditions she knew about.
Mapfre maintained its position. But it focused on two of Mrs Es undisclosed conditions which 
it thought Mrs E wouldve known about and ought to have declared  chronic kidney disease 
(CKD) and asthma. It said that even if Mrs E had only disclosed those conditions on top of 
diabetes and hypertension, it wouldnt have offered her insurance. 
It referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
which said that if a consumer hadnt taken reasonable care to answer an insurers questions 
at the point of policy sale, an insurer can re-underwrite the policy as if it had all of the 
information it needed to know. In this case, Mapfre wouldnt have offered Mrs E a policy and 
so it offered to refund the premium shed paid.
Mrs E remained unhappy with Mapfres decision and so Mrs L asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs E shouldve 
been prompted to declare asthma and CKD when she took out the policy. He was satisfied 
that if Mrs E had disclosed those conditions, Mapfre wouldnt have offered cover. So he 
concluded it was entitled to cancel the policy and refund the premiums in line with CIDRA. 
He also considered what wouldve happened if Mapfre had told Mrs E upfront that her claim 
wouldnt be paid. And he thought, given the nature of her illness, that she still wouldve 
undergone the same medical treatment.
Ms L disagreed. She said Mapfre shouldve made it clear that it was checking whether the 
claim would be covered and shed have been better prepared for what happened. She also 
felt the claims process shouldve been explained at the point of sale. Mrs E was also sure 
shed disclosed asthma previously.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mapfre has treated Mrs E fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the terms of Mrs Es 
policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether Mapfre considered it fairly.
When Mrs E took out the policy online, she was asked information about herself, her trip and 
her medical conditions. Mapfre used this information to decide whether or not to insure Mrs 
E and if so, on what terms.
Mapfre says that Mrs E didnt correctly answer the questions she was asked during the 
medical screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable 
to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mrs Es claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were when Mrs E took out the 
policy online.
Mapfre has provided me with a copy of the sales process Mrs E wouldve followed when she 
took out the policy.  One screen refers to pre-existing medical conditions and it says:
This insurance policy contains health restrictions and exclusions that apply to the cover 
provided under the Cancellation, Curtailment. Medical Expenses. Hospital Benefit and 
Personal Accident sections.
If you make a claim for anything directly or indirectly related to a pre-existing medical
condition that you have not declared and has not been agreed by us in writing, your
claim will be declined.
We need to know if you or anyone named on this policy or anyone on whose health your
journey depends is currently:
 waiting for any tests, test results, investigations or receiving treatment or
 using prescribed medication for any condition or set of symptoms that may or may not
have been diagnosed;
We also need to know if in the last three (3) years you or anyone named on this policy havebeen referred to or seen by a Hospital Doctor or Surgeon, been prescribed medication or 
treatment or had any hospital in-patient or out-patient treatment.
AND
We need to know if you or anyone named on this policy have EVER suffered from or 
received medical advice, treatment or medication for:
 any heart-related, hyper-tension, blood circulatory, stroke, renal failure or diabetic 
condition:
 any breathing condition which can include a condition that has required the use of
supplementary oxygen or the use of a nebuliser or inhaler;
 any cancer.
Mrs E was then asked who would need to declare medical conditions. She went on to 
declare diabetes and hypertension. So Im satisfied the information Mrs E was given was 
clear enough to prompt her to tell Mapfre about her medical history.
Mapfre maintains that in addition to the conditions that Mrs E did declare, she should also 
have disclosed asthma and CKD. So Ive looked at Mrs Es medical records to decide 
whether I think she took reasonable care to answer Mapfres questions about her health.
Mrs Es medical records indicate that shed been diagnosed with asthma in 1990. Shed 
been prescribed inhalers to treat the condition; underwent regular reviews during 2017 and 
2018 and in January 2018, shed been admitted to hospital with an exacerbation of asthma.  
The records also show that Mrs E was diagnosed with CKD in 2009. Her notes show that 
she was under the care of a renal consultant and she had a few appointments with the 
consultant during the five months before she bought the policy. In the consultants letters, he 
refers to CKD as one of Mrs Es diagnoses and linked anaemia she suffered from to CKD, 
The GP also stated that Mrs Es CKD was a chronic condition.
Based on this evidence, I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to conclude both that Mrs E 
most likely knew about these diagnoses and that she shouldve disclosed them during 
medical screening. While Ive thought carefully about what Ms L said about Mrs Es 
awareness of her medical history, I think the available medical evidence shows Mrs E was 
most likely aware of CKD, not least given her recent care from the renal clinic. And Ms L now 
says Mrs E did previously declare asthma, so she acknowledges Mrs E was aware of her 
condition and that it needed to be declared. 
So I think its clear these conditions do fall within the scope of Mapfres questions. And 
considering everything, I think Mapfres information was clear enough that Mrs E shouldve 
been prompted to tell it about these conditions. I appreciate Ms L now says Mrs E thought 
she had previously told Mapfre about asthma. But this isnt recorded on Mapfres records of 
the medical screening or on the schedule Mrs E was sent. If she felt shed declared this and 
Mapfre had agreed to cover it, I think she shouldve been prompted to call Mapfre about this 
to question why asthma hadnt been included.
Overall, I think Mrs E did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think 
Mapfre is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. But Mapfre 
doesnt think Mrs E deliberately sought to mislead it about her health. It concluded she made 
a careless mistake. Based on the available medical evidence and the clarity of the question 
Mrs E was asked, I think this was a reasonable conclusion for Mapfre to reach.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if an insurer would never have offered 
a policy at all if itd been aware of the all of the relevant information, its entitled to cancel the 
policy from the start and refund the premium a policyholder paid. In this case, Mapfre has 
provided evidence to show that if Mrs E had declared asthma and CKD on top of the conditions shed already declared, the risk wouldve been too high for it to offer her an 
insurance policy. Its also offered to refund the premium Mrs E paid. So Im satisfied that by 
turning down Mrs Es claim and cancelling the policy, Mapfre acted in line with the Act.
Ms L feels Mapfre should pay Mrs Es claim because they said Mapfre told the treating 
hospital shed be covered. Mapfre says theres no evidence to suggest this was the case. I 
accept its possible that Mapfre did tell the hospital itd pay Mrs Es claim. But Ms L hasnt 
suggested Mrs E wouldnt have sought treatment if shed known the claim wouldnt be paid. 
And I agree with the investigator that given Mrs E had had a stroke, which usually requires 
emergency treatment; she would still have needed to undergo the same hospital care and 
treatment even if Mapfre had turned the claim down immediately. The airline would also 
have needed medical evidence to show Mrs E was fit to fly before she could return home.
I appreciate Mrs E feels she shouldve been told upfront that cover was dependent on the 
assessment of her medical records. And that this shouldve been drawn to her attention at 
the time she bought the policy. Most, if not all, travel insurers wont confirm theyll pay a 
claim without assessing the available medical evidence and in some cases, GP records. 
This is a common process. So I dont think Mrs E wouldve been able to find a policy which 
didnt include this as part of its claims process. Ive also explained that I think Mrs E wouldve 
still undergone treatment regardless of Mapfres claims decision. So even if it didnt tell her 
or her representative upfront that it would need to investigate the claim before confirming 
cover, I dont think she lost out as a result.
Overall, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mrs Es claim. Mapfre should now get in 
touch with Mrs E to arrange a refund of her premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman