DRN-4192104
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
(Halifax).They complain that Halifax wont extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have an interest only mortgage that expired on 31 July 2022. They werent in a 
position to repay the balance of the mortgage at the end of its term. After a number of 
discussions Halifax extended their mortgage until 7 March 2023 to give them time to 
consider their options. Halifax has now asked Mr and Mrs L to repay their mortgage and said 
they will look to repossess the property if they dont do so.
Mr and Mrs L dont think Halifax has treated them fairly. They say they kept up with their 
repayments during the term of the mortgage, have significant equity in their property and 
have also made overpayments to reduce the amount they owe. As things stand today they 
want Halifax to extend their mortgage for another year to give them time to explore all the 
possibilities open to them and avoid having to apply for a lifetime mortgage to repay what 
they owe.
Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong. It says it isnt prepared to extend Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage further as they havent provided it with evidence that theyll be able to repay what 
they owe at the end of the mortgage extension. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt think Halifax had acted unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that when Mr and Mrs L took out their mortgage, they agreed to repay the 
balance at the end of the term in July 2022. So its reasonable that Halifax expected them to 
do that. Halifax wasnt required to extend their mortgage. However, it needed to consider 
any requests Mr and Mrs L made to extend their mortgage fairly and reasonably. 
Halifax has told us that in July 2022 Mr and Mrs L told them they were looking to re 
mortgage with another lender. So it put the mortgage on hold until mid-August 2022. In early 
August 2022 Mr and Mrs L told it they werent able to do that so Halifax put the mortgage on 
hold for another three months to give them time to speak to an independent financial 
adviser. After this Mr and Mrs L asked for a five year mortgage extension. They said they 
were waiting for money to come through from a project/investment. But they didnt provide 
evidence to support what theyd said. Halifax extended their mortgage until March 2023 but 
are still unwilling to extend the mortgage (even for a year) unless Mr and Mrs L can provide 
documentation to show that they will be able to repay the mortgage in that time. 
I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably in the way that it has handled this matter. I can 
see that it has effectively extended Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage for a year since it expired in 
July 2022. It did this to give them time to explore their options and provide it with evidence to 
show that theyll be in a position to repay it in full at the end of an extended term. 
Mr and Mrs L havent been able to show this. Theyve said that theyre involved in a sensitive 
international project that will provide them with a significant amount of money in the future. 
Theyve provided some details: theyve said they are owed a significant amount of money 
from the project, that they earn £1,000 a month from it and expect dividends in the future. 
However, they havent been able to provide any documentation to support what theyve said. 
So I can understand why Halifax has declined to extend the mortgage further.
I dont underestimate Mr and Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this issue. Theyve told us 
about the impact this is having on their health and wellbeing, and how they dont want to 
have to take a lifetime mortgage out until theyve explored all other possibilities. However, I 
dont think Halifax has done anything wrong for the reasons set out above. So while I expect 
Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision, Im afraid I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman