DRN-1782428
 
The complaint
Mr B says Citifinancial Europe Limited (when it was trading as Citifinancial Europe plc) mis-
sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) is now responsible for the 
administration of the complaint, so I will refer to Canada Square as the business responsible 
for the sale in this final decision. 
What happened
Mr B was sold a single premium PPI policy when he took out a personal loan with Canada 
Square in 2003. The cost of the policy was added to his loan and he paid interest on it. The 
policy provided cover for Mr B if he was off work because of sickness or accident. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs complaint upheld it. She didnt think Canada Square 
had made the policys cost clear enough to Mr B. Canada Square didn't agree with the 
adjudicator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, I think Canada Square recommended the PPI to Mr B. So it needed to 
make sure it was right for him in his particular circumstances. It also needed to give Mr 
B information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think Canada 
Square did this.
I can see the cost of the single premium for the policy was set out in the insurance 
application form that was filled in by Canada Squares adviser and signed by Mr B. And this 
cost was also included in the loan agreement he signed, although it was combined with 
another insurance he took out. 
But there was nothing in these or any other documents to show Mr B how much interest he'd 
be charged on the PPI premium over the life of the loan. And I haven't seen anything that 
showed Mr B what the total cost of the PPI, including the interest, would be.
In addition, there isn't anything to show Mr B how much of his monthly loan repayment would 
relate to the PPI costs  and this is something I think it wouldve been good practice for 
Canada Square to give him. Canada Square considers the information in the application form and loan agreement was 
clear enough to make Mr B aware that his repayments and applicable interest were 
calculated on the total amount of credit - which included the PPI premium.
It also considers the amount of interest on the PPI premium was easy to calculate. But I 
disagree, because Canada Square hasn't been able to tell me how much the PPI interest 
was. So I don't think it would've been immediately obvious to Mr B how much interest he 
would be paying on the PPI premium, or that it would've been easy for him to calculate.
It's possible that the missing information about the cost of Mr Bs policy could've represented 
quite a lot of money, within the context of his overall borrowing. I think that wouldve 
mattered to Mr B when it came to making an informed decision about whether he wanted the 
cover. From what I've seen and been told, I dont think I can safely say hed have thought 
the PPI was good value for money if Canada Square had given him better cost information 
than it did. It follows I think Mr B has lost out because of what Canada Square has done 
wrong and so it should put things right.  
Putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid. 
So, Canada Square should:
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. 
Canada Square must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Canada Square Operations Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr B in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman