DRN-3112279
Complaint
Ms S hasnt accepted what Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has agreed to do to put things right 
after she complained it unfairly added interest, fees and charges to her overdraft when she 
was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that BOS needed to refund the 
interest, fees and charges added to Ms S account from April 2017 onwards. BOS agreed 
but Ms S didnt accept its offer and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
BOS has accepted that it should have realised that Ms S may have been in financial difficulty 
by April 2017 at the very latest. It has agreed to refund any interest, fees and charges added 
to Ms S account from this period onwards. It has also agreed to amend the information it 
has recorded on Ms S credit file to reflect what would have been recorded had it began the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to the overdraft from April 2017. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it 
should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what BOS has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Ms S has been left with an outstanding balance even though any credits shes 
made to her account have been factored in and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied. So while Ms S has been left with an outstanding balance to repay and 
she might be unhappy with this, BOS has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ms S hasnt provided any reasons for not accepting BOSs offer here. So Ive not been 
persuaded that theres a strong reason to depart from our usual approach to putting things 
right in this case. Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that what BOS has already offered to do 
to put things right for Ms S  reworking her account so that all the interest, fees and charges 
paid from April 2017 are removed and reflecting what would have been recorded on Ms S 
credit file had it began the process of taking corrective action in relation to the overdraft at 
this stage  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring BOS to do anything more and I leave it up to Ms S to decide whether 
she wishes to accept BOS offer.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
offered to do to put things right for Ms S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more or anything further.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman