DRN-3672344
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H complain St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt make 
clear early withdrawal charges would apply when they made certain investments. 
Background
Ms H and Mr H informed SJP they had decided to change adviser from SJP and move their 
investments from SJP. They explained they were not comfortable with SJPs overall strategy 
for their wealth, or with how SJP had managed their investments or with the transparency of 
its advice or with the investment charges they had incurred. 
Our investigator looked at and discussed a number of the above issues and related matters. 
Ms H and Mr H indicated they agree with some but not all of our investigators findings but 
the issue they wished to have considered further was that of the early withdrawal charges. 
There are also issues Ms H and Mr H have raised that arent part of this complaint because 
they either have been or would need to be referred back to SJP to look into first before we 
could look into them. A point about SJPs fees was to be referred to SJP first, for example, 
so I wont consider that here.
Returning to the present complaint, Ms H and Mr H say they knew early withdrawal charges 
would apply to their regular savings and lump sum plans from the start - for six years for one 
and five years for the other. But they say they werent aware these charges would also apply 
to further lump sums or regular contribution increases, with the same five year or six year 
periods starting again from the date the further lump sum was paid or the increased regular 
contribution started. They say SJP is at fault for not making this clear to them. 
Ms H and Mr H have said they didnt realise their further contributions were going into new 
plans rather than into existing ones. When calculating early withdrawal charges, I gather that 
further lump sums and regular contribution increases to existing plans are distinguished from 
initial contributions - so the effect is as if new plans are started.
Our investigator thought the workings of the charges were set out in the information provided 
by SJP. Ms H and Mr H disagreed, agreeing that they were sent documents containing the 
information our investigator had referred to but believing these didnt read as clearly as our 
investigator thought. Indeed they thought the information could actually support the belief 
that there was only one period for early withdrawal charges - and that later payments would 
not extend that period. They said they heard nothing from their SJP adviser to point out to 
them that this wasnt the case.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Ms H and Mr H say they were aware of the early withdrawal charges when their first lump 
sum and regular contributions were made. I cant say exactly what was emphasised during 
discussions when further sums were invested, but the investment risk of the funds used by 
the plans and the costs associated with getting cash invested both meant the plans were 
unlikely to be suitable places to invest cash if that cash were needed in the short term. So 
every time Ms H and Mr H invested in the plans, the money was invested for the medium to 
long term and wasnt intended to be withdrawn in the short term. 
In view of this, it wouldnt be surprising if the discussions didnt focus on what would happen 
if the sums to be invested were taken out within a few years. The present focus on these 
charges arises in the context of Ms H and Mr Hs desire to move from SJP and use a new 
adviser. The expectation when money was added to the investments was that it would be 
invested for at least the medium term, so the charges associated with withdrawing funds in 
the near term wasnt, from what Ive seen, a focus in the same way at those times. 
That said, and although investment risk meant the value of what was invested in the plans 
could go down as well as up at any point, the illustrations did warn in particular of the risk 
that drawing out money in the early years could mean getting back less than had been put 
in. The early withdrawal charges were one of the reasons for this risk  so the illustrations 
did flag up the significance of those charges in that way and in general terms. Also specific 
information about early withdrawal penalties was included in the paperwork Ms H and Mr H 
were given, to which I now turn. 
The first plan to start was for a regular contribution and the key facts document for it said 
there would be a charge on ad-hoc withdrawals (but not regular withdrawals of up to 5% 
each year) during the first six years on a sliding scale from 6% in the first year to 1% in the 
sixth year. Ms H and Mr H say they understood the existence of this charge as it applied to 
this plan when it first started. 
The first regular contribution increase was made at the end of 2015. The key facts document 
for it refers to an early withdrawal charge of 6% in the first year reducing to nil after 6 years 
of the regular contribution remaining at the same level. 
Ms H and Mr H say it isnt clear this refers to a charge that applies for the first six years of 
the new regular contribution, rather than for the first six years since the plan started with the 
initial regular contribution amount. I see room for thinking that the words above referred to 
the same six-year period Ms H and Mr H were told about when they started their plan. But 
the reference to the charge reducing to zero so long as the regular contribution stays at the 
same level, does seem to me to raise a question about this - given that the contribution was 
being increased at that time. 
Also the key facts document gives figures showing the potential impact of charges, including 
early withdrawal charges, on the investment and it is clear that the figures cover the increase 
amount alone. They illustrate the potential returns on this amount alone - and not on the total 
regular contribution. So this tends to suggest that what is said elsewhere in the document 
refers to the increase amount rather than the original investment. But I conclude that this is 
not very clear from this document in isolation. 
Reference was made on the key facts document to a Key Features booklet, but I dont know 
what this contained. So I dont know whether this wouldve clarified the situation. But in my 
view clarification was provided when Ms H and Mr H next increased their regular contribution 
in 2017. The March suitability letter for that increase stated: An Early Withdrawal Charge 
will apply to money withdrawn from the International Regular Investment Bond within six years of being invested, including each regular contribution. So this makes clear that the 
incidence of the early withdrawals charge depends on how long the money being withdrawn 
has been invested  and not on how long the plan as a whole has been running.
Id add that the key facts illustrations said more information was available in the Terms and 
Conditions. I dont know whether these were provided at the time  it seems they were to be 
read with the policy schedule issued after the sale. But these did set out in detail how the 
early withdrawal charge worked, both for initial regular contributions and for increases. The 
text current at the time the first regular contribution was made said: If, within six years of the 
start of your Regular Investment or any increase to your Regular Investment, you withdraw 
some or all of the money from your Bond, we may deduct an Early Withdrawal Charge. 
There followed a table showing that the amount of the charge would vary according to the 
Years since the start of the initial Regular Investment or any increase to Regular 
Investments. So it is apparent from this that increases to a regular contribution will affect the 
incidence of the early withdrawal charge. 
The Terms and Conditions for the lump sum plan cover similar ground, saying the Early 
Withdrawal Charge depends on the number of years from the Investment Date and is 
calculated separately for the Initial Investment and for each Additional Investment. This point 
is also covered in the 2018 suitability report that was issued when the lump sum plan was 
first recommended. This says: An Early Withdrawal Charge will apply to money 
withdrawnwithin five years of being invested.
The first further lump sum contribution was made in 2019. The key facts for it refers to an 
early withdrawal charge which will apply if you withdraw your investment in the first five 
years on a reducing scale It also says: If, within the first five years of an investment, you 
withdraw more than 10% in any 12 months there will be a product early withdrawal 
charge The reference to these charges applying to the investment in my view makes 
clear that what is said applies to the contribution being made. Also the document as a whole 
covers the further contribution being made and illustrates the potential returns on that figure. 
It doesnt include the earlier investment amounts or the total of the investments. The 
illustration makes plain it is based on a total paid in which is only the increase amount. 
Ms H and Mr H made a further increase to the regular contribution amount in 2020. At that 
time a copy of the 2017 suitability letter was enclosed which, as Ive said above, explained 
that early withdrawal charges are made depending on how long the money being withdrawn 
has been invested. I dont know to what extent Ms H and Mr H reviewed this or turned their 
minds to this point at the time. But I note that this information about it was provided.
So, bearing in mind the general warnings that losses could arise if money was withdrawn 
soon after it was invested, and taking into account the information SJP did provide about the 
early withdrawal charges, Im not persuaded that had SJP given more information about this 
it wouldve put Ms H and Mr H off making the investments they made. I say this taking into 
account that the investments were made in expectation that the sums invested would be 
invested over the medium term and not be withdrawn in the short term. Also after information 
was given to Ms H and Mr H in 2017, which in my view did clearly show an early withdrawal 
charge would apply to a regular premium increase for six years just like it had applied to the 
original contribution, they still increased the contribution and did so again a few years later.
So, with all Ive said above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I note SJP offered Ms H and Mr H £250 for matters related to its handing of their complaint. 
It described this as a goodwill gesture, and the payment wasnt directly related to the matter 
Ive considered above. If Ms H and Mr H wish to accept that offer, they should approach SJP 
about it separately. Id like to thank Ms H and Mr H for the assistance they have given to our investigation and 
the prompt and courteous responses they have given to us throughout.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman