DRN-3685609
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money she was tricked into 
transferring to a fraudster. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs S fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam she opened a 
CB Payments electronic money account and deposited funds into it from her bank account. 
She used those funds to purchase cryptocurrency from a separate business  Coinbase UK. 
She then sent cryptocurrency from her Coinbase UK account to the fraudster.
In November 2020, Coinbase customers based in the EEA, like Mrs S, were asked to enter 
into a new agreement with two different businesses  Coinbase Ireland (which provided the 
electronic money services previously provided by CB Payments) and Coinbase Europe 
(which provided the cryptocurrency services previously provided by Coinbase UK).
When it became clear shed been the victim of a scam, Mrs S complained to Coinbase 
(responding on behalf of CB Payments/Coinbase Ireland and Coinbase UK/Europe). It said 
that it had no relationship with the recipient of her cryptocurrency, couldnt recover it and as 
shed carried out all of the activity herself, it wasnt responsible for her loss. 
Mrs S referred the matter to our service. CB Payments argued that our service had no power 
to consider the complaint as it didnt relate to the electronic money activities carried out by 
CB Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activities carried out by Coinbase 
UK/Europe. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought there were aspects of it that 
we could consider  specifically those which related to whether CB Payments had carried 
out adequate checks when she opened her account and whether it had properly monitored 
her account for unusual or out of character activity. The investigator reviewed those aspects 
of the complaint but didnt think that CB Payments had made an error. 
CB Payments didnt provide any further submissions, but Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint as she argued that it should have done more to warn her about the risk 
of investing in cryptocurrency and it didnt carry out appropriate anti-money laundering 
(AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. She also pointed to several codes of 
practice which she believed CB Payments had breached. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK or Coinbase Europe, so I dont need to comment on this further. 
As already mentioned, its also important to point out that after November 2020, Mrs S was 
no longer a customer of CB Payments. It follows that I can only consider the activity between 
October 2020 (when Mrs S opened the account) and November 2020 (when she accepted a 
new agreement with Coinbase Ireland). Of the over €30,000 Mrs S lost, the vast majority 
was deposited after she was no longer a customer of CB Payments.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S made the purchases of cryptocurrency from her CB Payments 
account herself. So, the starting point is that she, rather than CB Payments, is responsible 
for the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. 
This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of 
character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Ive noted that Mrs S CB Payments account was opened for the purpose of 
investing in the fraudulent scheme. That means there was no genuine account history for CB 
Payments to compare the disputed activity against. Im also conscious that a CB Payments 
account can only really be used for one purpose  to purchase cryptocurrency  and thats 
exactly what Mrs S was doing. 
So, I think it would have been difficult for CB Payments to recognise, based on the activity 
which took place, that Mrs S was falling victim to a scam.
Mrs S argues that CB Payments didnt carry out appropriate AML and KYC checks, but I 
dont agree. There doesnt seem to be any dispute that it was Mrs S who opened the 
account and that the source of her funds was entirely legitimate. So, I dont think there was 
any reason for CB Payments to be concerned and neither is it clear how further checks of 
this nature would have prevented the scam. I think its also important to state that the main 
purpose of AML regulations is to prevent the exploitation of the financial system by criminals 
to launder the proceeds of crime. Those aims arent necessarily aligned with the prevention 
of financial harm due to scams. 
What I think Mrs S suggests is that CB Payments ought to have carried out fairly detailed 
enquiries about why the account was opened and who the ultimate beneficiary of the 
cryptocurrency was, so that it could give a specific warning about proceeding with the 
transactions. But, I think this obligation would only be engaged where there was good 
reason to think that she might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. And, for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I dont think there was.  
Im afraid that much of the guidance quoted by Mrs S does not apply to electronic money
issuers such as CB Payments. The other guidance referenced does, I think, do little more
than support the idea that CB Payments had an obligation to be on the lookout for unusual
and out of character account activity (a fact Ive already accepted).
Finally, Im satisfied that Mrs S funds could not be recovered as it is accepted they were 
sent off the Coinbase platform, in cryptocurrency, to a third party.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman