DRN-2315488
The complaint
Mr H, on behalf of Company B (a limited company, of which he is one of two directors), is 
unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse money that was transferred to a 
fraudster.
For simplicity, although this is a complaint by Company B about its business account, I will 
refer to the director Mr H, rather than the limited company, throughout much of this decision 
 as it was Mr H who interacted with the fraudster (on behalf of Company B).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here in too much detail. 
But briefly, Mr H was the victim of a scam and thats accepted by everyone. As its not in 
dispute that what happened to Mr H was an act of fraud, Ive used the term fraudster to 
refer to the third party involved.
In late July 2019 Mr H was contacted by a fraudster - initially via text message. The 
fraudster, posing as Bank S - a different bank to HSBC and one that Mr H held a personal 
current account with - convinced him that his account was under threat from fraudsters. 
A few weeks before this, Mr H had unfortunately been the victim of fraud on his Bank S 
account. So Mr H says it came as no surprise to him that he had been contacted again by 
Bank S about another fraud.
Mr H says that, under the pretence of protecting himself from being the victim of fraud again, 
and to stop the fraudsters being able to follow the money, he was tricked by the fraudster 
into making a series of transfers from his Bank S account into different bank accounts  one 
of which was a £12,500 transfer to a business account he held with HSBC. 
Mr H was then advised by the fraudster to transfer £9,900 from that business account to a 
safe account with Bank S. However, this safe account was in fact an account controlled by 
the fraudster (and with a different bank, rather than Bank S). With hindsight, Mr H believes 
he may have been advised to transfer a lower amount than the full £12,500 in order to avoid 
bank security.
Its this £9,900 transfer thats the subject of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. HSBC believes one of those exceptions applies in this case 
namely that Mr H made the transfer of £9,900 without a reasonable basis for believing it was 
a legitimate transfer. 
 
The bank felt Mr H could have done more to prevent this fraud happening. In taking this 
view, HSBC said the consumer does not appear to have carried out even rudimentary 
research following the call from the scammer. In view of this, it does not believe Mr H met 
the requisite level of care expected of him under the CRM Code. HSBC does not consider 
that a reasonable person would have accepted such a request and, without any 
independent investigation, followed instructions from a cold-caller to transfer £9,900 to an 
account outside of the company control. 
HSBC also made a number of further points  including a view that Mr H could have 
discussed this at the time with the joint director of Company B and that the fraudsters initial 
text may have come from a different number to Bank Ss  in support of its position. 
To settle things, HSBC made an offer to return 50% of the £9,900 to Company B. It did not 
offer the full amount as it believes Mr H was careless, failing to take any steps to verify what 
he was being told. HSBC recommended that Mr H might contact Bank S to recover the 
remaining 50%.
Mr H says he feels let down by the banking system and has asked us to step in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the full £9,900 
Company B lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
I understand that Company B has already been refunded 50% of the loss (£4,950) by 
HSBC. In the circumstances, HSBC should therefore fairly and reasonably refund the 
remaining 50% (£4,950) to Company B, less any amount already paid/recovered.
The money was taken from Mr Hs business account (Company B). Its not clear how 
Company B would have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it ought 
reasonably to have done. So it should also pay interest on the money it should have 
refunded at 8% simple per year - from the date HSBC should have refunded this 
under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
Ive carefully considered all HSBCs representations about whether Mr H had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transfer was genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different outcome fundamentally to the one reached by the Investigator  who upheld this 
complaint. In particular, Im not persuaded, in all the circumstances, that the consumer failed 
to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to fully reimburse Mr H 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr H lacked a reasonable basis for believing the 
transfer was for legitimate reasons. The bank raised a number of points in support of its 
position  many of which were not, in my view, unreasonable things to think about as part of 
an investigation into this complaint. What I dont believe it has done adequately is weigh up 
why Mr H didnt make all the additional checks that it believes he could have done, or 
actions he could have taken, in all the circumstances at the time the transfer was made. The mere fact these things did not happen is not sufficient to meet the reasonable basis for 
belief exception of the CRM Code in all the circumstances of Mr Hs case. 
Only weeks prior to this unfortunate matter, Mr H had been the victim of fraud on his Bank S 
account. I can see on balance why this might reasonably have been weighing on his mind. 
He recalls that he asked the fraudster for identification and was told about recent 
purchases he had made and was given personal information  such as his mothers 
maiden name. This, Mr H remembers, made him trust that the fraudster was a bone fide 
staff member who could see his account there and then.
In the environment created by the fraudster, through the original text message and 
subsequent telephone conversation, Mr H says he was being told - only a relatively short 
time after being the victim of a different fraud - that his account was under attack again for a 
serious amount of money. He says he felt spooked. I can see why, on balance, he would 
have felt that way and how, in all the circumstances of this complaint, it would reasonably 
have impacted his thoughts and actions in the moment. Indeed, the fraud was specifically 
designed to do this. 
Mr H felt that all the evidence from my side was overwhelming to support this situation. The 
recently received text, the previous losses, his knowledge of my account, all the previous 
phone calls all pointed to this. On the balance of evidence, I dont think this was 
unreasonable  so I dont agree, in all the circumstances of this complaint, that Mr Hs failure 
to make the additional checks that HSBC believes he could have done, or actions he could 
have taken, should have led it not to fully reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code. 
So in summary, Im satisfied that Mr H, at the time of making the transfer, had a reasonable 
basis for believing it was genuine. It can be difficult for consumers to think clearly, and take 
steps they might otherwise take, under the kind of worry and emotional pressure Mr H found 
himself under at the hands of the fraudster. Thats not unreasonable and is of course why 
frauds like this can be so successful. The CRM Code acknowledges this in much of its 
design. The additional feature of a previous fraud here only cements my view of Mr Hs 
complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Ive found that Company B ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. And that 
its fair and reasonable that HSBC reimburses it now, in resolution to this complaint. 
I therefore require that HSBC:
pay Company B the remaining 50% of the money lost - £4,950, less any amount from 
this already paid/recovered;
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date HSBC 
declined Company Bs claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement - less 
any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Patrick Hurley
Ombudsman