DRN-3709616
The complaint
Mr L complains about advice he was given in 2018 to transfer the benefits of a defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Grove Pension Solutions Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to it as Grove. 
What happened
At the time, Mr L was a deferred member of an OPS. Hed accrued the benefits from service 
with a previous employer between 1988 and 1998. The cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of Mr Ls OPS was £162,479.
In March 2018, Mr L asked Grove to provide him with pension advice. Information Grove 
gathered about Mr L at that time was recorded in a fact-find dated 13 June 2018 and was 
broadly as follows:
He was currently 55 years old and married to Mrs L who was 29. They had a 5-year-
old child. He and Mrs L both worked and earned around £2,000 and £1,200 per 
month (net) respectively.
They had around £19,000 of debt liabilities, consisting of credit card borrowing and 
an unsecured loan. Payments to these comprised £1,055 per month. Mr and Mrs L 
said they had £900 in savings.
Mr and Mrs L rented their home and owned no property of their own. Mr L told Grove 
that at the time that he wanted to buy a property to get on the ladder. To do this he 
wanted to pay off his debts and get a mortgage. He then also wanted to invest in and 
run his own pub.
The normal retirement age (NRA) of Mr Ls OPS was 65. 
In September 2018, Grove advised Mr L to transfer out of his defined-benefit OPS and use 
the funds to generate a 25% tax-free lump sum of £40,619. He was advised to invest the 
remainder in a fund commensurate with what Grove said was his medium attitude to risk 
(ATR). 
Mr L now says he was given unsuitable advice by Grove. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and said although Grove hadnt done everything right, we shouldnt uphold 
it. The investigator thought Mr L had a real and compelling reason to transfer his pension 
which could not be met any other way. 
Mr L, who is represented in bringing his complaint, hasnt agreed with our investigator. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered these things, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same 
reasons given already by our investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Grove should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in the consumers best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Financial comparisons 
The first issue I considered was whether, from a longer-term financial comparison 
perspective, transferring out of Mr Ls OPS was going to leave him with lower pension 
benefits overall. I think the evidence is clear that it was.
Ive also noted, however, that Grove doesnt really dispute this, and I think it was clear 
enough with Mr L that this would be the case. It told him, in its Pension Report of 6 July 
2018, that transferring out of his OPS to a personal pension was likely to leave him worse off 
in the longer term. 
Grove also referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the 
DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help me consider how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for the 
transfer out to become financially viable.Grove said the critical yield required to match Mr Ls benefits at the age of 65 was 12.53% if 
he took a full pension and 9.65% if he took a tax-free cash element and a reduced pension. 
It also said that to buy a pension with similar benefits on the open market this would have 
cost around £323,788, showing the real overall value of the pension benefits Mr L enjoyed 
within his current scheme.
The advice was also given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
As both the discount rate and the regulators projections were well below the critical yield 
rates, I think these things all showed that Mr L would most likely receive lower retirement 
benefits in the longer-term by transferring out. 
However, in this particular case, there were also other specific considerations which both 
Grove and our investigator thought were relevant. Groves advice to transfer out was not 
based on Mr Ls pension growing more outside the scheme than if he had kept it inside. 
Rather, it was predicated on his individual circumstances which were his desire to reduce his 
debts, buy a property and then move forward with his aspirations to run a pub business.
So, to think about this, Ive examined the overall advice he received.
Mr Ls discussions with Grove
In its Pension report of 6 July 2018, Groves recommendation was for Mr L to transfer out of 
his DB scheme and take an immediate tax-free lump sum of £40,619. The remaining amount 
was recommended to be invested in a fund with a well-known provider.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen in this case that there is clear evidence the 
recommendation was based on discussions the parties had undergone and also on the fact-
find exercise mentioned above. I accept Mr Ls representative doesnt agree with this but 
Grove said this recommendation would enable Mr L to pay a significant proportion of the 
familys debts and also provide a deposit for a mortgage with which to buy a home. I also 
note from Mr Ls own representative that by that point, Mr L had already been looking at 
appropriate mortgages.
 
However, Ive also considered that Groves job in providing regulated advice wasnt to simply 
transact what Mr L thought he wanted. Mr L wasnt experienced in these matters and he paid 
for financial advice, so Grove had a responsibility to really understand Mr Ls circumstances 
and to provide advice that was in his best interests.  
Our investigator noted a number of flaws in Groves advice. He thought Mr Ls ATR was 
categorised at a level which seemed to be somewhat above what it should have actually 
been. He also pointed to failures in comparing the critical yield figures against the correct money market funds which were eventually recommended. This is because the transfer 
analysis report compared the critical yield against one fund, but by the time the eventual 
recommendation was made another fund had been chosen. 
I agree that Grove fell short in these areas. However in my view, these failures, real as they 
were, do not affect the overall outcome of this complaint. Whilst Mr Ls ATR probably ought 
to have been categorised at a slightly lower level, the types of drawdown money market fund 
mentioned in both cases were not substantially removed from what Mr Ls attitude to risk 
actually was. And whilst Groves transfer analysis compared the critical yield against one 
fund but eventually recommended another, I dont think the differences between the two 
funds were wide enough to make a difference in this case.
The crux of the matter in this case is what Grove predicated its advice to transfer out of the 
OPS on. And I think Grove was clear enough that its recommendation was based on Mr Ls 
specific circumstances and what he wanted to achieve. Theres plenty of evidence in the 
Pension Report, for instance, that these things had been discussed and that the adviser was 
attempting to take account of Mr Ls objectives and find a way to achieve them in a way that 
was in his best interests overall. 
Ive seen that the Report clearly noted the apparent weight Mr L placed on achieving his 
objectives to buy a house and that he knew releasing money from his pension at that point 
would reduce his eventual retirement income. The Grove adviser noted that Mr L felt this 
was definitely important  as you said you want to stop renting and buy your own property. 
You said you want to have some stability for your family and also want to allow for future 
savings by reducing your outgoings.
I also noted that in the initial Report sections, Grove pointed out some of the disadvantages 
that achieving Mr Ls objectives in this way could cause. Mr Ls representative said he wasnt 
given any warnings and that his pension benefits he enjoyed at that point just werent 
explained to him. But I dont think this is right as the Report set out that one of the main 
differences with an old company pension and transferring into a personal arrangement is the 
old scheme was promising you a pension in retirement and they would have to provide this, 
whatever the cost - there is no investment risk borne by you whatsoever. By transferring, the 
money remaining invested would have the risk borne by you instead. 
Similar information and warnings of this nature were presented elsewhere in the Report 
which went on to set out how Mr L accepted these risks and why he considered buying a 
house outweighed all other considerations.
So, I think it was Mr L himself that introduced the objective of buying a home. I think that with 
a wife and young child his emphasis on what he himself called family stability was 
understandable and no doubt a very important consideration at that time. I also think the 
financial demands placed upon the family would have added to Mr Ls desire to move home. 
These included paying down debts costing £1,055 per month and the monthly rental for his 
current home.
I also think Grove made it clear to Mr L that there were longer-term disadvantages in 
transferring. It issued warnings in language I think he could have easily understood. All this, 
therefore, means Im satisfied that in this context Grove acted in Mr Ls best interests. Mr L 
went to Grove with what he perceived as an unsatisfactory family situation where they 
owned no home of their own and were using their income to pay rent. This was connected to 
 and exacerbated by - the servicing of debts and Mr L saw an opportunity to use the OPS to 
improve the familys financial circumstances moving forward.
Could Grove had done things differently?I acknowledge that this was a difficult call to make and that different perspectives could be 
placed on what Mr L was advised to do. On one hand Mr Ls debts were being paid down at 
a reasonable rate and were due to be paid off completely in 18 and 24 months respectively. 
Ive therefore considered whether he could have been advised differently  and whether an 
alternative option, rather than the one recommended, could have been in his best interests.
First, I considered whether it might have been better for Mr L to do nothing by remaining 
within the OPS. As I implied above, there were longer-term advantages to this option as 
regards Mr Ls pension. These advantages included retaining the valuable guarantees and 
benefits these types of DB scheme come with. The projections showed, for example, that 
upon reaching NRA, Mr L could have accessed a pension of around £9,926 per year  or 
£6,120 per year with a tax-free lump sum of £40,800. I also think the death benefits 
contained within Mr Ls OPS would have been useful, particularly given Mrs Ls age and of 
course, their dependent child.
However, I think the greater priority Mr L had was around his familys housing situation. 
Whilst Ive seen nothing showing their current renting arrangement was so bad as to mean 
they had no alternative but to move  I do think Mr L was clear from the start that their 
circumstances were best improved by owning a home of their own; he said the move would 
make a big difference to him and his family. With a 5-year old child and monthly demands on 
his and Mrs Ls salaries, I can understand these were real concerns. 
So, I dont think this is an option Mr L would have wanted to realistically consider. In my 
view, it would have been obvious to Mr L that he didnt have to move his deferred pension 
and hed have known this option was available. However, it didnt meet the objectives Mr L 
had set, and it was therefore most likely discounted by him.
Of course, very much linked to this, was the opportunity for Grove to say to Mr L that buying 
a home simply wasnt something he could afford. However, I dont think Mr L would have 
seen his situation in this way. He and Mrs L each earned salaries and theyd have viewed 
the pension freedom rules as an opportunity to make a trade-off between suitable family 
housing  and longer-term retirement security. And I dont think taking that view was 
unreasonable for him.
Next, I looked at the alternative of Mr L remaining with his OPS but drawing the benefits 
early. If Mr L had done this more or less straightaway he would have retained the 
guarantees and benefits Ive referred to above, but he would have been able to draw an 
annual income of around £2,591 and take a tax-free lump sum of £16,416.
However, I dont think Mr L would have wanted to do this either and I dont think it would 
have accomplished what he was trying to achieve. Mr and Mrs L already had incomes and 
so whilst additional income is no doubt always welcome, I think the £2,591 per year was 
removing money from a tax-efficient environment (his pension) into one where it would be 
subject to income tax. And as Mr L had said he intended to work for quite a few more years 
yet, I dont think this taxed income element was needed at that point. The tax-free lump sum 
would have also been of limited use in those circumstances; it would have been insufficient 
to pay down the debt and have a viable housing deposit for a mortgage. So for these 
reasons, I dont think this option was one he should have been recommended to pursue.
Finally, I considered whether Mr L should have been advised to continue to pay off his debts 
in full according to the payment plan he and Mrs L seemed to be adhering to. This evidently 
showed the £19,000 debts would be paid off in full in two years time. At that point, Mr L 
could have either taken early benefits from his OPS or transferred out in around 2020/21, 
rather than in 2018.The potential benefits of this could have been a higher CETV and possibly, by that time, the 
complete eradication of his debts. But there was no guarantee the CETV would be higher as 
valuing this can be complicated and based on wider economic factors  it could have been 
lower.
This option would also have still involved either early access to his pension or a transfer-out, 
both of which Ive pointed out to have certain disadvantages. I also think Mr L would have 
been mindful of the long-term upward trend in house prices which might have put the 
purchase of a home further beyond his and Mrs Ls reach. So, I dont think this option would 
have been viewed as being in his best interests either.
Other issues
After our investigator issued their view, Mr Ls representative submitted further points of 
complaint. 
It said, for instance, that Mr L had savings at the time of around £40,000. This would 
materially affect the way Id look at this complaint as it could be said that he would have had 
little to gain from transferring out of his DB pension. In effect  he would have had the 
necessary cash available there and then to achieve his home-buying objectives, without any 
need to resort to his OPS.
However, Ive seen no evidence of £40,000 in savings being available to Mr L at the time 
and in the circumstances I would certainly expect to see this. The original fact-find recorded 
only £900 in savings and it also said more generally that Mr and Mrs L currently had 
insufficient savings for a housing deposit. Grove was entitled to accept the information 
provided by Mr L.
Ive also considered Mr Ls obvious desire to reduce his £19,000 in debts at the time. If he 
had access to £40,000 then I think he would have been likely to use this to free up monthly 
income and reduce significant interest payments. In any event, Mr Ls representative has 
had plenty of time to clarify this matter and produce confirmation of these savings. That it 
hasnt done so means Im placing little weight on this.
Ive also been told that Mr L apparently tried to cancel the pension transfer shortly after 
requesting it in 2018. The implication here is that he must have become unsure of the advice 
Grove had given him and whether he ought to go ahead after all. 
But Ive also seen no evidence of this cancellation and our investigator has comprehensively 
explained to the parties that Mr L did subsequently contact the fund manager with a view to 
making further withdrawals from the drawdown fund. Our investigator said its possible this 
issue might be being confused with Mr Ls assertion that he tried to stop the transfer as it 
was being carried out. 
But like our investigator, I think there is nothing to support the allegation that Mr L tried to 
stop the transfer of his OPS taking place at the last minute. To be clear then, there is no 
credible evidence in my view to support this allegation and accordingly, I place little weight 
on it. 
Summary
In this decision Ive set out what I think about the recommendation to transfer from Mr Ls 
OPS to a personal pension. In my view, Mr Ls circumstances as of 2018 required careful thought. He went to Grove 
seeking financial advice with his stated primary objective as being buying a home and exiting 
the rental market. The information Ive seen strongly suggests this was discussed at some 
length and that Mr L impressed the importance of this action to his familys well-being 
moving forward.
To achieve this objective I think its fair to say Mr L faced some difficult trade-offs. On one 
hand, the pension represented the majority of his retirement provision; and by transferring 
out and taking a lump-sum hed have only 75% left to invest. That money would then be 
exposed to market conditions and certain pension benefits and guarantees would be lost.  
But I think Mr L nevertheless had a clear idea of what he wanted to achieve over the next 
few years and with a wife and young child, he wanted stability more than anything else.
I accept that Grove didnt do everything right. I think it could have portrayed Mr Ls 
alternative options more clearly and it could have been more diligent around Mr Ls ATR. 
Some of Groves financial comparisons between his OPS and money market funds that were 
available after he transferred could have been set out better.
However, these shortcomings dont change what I think. Overall, I think Grove told Mr L 
about the valuable benefits hed be giving up by transferring out of his OPS. It warned him 
against accessing his pension early and told him it could be viewed as an expensive way to 
achieve what he wanted to do. It pointed out hed be giving up death benefits and it set out 
how, in the longer-term, his pension would not grow outside the scheme to match the 
benefits of staying in. In this respect, Ive found no support for Mr Ls allegations that he 
wasnt told what he might be losing or that he wasnt warned about his retirement savings.
Ive also accepted that Mr Ls situation wasnt so critical as to make transferring out of his 
scheme urgent. However, I have taken into account Mr Ls circumstances; Mr Ls wife was 
younger than him and they had a young child, so I can fully understand their desire to get on 
the housing ladder was of the utmost importance to them. The only realistic way to achieve 
this was to access some funds from Mr Ls OPS to pay down some debts and generate a 
deposit for a mortgage. Once achieved, the mortgage was affordable going forward.
Even if I were to consider that alternative options ought to have been strongly put to Mr L, 
Im afraid I still think the outcome would have been the same. Thats because Mr L sought 
this advice and had a clear idea of what his priorities were. These were to provide his family 
with a new home and I think he would have insisted on transferring his pension to achieve 
this. 
Flawed as it was in some parts, I therefore think the recommendation was in Mr Ls best 
interests. I dont think Groves advice was unsuitable.
Im sorry to disappoint him, but Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
I do not direct Grove Pension Solutions Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman