DRN-2870528
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Vanquis Bank Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided her 
with a credit card in February 2018.
Background
Ms B applied for, and was given, a credit card from Vanquis in February 2018. She has told 
us that at this time she was gambling excessively and had a number of defaulted accounts 
and other forms of credit she was struggling to maintain. She doesnt believe that Vanquis 
did sufficient checks before providing her with the credit card and says that if it had checked 
her payslips and bank statements thoroughly it wouldve seen she was spending beyond her 
means and that she couldnt afford the credit card. She has asked Vanquis to apologise for 
giving her the card, which she says ultimately made her financial situation worse, and to 
refund all the interest and charges she paid on it. 
Vanquis has said that at the time Ms B applied for the card, while she did have some 
accounts that had defaulted a few years previously, there was nothing on her credit file to 
show that she was struggling to maintain her finances by February 2018. It said her declared 
income was £35,000 and her existing unsecured debt at the time of application was £5,600. 
So it approved a credit card with a relatively low limit of £1,000 which it believed was 
affordable at the time. Therefore, it didnt agree it had done anything wrong and didnt uphold 
Ms Bs complaint. 
Ms B disagreed with Vanquis and brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Ms Bs complaint already. They found that Vanquis did run 
sufficient checks at the time of application and that the card looked to be affordable. For that 
reason, they didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint either. 
Ms B remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review her case again and so its 
been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of our investigator and for much the same reasons. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms B so Ive set out my reasons why below. 
Ms B has said that at the time of applying for the card she was gambling very heavily and 
that if Vanquis had looked at her bank statements in detail this wouldve been apparent and 
wouldve stopped it from giving her more credit. The rules and regulations that set out what 
businesses need to do before providing people with credit dont explicitly say that bank 
statements should be checked, although those regulations do say that businesses need to 
run sufficient checks. They types of checks that will be run will often depend on a number of 
factors including the past relationship, if any, between the lender and the customer as well 
as the information provided in the application form and what the customers credit file says. 
At the time of application Ms Bs declared annual income was £35,000 and her credit file 
showed she had £5,600 of existing unsecured debt. Vanquis has said that it did see that she 
had a previously defaulted account on her credit file and that this was taken into 
consideration when the opening limit on the card was set to £1,000. But it believes this was 
a relatively low limit and that it was affordable for Ms B based on the information it saw at the 
time. It has also told us that the limit hasnt been increased since the card was opened and 
that the account has been well maintained; Ms B has only missed two payments since the 
card went live, one in early 2019 and the second in early 2020. At the time of the complaint 
the account was up to date and well maintained. So, it believes the card was affordable for 
Ms B and that it didnt make an error when it provided it to her. 
I can see from the information provided by both Vanquis and Ms B that by March and April 
2018 Ms B had borrowed a significant amount of money and that her outstanding unsecured 
debt increased from £5,600 to over £31,000. In addition to this a new default was registered 
in her name the following year. So, I dont doubt that around the time Ms B applied for this 
card things may have started to spiral for her and that her situation became a lot more 
difficult in the following weeks and months. However from the evidence provided it would 
seem that the bulk of this additional lending happened after she was approved for the credit 
card from Vanquis and so I cant say the business failed to take it into consideration at the 
time because there was no evidence to indicate Ms B was applying for credit elsewhere 
when Vanquis ran its checks. 
I can only consider whether or not Vanquis made the right decision, based on the 
information available to it at the time Ms B applied for the card. And at that time, in early 
2018, there was nothing on her credit file to show that she was borrowing excessively or that 
the card wasnt affordable. And, although Vanquis didnt ask to see her bank statements, as 
I explained above, theres no obligation on lenders to ask to see these. And I wouldnt expect 
a lender to ask for more information unless there was something on a persons credit file or 
application form that could indicate the credit may not be affordable. 
Therefore, while I dont doubt that things became very difficult for Ms B in 2018 after she 
applied for this card, I cant say that Vanquis were wrong to approve it for her. The limit was 
relatively low, and the bank did run sufficient checks, which at that time, didnt show any 
indication that the lending would cause Ms B problems going forward. So I cant say the 
bank acted irresponsibly when it approved the card for Ms B which means I cant uphold her 
complaint against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint against Vanquis Bank 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman