DRN-4298910
The complaint
Mr D complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has failed to refund over £46,000 he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Mr D fell victim to an investment scam with DeFi City (the scammer) beginning in July 2022 
after being introduced to the investment platform by a friend. He opened an account with 
Revolut in August 2022, which he did so for the purposes of gaining exposure to financial 
assets. 
Between August and October 2022, Mr D made numerous payments from his Revolut 
account in excess of £46,000, which was paid to his Binance wallet, where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. He also made several withdrawals during this 
period from his Binance wallet. 
Mr D realised he had been scammed after he was told to pay taxes in order to make a larger 
withdrawal and still didnt receive his money. He reported the scam to Revolut, who declined 
to refund the money he had lost. Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. He felt 
that Revolut ought to have provided a written warning that broadly covered scam risks, but 
he didnt think this would have prevented Mr D from continuing to make further payments. 
Mr D disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr D authorised the disputed payments he made to his Binance 
wallet from his Revolut account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using 
his legitimate security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr D 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
The first several payments Mr D made wouldnt have appeared unusual (particularly 
in light of the reason he gave for opening the account). But I acknowledge that his 
payment activity arguably became unusual or suspicious when he began making 
multiple escalating payments in the same day, such as the three payments made on 
1 September 2022. However, even accepting that Revolut shouldve provided a scam 
warning to Mr D (written or otherwise), Im not persuaded that any such warning or 
intervention would have ultimately prevented him from making any further payments.
Mr D said the investment broker was recommended to him by a trusted friend, so any 
warning he couldve received about being approached out of the blue by an 
unsolicited broker would have likely been ineffective. And given it was recommended 
by a trusted friend, he wouldve had even less cause to doubt its legitimacy if this had 
been called into question by Revolut.
Mr D had also been able to make several withdrawals from the investment platform, 
and said he was able to make around 10-12 withdrawals a month, with some of them 
being relatively large (i.e. £5,000). So again, any scam warning about not being able 
to withdraw his money likely wouldnt have alerted him to any scam risk here either, 
given he had been able to make frequent withdrawals. I also cant see much by way 
of adverse information that Mr D could have found at the time if asked to carry out 
further checks. There were no warnings about the merchant on the FCA watchlist, for 
example.
So, even if Revolut had provided Mr D with a scam warning and advised him to carry 
out further checks, Im not persuaded that this would have led to him realising that he 
was likely being scammed. Therefore, I dont think Revoluts failure to provide a 
warning can be considered the proximate cause of Mr Ds loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the payments to 
his Binance wallet irrespective of any warning or intervention by Revolut. 
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr D reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent using a debit 
card can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these 
circumstances, Mr D used his debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt 
be able to make a successful chargeback claim for his card payments in these 
circumstances because the company he paid had provided the services as intended 
(i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Similarly, for the faster payments Mr D made to 
Binance, there wouldnt be any prospect of Revolut having recovered this money 
either given we know it was all subsequently transferred to the scammer from his 
crypto wallet. So, I dont think Revolut could have done anything more to try and 
recover the funds.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. I dont underestimate the impact this has had on him, or 
how difficult it has been for him to come to terms with. But while I naturally sympathise with 
the position hes in, I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable 
for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman