DRN-2170390
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was declined for a credit card by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclaycard).
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card from Barclaycard in June 2019. His application was declined.
Mr M complained. Barclaycards letter of rejection said his application was declined because 
he was an existing customer; and hed had a card in the past and broken its terms and 
conditions. Both were not the case. He checked his credit file and Cifas data  and neither 
showed anything. Hed submitted a data subject access request to Barclaycard  and this 
also showed nothing. So  he wanted to know why his application had been declined.
Barclaycard said Mr Ms application didnt meet their criteria. They didnt have to say why the 
decision was made. But due to the nature of the closure of his previous Barclaycard account 
in 2017, it was unlikely theyd open an account for him in the future either. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said she agreed that the two 
reasons given by Barclaycard were misleading. But looking at what happened in Mr Ms 
case, it was up to Barclaycard to make its own decisions on lending money  this is up to its 
own commercial judgement. And - because these decisions are commercially sensitive, they 
dont have to disclose why they wont offer someone an account.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman looks at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr M is coming from  he has shown us his credit file, which looks ok. And 
his Cifas (fraud) data is also OK. So, he doesnt understand why he was declined a 
Barclaycard.
Ive looked at what happened  and what our investigator said is correct  Barclaycard, like 
all lenders, make their own decisions about who to lend money to and who to do business 
with. And the criteria they use are their own  and are commercially sensitive. So, they arent 
necessarily going to tell customers, or us  why theyve approved, or declined an application. 
Nor do they have to. But I can see that the reasons for why Mr M was declined for a credit 
card dates back to the nature of what happened when he applied for a card in 2017. As 
Barclaycards final response in July 2019 said, Mr Ms previous account was opened and 
closed within 24 hours after a review of the information he gave to them then.
Mr M has commented on the data subject access request that he lodged with Barclaycard. 
They told us that the information they hold on Mr M is accurate  and would therefore be 
reflected in the report he received.
I can appreciate that Mr M will find this frustrating  but in this case, I cant say that 
Barclaycard did anything wrong  and I wont be asking them to do anything more here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman