DRN-2829042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as TSB) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1994 Mr and Mrs C bought a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments. The sale 
most likely took place in a branch at the same time as they applied for their mortgage. The 
policy was in Mr Cs sole name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the evidence is limited and incomplete, so my decision is based on the balance
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do
have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. As an independent and
impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit
for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were told they had to have PPI to get the mortgage. Lloyds says its 
more likely than not the optional nature of the policy was verbally explained before the sale 
concluded.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds isnt able to provide documents to
show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs C. But the sale was over 25 years ago so
this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs C 
have said and I dont doubt these are their honest recollections. But I also have to take into
account what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time, as well how long ago the sale 
was and how that might affect what they recall. Without stronger evidence to show Lloyds 
didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs C didnt agree to take it out, I cant 
fairly uphold the complaint on this point. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr C to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check if the PPI was 
right for him. I think it seems to have been suitable based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr C told us he was entitled to six months full pay, three months 75% pay and six months 
half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and 
for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. He was entitled to nine 
months redundancy pay but this policy gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover  in 
addition to any payment from his employer. It would have allowed him to protect the lump 
sum redundancy payment giving increased financial security at an already difficult time. 
Mr C told us they had savings of around £30,000, but explained they took out a 
mortgage for the same amount as they wanted to keep the savings. Mr and Mrs C havent 
been able to evidence these savings, but theyve said around two-thirds of these were from 
an inheritance Mrs C received. Mr C also said they didnt just buy the house outright as it 
was their first time co-habiting. In these circumstances I think the PPI would still have been 
useful. It would have allowed them to protect their savings  as was their rationale for taking 
out the mortgage in the first place. Or they could have used them to cover other living costs 
whilst Mr C wasnt working. On balance, I dont think the available evidence shows their 
savings meant the PPI wasnt still useful for them. In addition, I dont have certainty about 
the value of their savings at this time. 
Mr C had a death-in-service benefit as well as life and critical illness cover but these policies 
wouldnt help with monthly mortgage payments in the same circumstances as PPI.
Mr and Mrs C were borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured on their
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments I think the cover 
wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs C if Mr C was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced 
for the benefit it offered and it seems it was affordable. I dont know that Lloyds pointed out
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by
any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical
conditions). So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman