DRN-2957147
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Ms H is Es director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
E opened a bank account with Barclays in January 2021 and applied to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan shortly after.
Barclays declined Es application on the basis that it didnt meet the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme eligibility criteria. These criteria required the applicant to have been carrying on 
business before 1 March 2020  and the bank didnt think E had been.
Ms H complained, but Barclays maintained its decision to decline Es application. However, 
the bank recognised that it had caused some inconvenience along the way when incorrectly 
advising Ms H that the application had been declined due to information held at fraud 
prevention agencies. It apologised for this and offered to pay £100 by way of compensation.
Ms H remained unhappy and referred her concerns to us. One of our investigators reviewed 
Es complaint but didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more. In summary, she said 
that the banks decision to decline Es application was reasonable  as information held with 
Companies House showed that the company hadnt been trading at the requisite time. And 
while recognising that the incorrect information about fraud prevention agencies wouldve 
been a shock for Ms H, she explained that under our rules we could only compensate E for 
the impact of this error  and in that regard, she thought £100 was fair for any inconvenience 
the company had been caused. 
Ms H didnt accept our investigators view. She said that E had been trading at the requisite 
time and that shed provided evidence to demonstrate this. And she didnt think £100 was 
fair compensation for the impact that the banks incorrect information had on her mental 
health. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was open to most businesses, there were certain 
eligibility criteria that all applicants had to meet. This included the requirement that the 
applicant was carrying on business on 1 March 2020.
Companies House records show that E was dissolved in July 2019 and was only restored in 
November 2020. So it was dissolved on 1 March 2020. This means the company didnt exist 
as a legal entity at that time and therefore cant have been carrying out any activity  
including carrying on business. 
Ms H doesnt think that the Companies House information is correct and queries what it 
purports to reflect. Companies House is the government body that incorporates  and 
dissolves  limited companies in this country and is the register for company information. So, 
in short, it is the definitive record as to a companys existence. The Companies House 
records show that E was dissolved on 1 March 2020 and Barclays was entitled to rely on 
this. If it wasnt correct, then it was up to E to remedy this with Companies House. 
Based on the above, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to decline Es application on the 
basis that the company wasnt trading on 1 March 2020 and therefore didnt meet the 
Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria.
I appreciate that Es loan application process took longer than Ms H might reasonably have 
expected at the outset. But bearing in mind both the complexities of Es application and the 
unprecedented circumstances under which Barclays was operating during this time, I dont 
think the time taken was unreasonable. 
As Barclays has accepted, it made an error in telling Ms H that its decision was based on 
information held with fraud prevention agencies. Thankfully this was rectified swiftly  Ms H 
was sent the incorrect email on 1 April but the bank wrote to her on 9 April to confirm (and 
apologise for) its error. I dont doubt that this will have caused Ms H some understandable 
concern until matters were clarified, and Im sorry to read of the impact it had on her. But as 
the complaint is brought by E, I cant award compensation to Ms H in her personal capacity 
(and the company itself cant suffer emotional distress). 
Rather, it is a matter of compensating E for any inconvenience it was caused. In this respect, 
I can see that Ms H followed up with a fraud prevention agency to check on her record, 
which ought not to have been necessary. And so this took her away from other company 
business during this time. Its right that E is compensated for this inconvenience. Barclays 
has already offered to pay £100 for this, which I think is fair in the circumstances and in line 
with what I would otherwise have awarded.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay E £100 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay E £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman