DRN-2676867
The complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Life Limited has failed to conduct proper reviews of his unit-
linked reviewable whole of life policy. Because of this, Mr T says he has been deprived of 
the opportunity to maintain his policys value by increasing his premiums.   
What happened
Mr T has held his Permanent Protection Plan with ReAssure (previously branded Skandia 
and Old Mutual) since September 1979, when it was taken out through an independent 
financial adviser. It had an original sum assured of £27,000 which was reviewable after the 
first ten years. The premium for the policy is paid annually, with an option each year to apply 
an increase to the premium in line with inflation.  
In July 2020, ReAssure wrote to Mr T ahead of the policys September 2020 review to 
explain that he would either need to increase the premium to maintain the cover in force or 
maintain the current premium and accept a reduction in the policys sum assured from 
£190,800 to £150,211. 
When undertaking the review, it realised that under the terms and conditions of the policy, it 
should have sent Mr T an earlier review when the premiums being paid were no longer 
sufficient to maintain the sum assured for a further 12 months. Mr Ts policy reached this 
point in 2009 and it should have written to him at that time but due to a system error, it failed 
to notify him. 
It therefore offered compensation to Mr T on the basis that he had increased his policy 
premiums every year from 2009, assuming an annual growth rate of 8%. Alternatively, it said 
Mr T had the option to cancel the policy back to 2009 and receive payment equal to the 
surrender value at the time, a return of premiums paid since and interest applied at a rate of 
8% simple. 
Mr T complained. He said the failure to hold earlier reviews or provide any information about 
the value of the policy has caused it to dwindle to zero, and now he has no opportunity to 
remedy the situation.
ReAssure rejected the complaint. It explained that its responsibilities in respect of the policy 
were administrative. It maintained the policy as an investment vehicle with access to a range 
of funds, but if Mr T had wished to review the funds more closely he would need to do so 
through independent financial advice.  
It noted it had correctly calculated compensation as beginning from 2009. ReAssure said it 
was confident the policy had been managed correctly prior to the missed review in 2009. 
From that time it has rectified the system error by putting the policy into the best financial 
position it would have been in, had the review taken place at that time.
Mr T brought the complaint to this service in September 2020. He said his expectation was 
that the investment had a value that was on track with the policys sum assured of £190,800. 
If ReAssure had told him of the actual value, he would have had an opportunity to pay 
greater premiums. 
He explained that he had been sold the policy on the basis that it worked similarly to an 
endowment savings policy, and that it would be designed in the future to pay off the capital 
sum of an interest only mortgage. To this end, he explained that the Skandia Plan Guide 
issued to him at the time of the sale said that when the value of your investment exceeds 
the level of Life Assurance chosen, no deductions are made and the greater amount will be 
payable on death. This therefore implied that the value would exceed the sum assured.  
He considered that ReAssures offer to restore the fund to the 2009 position was welcomed, 
but also woefully inadequate. This was because he had paid some £500 per annum in 
premiums for over 40 years in the firm belief that he was building up a significant lump sum 
for his family when he dies.  
Mr T explained that if the policy had been properly reviewed in 1989 and thereafter in 1999 it 
would have been clear that it was not on track to equal the sum assured and he could have 
taken steps to increase his contributions. He therefore seeks adequate compensation for the 
missed opportunities to increase payments into the policy in the period 10 to 30 years ago. 
These missed opportunities were caused by ReAssure not supplying the information about 
the policys value, which Mr T says it admits it should have been providing.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She 
said ReAssure had identified that it hadnt notified Mr T of policy reviews since 2009, but in 
providing its redress to Mr T it had accounted for the lost opportunity to increase his policy 
premiums.  
Further, though Mr T had said that reviews hadnt ever been undertaken, ReAssure had 
provided evidence that the reviews had taken place, and it had sent this service a copy of 
completed review forms from 1998 until 2008.  
Finally, she noted that Mr T had expected that his investment value would have grown to 
equal the level of the policys sum assured, but ReAssure was not responsible for the sale of 
the policy. And she felt that the documentation set out clearly how the policy operated.  
Mr T disagreed. He said he hadnt complained specifically about ReAssures response to 
missing reviews from 2009 onwards. He also confirmed he accepted the proposed 
compensation for that based on the offer of adding funds to the policy. 
His complaint was that no earlier reviews were held. Mr T said that our investigator was 
conflating policy reviews (for sustaining the policy premium going forward for the next five 
years) with the annual premium payment review whereby he was given the option of 
increasing the annual sum assured to account for inflation, following which he returned his 
annual premium cheques.  
In his opinion, Mr T believed that ReAssure had never conducted any policy reviews  and it 
is the absence of this type of review which has led to the situation he is in now. Whilst he 
does not blame ReAssure for any low economic periods, he wasnt made aware of the 
policys value at any time and in the absence of any figures or statements he has been 
deprived of the chance to remedy the matter.  
Mr T also sent two detailed letters with additional comments. I have not repeated these in full 
here, but I have read them alongside his other email submissions. In summary, he said:
the value of the investment was key to how the policy was working;the key features information led him to believe that the policy value would eventually 
exceed the sum assured;
as the policys value dwindled to zero it became no more useful than any other term 
assurance policy;
it is not fair for ReAssure to fail to evidence that it has conducted annual reviews 
(aside from offering him the annual increase to his premium or sum assured);
he accepts he lost track of the reviews as well, but ReAssure was in an informed 
position;
he genuinely was unaware that the policy value was nowhere near that of the sum 
assured  and interest rates had remained above 10% and 5% respectively during 
the 1980s and 1990s;
if he had known that the policys value was not on track to match his sum assured, 
hed have made greater payments without increasing the sum assured;
even if this was wildly optimistic, the policy would have a far greater value than the 
£14,554 that ReAssure has credited for its error;
ReAssures redress calculation doesnt assume that he made additional 
contributions;
had the reviews been held and sent to him, he would have noticed that the policy 
value was not on track to match the sum assured and in those circumstances, he 
would have doubled or even trebled his annual contributions;
he therefore believes the calculation ReAssure has undertaken should be dated back 
to 1989, not 2009.  
ReAssure clarified that valuation statements were available on request and not routinely 
issued in earlier years. Nonetheless, it maintained that it hadnt done anything wrong aside 
from the mistake it had since corrected. 
It said it was contractually obliged to review the policy when the premium and value was no 
longer enough to pay for the cover going forwards. The first point this happened was in 
2009; the review packs that were issued between 1979 and 2009 were merely optional 
invitations to review the level of life cover, bearing in mind that the primary purpose of the 
product was to provide life cover rather than being an investment vehicle.
Mr T said this proved his argument that he was unable to take remedial action to make 
additional payments into the policy because he did not realise what the policy value was. He 
said that he admitted, with hindsight, that he should have been more forceful in demanding 
to see the values. However, he did not see how ReAssure can be considered blameless. It 
had an obligation to inform him of the value of the underlying investment fund and it failed to 
tell him any such value until it had reached zero in 2020.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I do not believe this complaint 
should succeed. Though Im sorry to disappoint Mr t, Ill set out a summary of my reasons 
below. 
I realise Mr R believes that his policy worked similarly to an endowment savings policy. 
However, this is not the case  it is a whole of life policy designed to pay a lump sum on the 
death of the life assured. ReAssure did not sell this policy to Mr T, and therefore I cannot 
look more widely at what Mr T was told in 1979. Any complaint about the suitability of the policy for Mr T rests against the advising business, not ReAssure.  
What I can consider is the administration of this policy in the context of Mr Ts concerns 
about reviews during the life of the policy.  
Neither party disputes that the policy first failed a review in 2009  meaning that the 
premiums payable at that time were insufficient to sustain the policys sum assured for the 
next five year period. However, ReAssure did not notify Mr T about this until his policy value 
reached zero in 2020. 
In looking at the redress offer ReAssure has made for this mistake, I believe it has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. Our approach with cases where a business may 
have missed policy reviews is to ask a business what the results of the review would have 
been, if it had been carried out correctly. Where a failed review would have required the 
consumer to increase the premiums or reduce the sum assured, we will consider what the 
consumer would have been likely to do, on the balance of probabilities. I understand Mr T 
says if he had been told in 2009 of the need to increase the premium, he would have done 
so. 
I accept Mr T says he would have wished to take some sort of remedial action in order to 
avoid the reduction in the sum assured, which had built up to £190,800 by that time. 
ReAssures calculation adopts that approach, but goes further and assumed Mr T would 
have increased his policy premium year on year from 2009 to 2020. 
ReAssure has also correctly given Mr T the option to surrender his policy, but noting that the 
current surrender value is higher than the 2009 surrender value (plus premiums plus 
interest). Therefore, Mr T would be no worse off by simply surrendering the policy now. 
Whilst I note he does not wish to do this, ReAssure is correct in saying that Mr T has not lost 
out financially, and in fact he has benefitted from ReAssure assuming hed have increased 
the premium at the time and each year thereafter. It then rolled forward the policy with this 
higher premium to see what the value would have been had the fund grown at an assumed 
rate of 8% per annum. 
Where Mr T remains unhappy is that he feels that policy reviews have never been conducted 
until 2009, because there is no evidence of him being sent a written confirmation of such 
reviews. I do understand Mr Ts frustration regarding the annual correspondence he received 
from 1980 to 2012 which offered him the chance to uplift the premium in line with inflation, 
which is indeed a separate provision of this type of policy. The reviews required to assess 
future premium payments are indeed different. 
These types of policies require reviews to assess whether the sum assured can be 
maintained long term. If growth rates being used are lower than those originally assumed 
some years prior, then this can affect whether the business believes the policys sum 
assured will be sustainable. When these reviews are undertaken, a business will look at the 
investment value, performance, mortality rates and use projections for future investment 
performance. 
ReAssure is permitted in the policy terms and conditions to conduct these reviews. However, 
those terms do not compel it to write to Mr T with the fund value or to write to him annually in 
the event that the policy premiums do not need amending. 
To explain about policies of this nature, maximum cover whole of life policies provide the 
highest level of life cover for the chosen premium, this usually means that most of the 
premium will go towards paying for the life cover. Only a relatively small portion of the premium will be left over to be invested. On this basis, these types of whole of life policies 
are more likely to fail a policy review than a standard cover policy.
That ReAssure did not write out to Mr T annually to confirm the fund value has not, in my 
view, deprived him of the ability to avoid a failed review or to build up an investment fund 
akin to the policys sum assured. That is because the purpose of this policy is to provide life 
cover. The investment element of the policy could not feasibly have reached the level of Mr 
Ts sum assured at any point, even if the policy premiums had been considerably increased. 
I realise Mr T has quoted part of the product literature which explains what happens to the 
fund value in the event that it exceeds the sum assured. But this is a general policy guide (as 
some policies have far lower sums assured from the outset) and it hasnt applied to Mr Ts 
circumstances. 
ReAssure did not provide advice in 1979 to Mr T, so it isnt responsible for what he may 
have understood about how the fund value operated to build up sufficient value to provide for 
the ongoing cost of life cover aside from providing the policy terms and guide. In any event, I 
dont interpret the wording as Mr T does; I dont consider it infers that the fund value in all 
cases would build to the levels of the sum assured. That is not how his policy ordinarily 
operates.  
I note that on some occasions in the correspondence sent to Mr T during the years, the fund 
value was set out  for example, in the 1993 review letter offering the option to increase the 
annual premium from £605 to £665, the total capital fund was £1,163.58 and the total 
accumulator fund value was £2,452.75. The policy had a guaranteed sum assured of 
£172,800 at that time. 
I realise Mr T feels that he would have done something differently had he known of the fund 
value, such as the one set out above. He says if he had known the outcome of reviews in 
1989 or 1999 that this would have led him to make further contributions. But I cannot 
assume that. And I cannot also hold ReAssure liable for that now. That is because the policy 
hadnt failed any review until 2009 and even where it may now be considered good practice 
to write out on this basis, it was not obliged to provide a breakdown of the fund value to Mr T 
nor was it in a position to advise him about whether to make additional annual contributions. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I cannot uphold his complaint. ReAssure has provided fair 
redress for its mistake in respect of reviews, and I dont otherwise find it to have acted 
unreasonably in relation to administering the policy. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
17 June 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman