DRN-2071344
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) unfairly declined a 
claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs E lives abroad but owns a property in the UK. She encountered problems with the 
property and sought cover under her legal expenses policy. But her claim was declined. This 
is because F&L say the policy only covers disputes relating to the policyholders main home. 
And as this property is Mrs Es second home, cover doesnt extend to claims relating to it.
Mrs E doesnt think this is fair. She says the policys territorial limit is restricted to the UK, 
Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. So the policy would never cover her main home. As 
such, she believes the policy should treat her UK property as her main home so that she has 
benefit of the policy. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Es complaint but didnt uphold it. She said the policy is 
clear about what it does and doesnt cover. And she didnt think F&L should be liable for a 
claim that it never intended to cover. 
As Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has a household legal expenses policy. The policy covers both contract and property 
disputes relating to the main home and excludes any claim relating to any land or buildings 
other than {your] main home. 
Under the what is not insured section, the policy goes on to say that it will not cover any 
claim where the insured person permanently lives outside the UK, the Channel Islands or 
the Isle of Man.  
So I think the policys intention is clear that it doesnt extend to occasional or holiday homes. 
The policy is designed as a household policy for the main residence of someone who lives in 
the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man. So to be covered, Mrs E would have to live in the 
property as her main home. She has confirmed that she lives abroad and this is not her main 
property. So the claim isnt covered. There are policies on the market for occasional or 
holiday homes and these are designed to reflect the increased risk of being left unoccupied 
for periods of time. 
I appreciate Mrs Es comments that the policy would never have covered her main home 
because its outside the territorial limits. But this doesnt mean F&L have to accept her 
second home by default. This is because it didnt accept the risk of a second home where 
the policyholder lives abroad  this is purposely excluded as a risk it isnt prepared to cover. 
If Mrs E feels this policy was unsuitable for her situation, she could raise a complaint with the 
business that sold it to her. L&G wasnt responsible for the sale. Its responsible for dealing 
with the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and, for the reasons given, I think it has 
done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman