DRN-1433407
 
The complaint
Mrs R says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term high-cost loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs R 
between April 2016 and April 2017. They varied in term from three to six months. This is a 
summary of Mrs Rs lending history from Mr Lender. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 11/04/2016 30/06/2016 £180
2 04/07/2016 30/12/2016 £350
3 30/12/2016 28/04/2017 £500
4 28/04/2017 26/02/2018 £750
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Rs complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to 
establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
There was nothing to indicate Mr Lender needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. I 
think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mrs 
R. 
But by the time Mrs R came to apply for loan 4, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised it 
was likely Mrs R was having difficulties repaying her loans. Each time Mrs R repaid a loan to 
Mr Lender she then borrowed again either on the same day, or within a few days. And each 
time she borrowed more. By loan 4 the amount she was borrowing had increased to £750  
up from £180 for her first loan. This frequency of borrowing and increase in loan value 
suggests to me it was unlikely Mrs R was making her repayments in a sustainable way. 
After each final repayment she borrowed again immediately, most likely to make up for the 
hole in her finances that repaying the previous loan had caused, and so her indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
And as I've said the regulations required Mr Lender to check that Mrs R could afford to make 
her repayments in a sustainable manner. Successfully meeting her repayments  as Mr 
Lender points out she did for loans 1 to 3 - doesnt automatically mean that she managed to 
do so without difficulty, in other words without borrowing from elsewhere or going without. 
Repaying one loan and taking out another immediately might not amount to an indication of 
unsustainability but I think when it happens a number of times, it should be a cause for 
concern. Mrs Rs fourth loan was for an amount of more than four times her first loan, and 
she would need to meet repayments, potentially, for six months. So I think it was more likely 
than not that Mrs R would struggle to meet her repayments for this fourth loan in a 
sustainable manner. And I think Mr Lender, as a responsible lender, ought to have realised 
this.
I know Mr Lender disagrees, and argues that Mrs R had showed no sign of any financial 
struggle or potential struggle when it decided to issue loan 4. It says she had repaid loans 1 to 3 in full and on time. But for the reasons I explained in the previous paragraph, I disagree 
that it was right to infer from this that she wasn't struggling financially. 
It also says her income and disposable income had increased between loans 2 and 3, and 
whilst loan 4 was for a higher value it was repayable over a longer period making the 
repayments more sustainable. Whilst loan 4 may have seemed affordable on a strict pounds 
and pence basis, Mr Lender was required to check more than this, as I've said. It needed to 
make sure she would be able to repay it on a sustainable basis  so without, amongst other 
things, borrowing more to repay. And based on Mrs Rs pattern of borrowing which had 
emerged by this stage, I dont think it can fairly argue it was able to reach that conclusion. It 
follows I think it was wrong to give loan 4 to Mrs R.  
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4, and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs R paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mrs Rs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Rs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mrs R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman