DRN-2451818
The complaint
Mrs P had a comprehensive motor insurance policy provided by Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited (Watford Insurance). She is unhappy they settled her claim 
proportionately. Also, Mrs P is unhappy with how Watford Insurance dealt with her request to 
be reimbursed for replacement items.
What happened
Mrs Ps car was stolen in June 2019 and she reported this to Watford Insurance. Shortly 
after, they found that the named driver (Mrs Ps husband) had a non-fault claim within the 
previous five years which hadnt been disclosed when the policy was taken out. 
Mrs P explained why the claim hadnt been disclosed. She says she relied on information 
she had been given by her husband. She also expressed concern that Watford Insurance 
had said she disclosed this during the call. Therefore, she sent requests for a copy of the call 
recording and an explanation. 
Watford Insurance decided to settle the claim proportionately because they said they would 
have charged a higher premium had the non-fault claim been disclosed. Mrs P was unhappy 
about this and raised a complaint in June 2019. 
At this point, Mrs P and Watford Insurance also discussed the settlement. In July 2019, 
Watford Insurance told Mrs P they wouldnt reimburse her for the full cost of the replacement 
car seats or pushchairs. They said this was because the car seats were not like the originals 
and she couldnt provide proof of purchase for the pushchairs. 
Mrs P felt this decision was unfair. Watford Insurance reconsidered and agreed to cover the 
full cost of the replacement car seats. But they didnt change their decision about the 
pushchairs. 
Watford Insurance issued their final response on 20 August 2019. They didnt uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint and also confirmed that the non-fault claim had been identified during their 
own checks. Mrs P remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. 
Mrs P is also unhappy with the letters she received from Watford Insurance about the 
cancellation of the policy. This is being considered separately by our service because it 
wasnt part of the original complaint raised with them. 
In the investigators view, Watford Insurance had acted fairly by settling the claim 
proportionately as he found there had been a qualifying misrepresentation which had been 
careless. Also, that Watford Insurance had fairly decided not to reimburse the pushchairs. As 
Watford Insurance had already reimbursed Mrs P for the cost of the car seats, the 
investigator didnt ask them to do anything more as he felt this was reasonable. 
Watford Insurance accepted this, but Mrs P didnt. Therefore, the case has passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Disclosure
Watford Insurance wrote to Mrs P in June 2019. They said that when she reported the 
incident, she informed them of the named drivers non-fault claim. She wrote to them on 14 
June, 26 July, 8 August and 15 August and requested the call recording and an explanation. 
In the correspondence she also raised other concerns she had with the claim. 
Mrs P was informed on 2 August and 13 August 2019 that the decision to deal with the claim 
proportionately would be responded to separately. However, I appreciate Mrs P was eager 
for an explanation. On 20 August, Watford Insurance wrote to Mrs P and explained that the 
information about the non-fault claim came to light during their standard validation checks. 
Watford Insurance couldve been clearer and responded to Mrs P sooner. I can understand 
her frustration at being given the wrong information regarding the source of the non-
disclosed claim. However, Im not persuaded there has been an impact here. Whilst I 
understand Mrs Ps concerns, the evidence doesnt persuade me that Watford Insurance 
deliberately tried to discredit her. Having reviewed the file, Im satisfied it wasnt a factor 
when Watford Insurance were deciding how to handle the claim or that how this information 
was received made any difference to the decision to make a proportionate settlement. 
Settlement
I must decide if Watford Insurances decision to deal with the claim proportionately was fair. 
To do this I need to consider the relevant law in this case which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If the consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Watford Insurance says Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she didnt disclose that the named driver had a non-fault claim 
within the previous five years. 
Both parties agree that the non-fault claim wasnt disclosed. But Ive thought carefully about 
the reasons for this. I note Mrs P wrote to Watford Insurance in June 2019 and explained 
she had no memory of the claim and that her husband thought the claim had occurred in 
2013. She also says that she wasnt involved in his claim. She felt she had given information 
to the best of her knowledge and had taken reasonable care by asking him. 
I have reviewed the claim data on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). It reports 
that the named driver did have a non-fault claim following an incident in October 2014. It was 
settled in January 2015 for a fairly significant amount. The policy was initially taken out in 2017 through a price comparison website. Three years 
had passed since the incident leading to the claim. The question specifically asked whether 
the named driver had any claims in the past five years, no matter who was at fault. 
 
Ive also considered the renewal documents sent in May 2019 for the relevant policy year. 
This included a proposal form which was pre-filled with the information Watford Insurance 
held. It stated that the named driver had no claims, irrespective of blame, in the last five 
years. Mrs P was asked to take reasonable care to answer all the questions honestly, 
accurately and to the best of her knowledge. Having reviewed this, Im satisfied the question 
was clear and specific and Mrs Ps obligations were outlined. Also, Watford Insurance further 
highlighted the importance of providing accurate information by explaining what impact not 
doing so could have on the policy.
Whether Mrs P took reasonable care is set against an objective standard of a reasonable 
consumer. Having considered the circumstances and the relevant test, Im not convinced 
Watford Insurance have unfairly or unreasonably decided that Mrs P failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering the question regarding 
previous claims.  
Watford Insurance have provided their underwriting criteria which shows they would have 
charged Mrs P a higher premium. I understand Mrs P is unhappy and says she has run 
several quotes with and without disclosing the non-fault claim. She says it doesnt affect the 
price. She also explained the named driver notified his own insurer about the claim and 
received a reduction. However, each insurer will decide what factors to consider and how 
much weight to put on each of them. Also, insurers constantly update how they rate the risk 
of consumers and their rates continually change so the relevant price is that which would 
have been quoted at the time.
Watford Insurance has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to 
explain how they determined that they would have charged a higher premium. This hasnt 
been shared with Mrs P because of the sensitive nature of the information. However, I would 
like to assure her that Ive checked it carefully. Im satisfied the price was calculated correctly 
and all of Watford Insurance customers in Mrs Ps position wouldve been charged a similar 
premium. 
Having reviewed the information, I can see Mrs P only paid 94% of what she wouldve been 
asked to pay. However, Watford Insurance agreed to deal with the claim on 96% 
proportionality. Im satisfied this is fair given their calculations.
 
I appreciate Mrs Ps strongly believes it was an innocent mistake. But for the reasons given 
above Im satisfied that there was a misrepresentation and Watford Insurance were entitled 
to treat it as careless. As Watford Insurance have shown they would still have provided the 
policy but at a higher premium the statutory remedy is for the claim to be settled 
proportionately. So, I cant say that they have treated Mrs P unfairly in settling her claim in 
this way.
Reimbursements 
In July 2019, Watford Insurance wrote to Mrs P and explained they would only cover the 
value of the replacement car seats up to the price of the originals. In their view the replacement car seats she had purchased for £420 were different and wouldnt be included 
in the claim.
 
Mrs P has explained the original car seats were bought in a closing down sale and were no 
longer easily obtainable. She says she needed car seats so bought ones which were similar. 
This explanation seems to be in line with the terms of the policy which says Watford 
Insurance would pay for the cost of a replacement car seat if it was of a similar model and 
standard. 
In August 2019, Watford Insurance emailed Mrs P and explained they would fully reimburse 
her for the replacement car seats as a gesture of goodwill. They said that the overall cost of 
the replacement car seats was close enough to the full price of the originals purchased. 
Their notes also suggest this was fair because the policy wording states that theyll 
reimburse for a similar make and specification.
Therefore, although Mrs P was initially told she wouldnt be fully reimbursed, Watford 
Insurance addressed this shortly afterwards and agreed to cover the full cost. The settlement 
has now been paid to Mrs P. Im satisfied that Mrs P was covered under her policy for the 
car seats and Im pleased to see Watford Insurance has now paid out. 
Watford Insurance also wrote to Mrs P about the pushchairs in July 2019. They said they 
wouldnt be included in the claim because she couldnt provide proof of purchase. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and can see it states that Watford Insurance would cover 
personal belongings if they are in the car when its stolen. They also went on to say that they 
may, at their discretion, require documentary evidence to substantiate the claim. 
Having reviewed this, Im satisfied Watford Insurances request for proof of purchase is in 
line with the terms of the policy which states they may require documentary evidence. I 
appreciate Mrs P is concerned about how their discretion was applied in her case. But Im 
not convinced it was unfair for Watford Insurance to ask for evidence. 
Also, proof of purchase isnt unusual evidence and wouldve shown that Mrs P owned the 
pushchairs. Weve asked Mrs P for more information and photographs of the pushchairs. Ive 
considered the information received carefully, but it doesnt lead me to conclude that Watford 
Insurances decision not to cover the cost of replacement pushchairs was unfair. 
Putting things right 
Mrs P was initially told she wouldnt be fully reimbursed for the replacement car seats. But 
shortly after she raised her concerns, Watford Insurance agreed to cover the full cost. 
Therefore, the £420 was included in the settlement which has now been paid to Mrs P. I 
consider Watford Insurances decision to settle the claim proportionately was fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking Watford Insurance to do anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I wont be asking Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman