DRN-3396168
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr B complains that rebuildingsociety.com Ltd (ReBS) has unfairly
charged fees to a crowdfunding account Mr B held and made investments following his 
death that they did not have the authority to make. It also raises concerns about the 
administration of the account since Mr Bs passing.
What happened
Over a number of years Mr B invested through ReBSs peer to peer lending platform in
crowdfunding opportunities.
In July 2017, ReBS introduced a new large lender fee. This fee was to be charged to lenders
on the platform who met a criterion that defined them as a large lender. Mr B met this
definition. The charge amounted to 1% per month or put differently 12% per year on all
invested loans. The fee was first charged to Mr Bs account in July 2017.
In August 2017, sadly Mr B passed away. In December 2018, a personal representative
(PR) for Mr Bs estate was appointed. In November 2019, ReBS were formally informed of
Mr Bs passing by a solicitor and the appointment of a PR. Shortly after this the PR made a
complaint to ReBS.
In summary the complaint covered concerns relating to:
The unfairness of the large lender fee and lack of acceptance of the fee by Mr B.
Unhappiness with the default charges being introduced to loans in Mr Bs account.
Unagreed discretionary management of Mr Bs account leading to investment into
new loans on the account after his death.
A failure to provide information on existing loans as required by the estate.
ReBS responded to the complaint  in summary it said:
Mr B was consulted in the 'product' design phase of the introduction of the large
lender fee. He was also aware of when the fee came into force, prior to his death.
The decision to introduce the fee was done in anticipation of onboarding several
large lending accounts both from individual lenders as well as institutional investors.
As a regulated firm, the fair treatment of lenders is a top priority, the firm fully
considered the principles of treating customers fairly in the introduction of the product
and has received independent advice regarding this fee.
It didnt intentionally delay any part of the wind down of the account. Any delays in
providing access to the account were done in line with internal due diligence and
know your client processes.
When making investments on behalf of Mr Bs account it ensured that they were
spread across a wide variety of loans and that the account participated in loans to a
similar level as had been done by Mr B, during his active management of the
account.
As no agreement could be reached between the parties, the PR of Mr Bs estate referred the
complaint to our service for independent review.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022  upholding the complaint. This is what I 
said:
The complaint brought by Mr Bs estate is multifaceted and many different issues have been
raised through the complaints process. But having reviewed all of the submissions, Im
satisfied the crux of the issues relate to two main issues - the introduction of the large lender
fee and the management of the investment after Mr B passed away. So, I will concentrate
the focus of my findings on these two issues.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered the wider regulatory principles that are relevant to
the situation. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) set
out the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
ReBS is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
-COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Large lender fee
Mr B had been an active member on ReBS platform for a number of years and made
significant investments. In June 2017, ReBS first sought to introduce a new fee that would
be effective from July 2017. This fee essentially meant customers who invested the most (as
per a set definition) on the platform would pay an additional fee  called a large lender fee
(LLF).
ReBS say Mr B was consulted and aware of the fee before he passed away. From the
evidence Ive seen, I accept that Mr B was aware of the fee. The email correspondence
between Mr B and ReBS in June 2017 indicates the intention to introduce a new fee and the
date it would be applicable from was set out. It isnt obviously clear to me from the emails
provided that Mr B gave explicit agreement to the fee but equally I havent seen anything to
suggest that he objected to the fee.
I have some concerns about how the fee was introduced. But at this stage Im not going to
comment further as making a finding on whether the introduction of the LLF was fair or not
as it wont have a significant impact on the overall outcome I currently intend to reach. The
fee was in place for less than two months before Mr B passed away. Considering the
reasons given by ReBS for the need for the fee, I have significant concerns about it
continuing to charge the fee after Mr Bs passing  Ill explain why.
ReBS says, in early 2017 it was seeking to develop a suitable account type and fees for
institutional and high net worth investors  called large lender accounts. ReBS has said in
July 2017, Mr B was the only lender at the time who met the criteria to pay the fee. In itsresponse to the complaint it said the introduction of the fee was due to the way Mr B was
using his account. It said as a large lender account, Mr B would enjoy direct access to senior
management and would be able to make suggestions and recommendations about changes
to the platform and that would be carefully considered and acted on. Also Mr B had
unrestricted and frequent access to senior management and would often have weekly
contact. Mr B would also regularly request that the firm make bids on loans on his behalf, on
occasions when he was unable to login whilst travelling.
In 2019, ReBS took some retrospective third-party advice on the fairness of the LLF. This
identified some potential unfairness - including concerns raised about the arbitrary amount
charged and the inability to quantify the exact cost of delivering the added execution service
for large lenders. In summary the advice concluded, if ReBS delivers an optional premium
service (especially to high net worth customers) that provides genuine and added benefits to
customers, and the fees are explicitly disclosed and accepted by the customer, then the fee
may be justified. So, while this third-party advice identified potential unfairness it suggested
ReBS may be able to justify the fee if it was delivering a premium service that has genuine
benefits for those that paid the fee.
ReBS has provided some evidence to support that it did provide Mr B with an enhanced
service between the introduction of the fee on the 1 July 2017 and his death. I have noted all
the information it has provided. This is largely evidenced through exchanges of emails
between senior management and Mr B discussing products. And it has also described the
close relationship Mr B held with senior management.
But after Mr B passed away the premium service described and access to senior
management was no longer applicable. There is some dispute about when ReBS became
aware of Mr Bs passing. Ive seen evidence that it received an email the week after Mr B
died from a close friend of Mr Bs (who incidentally ReBS has provided evidence from to
support the strength of its relationship with Mr B). While it didnt receive formal notification of
death until late 2019 (when it was contacted by a legal representative of the estate), Im
satisfied that ReBS and its senior management were aware of Mr Bs passing not long after
he died in August 2017.
Bearing in mind the justification ReBS has given for introducing the fee and also the advice it
received about the fairness of the fee, I dont find it fair and reasonable for it to have
continued to charge the fee after Mr Bs death. It is apparent that Mr Bs account could no
longer benefit from the enhanced service described. This was a key finding about the
fairness of the fee from the third-party advice. And obviously the interaction with senior
management ceased when Mr B passed away. ReBS has explained that following the
informal notification of Mr Bs death it effectively suspended Mr Bs account. So again,
further information to support that no enhanced service was being provided that could justify
a significant fee that was continuing to be charged. I note activity did recommence on the
account more than six months after Mr Bs death  I will cover this issue later in my findings.
So, having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded ReBS should have
continued to charge the LLF after Mr Bs death. So, Im currently minded to direct it to repay
all LLFs charged after Mr B died.
Management of the account after Mr Bs death
The second key issue relates to the activity on the account after Mr B passed away. As
mentioned above  ReBS were first informed of Mr Bs passing around the time of his death
but didnt receive formal notification until a year later. And initially there was no activity on
the account for several months. ReBS has explained by the start of 2018, it still hadnt
received formal notice of Mr Bs death  so it did a periodic review of his account and found
due to the lack of new investments and the associated fees, the net return of the accountwas reducing. It believed, if left unmanaged, this would result in a lower return for the estate.
So it decided to actively manage the account, entering it into new loan arrangements with an
aim of generating further money for the estate. In its management of the account it says it
took into consideration Mr Bs previous investment habits. But with one main difference
being that it entered into the arrangements at the highest possible interest rate, where as Mr
B would often invest below the maximum rate.
Ive considered whether ReBS acted in a fair and reasonable manner in its decision to start
managing the account after Mr Bs death. I currently do not think it has  Ill explain why.
ReBS has provided a copy of its bereavement policy. This says:
Until a personal representative (the executor or administrator) has been appointed for the
estate of the deceased, rebuildingsociety.com will temporarily stop access to the investor
account in question. In order to grant access to the account and begin the window of a
deceased lender's account, we will require a copy of the death certificate and/or grant of
probate; upon receipt, we will stop the account from lending more funds by turning Bidpal off
(if applicable). We will then need a certified copy of the Grant of Probate or Grant of Letters
of Administration, as applicable. rebuildingsociety.com will continue to recover payments and
interest earned on these outstanding loans until given further instruction by the personal
representative. The above action will be taken for all normal lender accounts. Additional
services may continue to be rendered on accounts where an account administration fee is
applicable.
This suggests the account of a deceased consumer will be left untouched until a
representative for the estate has been appointed. As Ive explained Im satisfied ReBS was
aware of Mr Bs death and the initial actions it took were in line with its bereavement policy.
Im satisfied this was a fair position to take. I acknowledge that there was no contact from
any personal representatives of the estate in the months following Mr Bs death, so there
was uncertainty around how the estate would be settled. But when ReBS decided to start
actively managing the account, it seems at odds with its own policy and the initial action it
took to suspend the account. I find the justification it has given for this decision to be weak.
While it may be true that by investing funds could lead to higher returns for the estate,
equally it could lead to losses as cash funds were being put a risk. Im also very concerned it
had no clear agreement to invest on behalf of Mr Bs estate and specifically not after his
death.
ReBS says it did on occasion invest on Mr Bs behalf when he was alive. But has provided
little in the way of evidence to support there was a formal agreement to do this - and in its
submissions it has indicated, Mr B would normally actively invest himself. It has provided
some screenshot evidence to support Mr B activating a setting on its account called Bid/Pal,
which is an automatic investment tool. It says Mr Bs account was set to allow ReBS to
invest £20,000 in any industry on his behalf. It says this shows it had permission to invest for
Mr B. From the evidence ReBS has provided, it is difficult for me to establish if and when this
setting was applied to Mr Bs account. Also the other evidence it has given around the
situations when Mr B requested ReBS to invest on his behalf were on an adhoc basis 
rather than being linked to using the Bid/Pal tool. So, Im not persuaded this supports that
auto investment was something that was operated regularly on Mr Bs account when he was
alive. In addition, it appears some of the investments made on the account after Mr Bs
death were for more that £20,000 including over £100,000 into a single loan  which is at
odds with the settings ReBS say were in place anyway. And I dont think the explanation
given by ReBS for making these large investments gives justification for its actions, which it
admits were different to how Mr B had run his account when alive (e.g. Mr B regularly bid
well below the maximum rate available). All of this leads me to the conclusion that ReBS
didnt have authority to invest on Mr Bs behalf  and most importantly this includes after he
died. So it shouldnt have transacted on the account after Mr Bs death.In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the
estate of Mr B in as close to the position it would be in if the account was left untouched after
he died. I understand the current position of the account is that all performing loans (aside
from less than £100) have now been paid out to the estate  and the only remaining funds in
the account are on defaulted loans that are not expected to provide any return. So effectively
everything that can be withdrawn now has been. If this is incorrect the parties should let me
know in response to my provisional decision.
To put things right, the account would need to be reconstructed as if no further transactions
took place after Mr Bs death. To do this ReBS should:
Compare the actual value of the account  this will include all the withdrawals that
have now been made by the estate (actual value)  with the position had no
transaction taken place after Mr Bs death (the fair value).
In calculating the fair value, 8% simple interest per year should be added to any
funds that should have been available to the estate when formal notification was
given (in November 2019)  but werent available because theyd been invested.
Interest should be calculated up to the date the monies were eventually paid to the
estate. This interest is to recognise that the estate didnt have access funds it should
have had.
If the estate has received less as a result of the transactions that took place after    
Mr Bs death, then this loss should be paid to the estate.
I acknowledge ReBS say that it has generated positive net returns on the account as a result
of its decision to actively manage it in March 2018. If this is correct it will result in no further
compensation being due - as the estate will have benefited from the management. I also
think it would be fair for ReBS to deduct any positive return from the refund of LLF. But this
can only be established after the comparative calculation has been completed.
My earlier finding that no LLF should have been charged during this period also needs to be
taken into account when completing this comparison. As Ive made a finding these fees
should be refunded, this means that when calculating both the actual value and fair value
this fee shouldnt be included - and be removed from the comparative calculation to avoid
duplicating the refund.
Additional points
I have noted the additional points made by the PR  including delays in access being
provided to the account and provision of information when it was attempting to settle the
estate. I also understand the PR is claiming its costs of raising complaints and
representation to the Financial Ombudsman Service, as it believes these should be covered
by ReBS, otherwise they will be the liability of Mr B's estate. I dont find that it would be fair
for ReBS to cover the professional fees charged by the personal representative. I also dont
find that I have the power to make an award for any inconvenience caused to the PR when
obtaining information about Mr Bs estate. The PR is not an eligible complainant  they are
the representative of the eligible complainant, Mr B.
ReBS responded. In summary it said:
- The fee was introduced principally because the firm had only recently gained its FCA 
authorisation, and it was facing increased compliance costs, which it felt that the 
largest beneficiaries should pay the most. Mr B was in agreement with this strategy 
for introducing fees. The access to management is true, but it was not the reason for 
introducing the fee.- Mr B wanted to help the firm, this is an important point which should not be ignored.
- It was made aware of Mr Bs death by a friend and not an authorised representative, 
so it was not possible to follow the bereavement policy, consequently it needed to 
treat the information as 'hearsay' until it was confirmed.
- It didn't suspend the account. It acted to de-list the loans from being on sale on the 
secondary market. Mr B would often 'flip' the loans by selling them. This action 
allowed the account to continue earning interest income.
- It decided to review the suspension of the account after being informed Mr B had 
died intestate, it anticipated that sufficient time had elapsed for a beneficiary to come 
forward and that if someone was to claim probate, that this would take considerable 
time. It is really important to understand that the firm was acting in the genuine 
interest of its largest customer and it is disappointing that this is not obvious.
- In respect of the issues relating to the management of Mr Bs account after his death, 
while not accepting the provisional determination, it accepts the suggested 
methodology to put the account back as it was on 23/8/2017. But asks for the 
calculation date for when the funds first being accessible be noted as 24 February 
2020 as this was the point it had received the relevant bereavement form and had 
time to process to process the account (owing to the size and circumstances it took 
six weeks to process the form). This meant the first date that the funds would have 
been accessible to the estate was 24 February 2020. It requests that this date is 
used as the first day of the calculation of interest on inaccessible funds.
ReBS also asked to withdraw the statement it made to Mr Bs PR in the response to the 
complaint about Mr B having direct access to senior management and being able to make 
suggestions and recommendations about changes to the platform.  It says, while this is true, 
it believes that the ombudsman perceives this statement as the justification for the fee, which 
is not actually the case. ReBS reiterate that the fees were being introduced in connection to 
the firms increased costs owing to becoming a regulated and authorised firm earlier in the 
year. Mr B was aware of this situation and willing to shoulder the costs as the firms largest 
beneficiary.
The personal representatives of Mr Bs estate responded. In summary, they accepted the 
basis of the decision in the provisional decision. It has provided its understanding of the 
figures of investment on the account and the fees charged. It has asked for a figure too for 
the LLF refund. It believes the compensation payable should be in excess of the £160,000 
award limit and asks that the ombudsman recommends that compensation plus interest from 
1 December 2019 to date in addition to the £160,000 is awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReBs has provided further information and comments for me to consider, so I will respond 
under the same headings used in my provisional decision. 
Large lender fee
In response to the provisional decision ReBS say the purpose of the introduction of the fee 
has been misunderstood. It has explained the firm gained its FCA authorisation in February 
2017 and was faced with increased compliance costs. And it needed to introduce a fee, so 
felt that the largest beneficiaries should pay the most. It says the access to management is 
true, but it was not the reason for introducing the fee.I note this wasnt what ReBS explained to Mr Bs representatives when it responded to the 
complaint. In an April 2020 letter it explained that The fee was not created to target only Mr 
Bs account. As a large lender account, Mr B would enjoy direct access to senior 
management and would be able to make suggestions and recommendations about changes 
to the platform etc that would be carefully considered and acted on. As a large lender Mr B 
had unrestricted and frequent access to senior management and would often be in contact 
with senior management on a weekly basis. Mr B would also regularly request that the firm 
make bids on loans on his behalf, on occasions when he was unable to login whilst 
travelling.
I note ReBS has now sought to withdraw this statement. 
In its initial file submission to this service, also sent in April 2020  ReBS explained As part 
of a strategic decision, in early 2017 the firm sought to start attracting larger institutional 
investors and account managers. Previously the firms focus was on individual retail 
investors. Mr B consulted closely with the firm in developing a suitable account type and fees 
for institutional and High Net Worth investors. This account type, Large Lender Accounts, 
were introduced to the platform in June 2017. Mr B was aware and agreed to his account 
being classified as a large lender account, and for it to incur the related fee.
As part of our investigation ReBS was asked Please could you let me know what the fee 
was for specifically. The response provided by ReBS was:
The fee was applicable to certain types of lender accounts on the platform. See terms and 
conditions. Clients to which the fee applied would have direct and frequent access to senior 
management within the firm, would benefit from services during periods of absence or 
inactivity on their accounts. The account management services would ensure that the 
accounts were managed in line with the investment habits and preferences of the investors, 
providing a hands-off service for the investors, albeit that investors would still be able to 
manually invest should they so choose. The fee is akin to an account management fee 
applied by other investment and account management services such as IFAs and was 
introduced at a time when the firm sought to onboard more high net worth and institutional 
investors via fund managers, and modelled this fee on industry fees.
ReBS has also provided evidence of how it first told Mr B about the LLF. It has sent an email 
dated 1 June 2017. This is the first written evidence Ive seen that shows Mr B had 
awareness of the new fee. This email says:
We had a board meeting Thursday pm. The savings like account may be designed and 
implement, we would charge 1% per month to lenders with large accounts for the value of 
their portfolio. That's an annual fee of 12%pa, while this will affect your returns, it will allow 
us to significantly improve the service we provide. Ill call you to discuss it.
A further email was sent on 9 June that says:
We had a board meeting Thursday, in which we discussed the idea of offering account 
management for large accounts to provide a managed service to free up their time and part 
of the funds would be used to find desirable & suitable loan opportunities as well as to 
finance operations. For it to be worthwhile, it would be quite an expensive service, eating
into the majority of the margin. We are considering to charge 1% per month to lenders for the 
value of their portfolio. That's an annual fee of 12% but we can periodically review the 
service and lenders may revert to an un-managed service.
And another email was sent on 12 June that says:We have tried to hold of introducing fees for as long as possible, but recent visits from the 
FCA have added to the compliance costs for running the business. However we are making 
significant improvements too.
So there is a lack of clarity with the information that has been provided by ReBS about the 
true reason and justification for introducing the LLF. This isnt helped by ReBS seeking to 
withdraw a statement it made in response to the complaint. While ReBS says it can provide 
evidence of the increased costs it faced after gaining regulated status, it is surprising this 
wasnt information it provided already if this was the main defence it had for the needing to 
introduce the fee. But I also note that the report ReBS received from a third party on the 
fairness of the fee indicates ReBS ..is unable to exactly measure the cost of providing 
services to each customer or a group of customers. The report also notes the amount of the 
fee does seem an arbitrary figure, especially since the Firm is unable to quantify the exact 
cost of delivering the added execution service for large lenders. So, it isnt clear that ReBs 
would be able to clearly demonstrate exactly how the fee is proportionate to the cost of 
running Mr Bs account. 
I do accept that it is plausible that ReBS faced increased costs in 2017. I can also 
understand why a business would seek to develop new products to help increase its 
profitability.  The evidence indicates when establishing whether it was treating customers 
fairly, ReBS was justifying the LLF by proposing to provide a specialist account for large 
lenders  and not just passing on its costs to one large lender (that being Mr B). The wider 
evidence and submissions to this service indicate this that the proposal of providing a 
specialist account was a key justification for the fee. The emails to Mr B telling him about the 
LLF, also indicate that he would be receiving an improved service for the extra fees he will 
have to pay. There is a clear demonstration that the fee is linked to a specialist account  
and one even says lenders could revert to an unmanaged account service. This all gives the 
impression that the specialist service was paramount to the justification for the LLF  and it 
wasnt just passing on compliance costs. 
Even if I accept the key purpose of the fee was to cover additional compliance costs, there is 
evidence that ReBS own third-party advice indicates that there was potential unfairness in 
how it was being applied. This doesnt suggest that passing on compliance costs to one 
lender, would be fair anyway, so the fee should never have been charged, let alone after Mr 
B died. 
There are number of statements within this advice that raise real concerns about the fairness 
of the LFF. The report makes the following comments:
Although, this fee from just one customer, does make a significant contribution to the overall 
fee income of the Firm. This fee would increase his overall fees significantly. There is a 
considerable difference between the total fees paid by large lenders and other customers.  
On balance, this may raise some concerns about fairness.
On balance, when imposed on all large lenders, and taking FCA criteria into account, this 
fee could cause some concerns about treating customers fairly.
The fact that the fee is compulsory to all large lenders and it is a substantial increase in their 
fee, could make it an unfair fee. It could be perceived as a tax on large lenders, and 
therefore is likely to dissuade them away from the platform.
I have also considered the fact that the Firm has a large base of smaller customers who 
contribute very little to overall revenue but could end up costing as much as larger 
customers to service. The firm needs to find revenue to cover these costs, and one way is 
through discriminative pricing.The existence of the fee could cause concerns about fairness. However, what about the 
level of the fee, i.e. 1% per month of outstanding loan amounts and cash on the account, or 
12% per annum, which may be considered as a high fee based on industry norms. Although 
the firm is unable to exactly measure the cost of providing services to each customer or a 
group of customers, they justify the LLF by the level of manual intervention needed to 
execute on the lenders pre-approved investment philosophy. The firm does not have 
automated processes in place to provide such services.
On balance, if the Firm delivers an optional premium service (especially to high net worth 
customers) that provides genuine and added benefits to customers, and the fees are 
explicitly disclosed and accepted by the customer, then the 1% may be justified. 
So, taking this into account and without commenting in any detail on the various points  it is 
clear the third-party advice to ReBS was that there were issues with the fairness of the LLF. 
The comment about ReBs having a large base of smaller customers who contribute little to 
overall revenue but could end up costing to service as much as the single large lender 
conflicts with the view that it is fair for Mr B to pay the most as he benefits the greatest. This 
actually suggests as a collective all of the other account holders cost ReBS more than Mr B.  
The apparent inability to measure the cost of services to customers also brings up question 
of whether ReBS can support the argument that it was fair for Mr B to bear a higher 
proportion of costs. ReBs say Mr B was sympathetic to the business needs to cover 
increased costs. The emails ReBS have provided showing that it discussed the fee with Mr B 
before its introduction, dont indicate he willingly accepted it. But in any case, I dont find this 
to be a persuasive argument for charging the fee after Mr B died. 
I dont find ReBS comments in response to the provisional decision persuasive - specifically 
the point that there has been a misunderstanding about the reason for introducing the fee. 
Or that this argument supports ReBS position in saying the fee has been applied fairly. The 
last point from the third-party advice implies that without a premium service that provides 
genuine and added benefits to customers, the LLF wouldnt be justified. I acknowledge Mr B 
had a relationship with the business that meant he did have access and influence on the 
senior management  so there is some evidence of a premium service being provided when 
he was alive. So I find that ReBS was justifying the fee by providing a specialist service to 
large lenders. Unfortunately, due to his is death shortly after the fee was introduced Mr B 
didnt benefit from this service for very long. This leads me back to the conclusion I reached 
in my provisional decision that the LLF should not have been charged after Mr B died  as 
the premium service could no longer exist.  
Finally, I have noted the comments from ReBS about Mr B wanting to help the firm and 
being in agreement with the fee. I have taken this into account. While, I acknowledge that Mr 
B had a good relationship with senior management, I dont think this means it must have 
been fair to continue to charge the LLF after his death. 
In summary, Ive not found reason to change my findings on the large lender fee. For the 
reasons explained in my provisional decision and those above  Ive decided that ReBS 
needs to refund all LLFs paid after Mr B passed away. 
Management of the account after Mr Bs death
ReBS have agreed to complete the suggested calculation I proposed in my provisional 
decision in respect of restricting the account as if no transactions took place after Mr Bs 
death. But it has said that it thinks the date interest should be paid from should be from a 
later date. It says the date should 24 February 2020 as this was the point it had received the 
relevant bereavement form and had time to process to process the account. Ive considered the comments made. The date interest should be applied from is when the 
estate should have had access to the funds. ReBS say that it only received the completed 
bereavement form from Mr Bs PR on the 10 January 2020. Ive seen evidence of a letter 
dated 6 November 2019 from solicitors representing Mr Bs estate to ReBS requesting funds 
to be transferred. ReBS say it couldnt action the transfer until it had a completed form. The 
first evidence Ive seen of ReBS requesting a completed bereavement form is a letter dated 
12 December 2019. The PR has provided emails to ReBS indicating the form was returned 
on 16 December and again on 20 December. It was sent a third time on the 10 January 
2020. This is the date that ReBS says it received a completed form. I have seen a copy of a 
completed form dated 16 December 2020  but ReBS say this needed to be returned as it 
wasnt completed correctly. 
So there clearly were some issues in getting the bereavement form completed. But despite 
these issues, it is unclear why it took over a month for a request complete a form. It was then 
a further six weeks before any funds were released to the estate. While I appreciate there 
are administrative tasks and due diligence that needed completing, there does appear to 
have been delays between first notification from the solicitors and funds being released. In 
response to my provisional decision the PR has said it believes interest should awarded 
from 1 December 2019. 
Based on the information Ive seen; I dont think it would be fair to start the interest 
calculation from 24 February 2020. While I accept there would have been administrative 
tasks to complete before the funds were available, I dont think a timescale of over three 
months between notice from the solicitor of estate requesting funds and payment is 
reasonable. Im also conscious that had the LLF not been charged and funds not been 
reinvested, a significant proportion of the funds in the account would have been in cash  so 
likely easier and quicker to release. Having considered the evidence available, Im satisfied 
that the 1 December 2019 is a reasonable date that is fair to both parties to calculate interest 
from. It is four weeks after formal notification given and provides reasonable time for 
administrative processes to be complete.     
Compensation calculation
The PR for Mr Bs estate has asked that a figure is stated for the amount of compensation. I 
acknowledge the PR has provided some figures of its understanding of the amount of LLF 
paid on the account. While, I understand why the PR would like to see a figure, I dont think 
this is required as the formula I set out for compensating Mr Bs estate is sufficient to show 
what is being awarded. When the calculation is completed, ReBS should set out clearly how 
it is has reached the figure of compensation. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mr B as close to the position it would now be in if a LLF hadnt been charged after 
Mr Bs death  and also not transactions had taken place on the account after this date. 
I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable way of achieving the 
above.
What must ReBS do?
To compensate the estate of Mr B fairly, ReBS must:
Firstly:- Refund all LLF payments that were collected from the account after Mr B passed 
away.
Secondly:
- Compare the actual value of the account  this will include all the withdrawals that 
have now been made by the estate (actual value)  with the position had no 
transaction taken place after Mr Bs death (the fair value).  
- If the estate has received less as a result of the transactions that took place after Mr 
Bs death, then this loss should be paid to the estate. 
If a positive net return on the account has been achieved as a result of ReBS decision to 
actively manage it in March 2018 - it will result in no further compensation being due - as the 
estate will have benefited from the management. ReBS can deduct any positive return from 
the refund of LLF. But it must set out clearly how the comparative calculation has been 
completed. 
As Ive made a finding the LLF should be refunded, this means that when calculating both 
the actual value and fair value this fee shouldnt be included - and be removed from the 
comparative calculation to avoid duplicating the refund. 
Interest should be added to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple per year to any funds 
that should have been available to the estate  on 1 December 2019  but werent available 
because theyd been invested. Interest should be calculated up to the date the monies were 
eventually paid to the estate. This interest is to recognise that the estate didnt have access 
funds it should have had. For clarity this includes the funds that would have been available if 
the LLF hadnt been charged after Mr Bs death. 
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus the interest payment that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
rebuildingsociety.com Ltd should provide details of its calculation to the estate of Mr B in a 
clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that rebuildingsociety.com Ltd pays the estate of Mr B the balance 
plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
rebuildingsociety.com Ltd. It is unlikely that the estate of Mr B can accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. The estate of Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that rebuildingsociety.com Ltd should pay the 
estate of Mr B the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus 
the interest set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 Daniel Little
Ombudsman