DRN-3584777
The complaint
Mr S complains about MotoNovo Finance Limiteds (MotoNovo) decision to lend him.
Mr S has been represented by a third party. But for clarity, Ive only referred to Mr S 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo in January 2020 to acquire a 
used car. The car cost £11,900 and under the agreement, Mr S was required to make 59 
monthly payments of £301.47 followed by one monthly payment of £460.47.
In May 2020, Mr S contacted MotoNovo and told it he wouldnt be able to make his monthly 
repayments as a result of his income being affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr S told 
MotoNovo he wanted to hand back the car. But it explained Mr S couldnt do this. Instead it 
offered a three month payment deferral to Mr S, which he accepted. 
Following this, in August 2020, Mr S contacted MotoNovo and let it know his financial 
situation hadnt changed and that he wanted to hand back the car. MotoNovo told Mr S he 
could voluntary surrender (VS) the car under the agreement, but he would be left with a 
balance to pay. Mr S agreed and the car was collected in September 2020. 
In May 2021, Mr S complained to MotoNovo. He said it had irresponsibly lent to him and if it 
had done proper affordability checks, it would have found that the agreement wasnt 
affordable for him. He also said the dealership pressured him to take out the agreement after 
his partner failed a credit check. He said his partner made two payments and then stopped 
paying. Following this, Mr Ss relationship with his partner ended and he said he had the car 
recovered at his own expense in April 2020. He also said MotoNovo didnt allow him to end 
the agreement when he requested this in May 2020 and because MotoNovo had unfairly lent 
to him, he didnt think he was liable to pay any outstanding amount. 
MotoNovo issued its response to Mr Ss complaint in June 2021. It said that it obtained 
details about Mr Ss income before agreeing to lend to him and at that the dealership had 
confirmed Mr S entered all the application data himself. It also said it carried out a credit 
check which demonstrated the lending was affordable. It said whilst Mr S said his partner 
had been declined lending for the same car and the dealership prompted him to apply 
instead, it hadnt received any applications for finance for this car prior to Mr S making an 
application. It also said it had voluntary terminated the agreement correctly.
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said the dealership encouraged him to state he was self-employed when he was 
unemployed. He said MotoNovo had provided no evidence to show his outstanding debt was 
reduced by the proceeds of the sale when he was eventually allowed to terminate the 
agreement. To put things right, he said he wanted MotoNovo to clear the account and stop 
pursuing him for the debt. He also said he wanted MotoNovo to restore his credit file, 
reimburse his costs for having the car recovered and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she thought MotoNovo had made a fair 
lending decision when lending to Mr S. She also said she didnt have any supporting 
information around Mr Ss partner failing a credit check and so she couldnt comment on this. 
And she said she felt MotoNovo had acted fairly when it provided him with a payment 
deferral and allowed him to voluntary terminate the agreement. 
Mr S disagreed and said the investigator didnt consider all of Mr Ss expenditure and some 
of the income paid into his account was for a family member. But our investigator explained 
that even if she included the additional amounts Mr S had mentioned, the loan would still 
have been affordable. And so she said her view remained unchanged. Mr S disagreed and 
said he had made additional payments for bills in cash which werent accounted for. So he 
said he still felt MotoNovo made an unfair lending decision. 
As Mr S remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Since the complaint has been passed to me, MotoNovo has agreed to reduce Mr Ss 
outstanding liability from £9,086.79 to £4,589.01. This is because it has accepted it provided 
incorrect information to Mr S during a phone call and so it has reduced Mr Ss outstanding 
liability by the amount it received from the sales proceeds. I communicated this to Mr S and 
he has agreed that this has settled this part of his complaint. In light of this, I wont comment 
on this complaint point as part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. 
MotoNovo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that MotoNovo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was affordable for Mr S before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Mr S would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Mr Ss case.MotoNovo has said before making its lending decision, Mr S told it his income, that he was 
self-employed and that it carried out a credit check which didnt show any adverse 
information and which allowed it to calculate Mr Ss monthly committed expenses. The credit 
check MotoNovo has detailed only showed three financial commitments and there was no 
secured lending or unsecured lending recorded. However, MotoNovo hasnt provided us with 
any supporting information to demonstrate the checks it carried out. So I cant be satisfied 
that the checks it carried out were proportionate. 
In the absence of this information, we asked Mr S to provide us with information about his 
financial circumstances to help us understand what MotoNovo would more likely than not 
have discovered when deciding to lend to Mr S. I accept different checks might show 
different things. And just because something shows up in the information Mr S has provided, 
it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks MotoNovo mightve carried out. 
Having reviewed the copy of the credit file Mr S has provided this service, it shows all his 
accounts are up to date apart from one where he missed payment around three months 
before MotoNovo approved this lending. For the same account, there were some missed 
payments in the 12 months prior to the lending. But I dont think this is concerning in itself as 
all of Mr Ss accounts were up to date at the time the lending was approved. 
Ive also reviewed the bank statements provided by Mr S to show his income and 
expenditure in the three months before the lending was approved. Having reviewed these 
bank statements, Im satisfied Mr S had enough disposable income to make the repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences under the hire purchase agreement, 
even after accounting for the additional bills mentioned by Mr S.  
Mr S has said that his employment status was recorded as self-employed when he was 
unemployed and said the dealership pressurised him into saying he was self-employed. The 
case notes MotoNovo has provided suggest that Mr S was employed at the time of lending. 
It has referred to a welcome call from the time the lending was taken out which suggests that 
Mr S told it that he had been employed for six months. It also referenced that when Mr S 
called it in May 2021 to tell it he wanted to hand back the car, he told it he had lost his job 
due to Covid-19. The dealership also confirmed to MotoNovo that the information was 
provided to them by Mr S. Having considered all these things, I think its unlikely that the 
dealership pressured Mr S into saying he was self-employed instead of unemployed. But 
even if Im wrong about it, this wouldnt change my decision as the lending was still 
affordable to Mr S.
So, having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that whilst MotoNovo could have 
carried out further checks before lending to Mr S, even if it had done, it would have found 
that the loan would have been affordable to Mr S. And so, I think it made a fair lending 
decision. 
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Mr S says that MotoNovo prevented him from handing back the car when he first contacted it 
in May 2020. Ive thought very carefully about this and having done so, I dont think 
MotoNovo unfairly prevented Mr S from returning the car. Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Ss agreement say:
You have the right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you 
make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the Vehicle and to half the 
total amount payable under this agreement, that is £9,123.60.
At the point Mr S told MotoNovo he wanted to hand back the car in May 2020, he hadnt paid 
half the total amount payable. And so, whilst he was entitled to return the car at that point, he 
would have remained liable to pay half the total amount payable under the agreement. MotoNovo has said because Mr S had told it he was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, it 
offered Mr S a three month payment deferral. This is something I would have expected it to 
offer at the time given that The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary 
guidance on 24 April 2020, that came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who 
were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial 
businesses such as MotoNovo to grant a three-month payment deferral to people like Mr S. 
The guidance said that a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months 
unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers 
interests to do so. MotoNovo told Mr S about this and he accepted the three month payment 
deferral. Having considered this, I dont think MotoNovo unfairly prevented Mr S from 
handing back the car as it provided Mr S with the payment deferral option he was entitled to 
at the time and Mr S accepted it. 
Mr S said the dealership pressured him to take out the agreement after his partner failed a 
credit check. However, Mr S hasnt provided any supporting information to show this and 
MotoNovo has confirmed it didnt receive any other finance applications for this car, apart 
from the one made by Mr S. So having thought about this and given the lack of supporting 
information from Mr S, I think its unlikely Mr S was pressured into taking out the agreement 
after his partner failed a credit check.
Overall, Im satisfied that MotoNovo made a fair lending decision and I dont think it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
MotoNovo Finance Limited has already made an offer to reduce Mr Ss outstanding liability 
from £9,086.79 to £4,589.01 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limited should reduce Mr Ss outstanding liability 
from £9,086.79 to £4,589.01.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman