DRN-4116793
The complaint
Mr W complains about the delay and resulting cost to him when Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax processed his mortgage application.
What happened
Mr W is self-employed and had a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage had a fixed rate 
product which meant that if the mortgage was redeemed within the fixed rate period an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would be payable. Mr W decided to downsize and repay some 
money he owed his mother in the process. In order to port his mortgage product, Mr W 
applied for a new mortgage with Halifax to buy a new property. But the application failed to 
meet the affordability criteria and was referred to Halifaxs underwriters.  
There was a delay in processing the application and Mr W decided to purchase the new 
property without a mortgage from Halifax. He also sold his existing property and paid an 
ERC. Then Halifax told Mr W that the existing mortgage application couldnt proceed as he 
now owned the property and would have to wait six months before making an application to 
remortgage a property that he now owned.
Halifax accepted that there were delays in reviewing the documents submitted by Mr W and 
offered compensation of £80. Our investigator felt that this was inadequate compensation for 
the delay and suggested further compensation of £100. Mr W disagreed saying in summary 
that if he had waited for Halifaxs offer that its likely that his sale and purchase would have 
fallen through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W wanted to port his mortgage to another property and to do that he had to apply for a 
new loan on that property, which Halifax had to agree to. There is undoubtably delay by 
Halifax in processing the application including from 29 June to 27 July 2022 when 
documents on Halifaxs file werent reviewed, when the mortgage adviser went on holidays 
and the application wasnt progressed, and for three weeks in September when documents 
again werent reviewed. I can see that the application wasnt straightforward as Mr Ws 
application failed affordability, but this was being reviewed by the underwriter. Unfortunately, 
we dont know the outcome of that review as Mr W decided to purchase the property without 
a mortgage and the existing mortgage application lapsed.
The reason the application lapsed was that Mr W bought the property with his own money. 
Mr W says that this was because of Halifaxs delays. Its not unusual for there to be a delay 
in a lender issuing a mortgage offer for whatever reason. This may hold up completion for a 
short period. What is unusual here is that Mr W went ahead and bought the property without 
waiting for a decision on the mortgage application. I appreciate that he could do that 
because he had the money. But it meant that he no longer qualified for the mortgage he was 
applying for.
I can find no evidence on file that Mr W informed Halifax before he did this that it was his 
intention to do so, and he appears not to have sought advice from Halifax of the implications 
of doing so. I appreciate that there was a delay in Halifax reaching a decision on the case, 
but it doesnt follow that this delay forced Mr W to purchase the property himself so denying 
himself the opportunity to continue with the existing mortgage application. Mr W says that if 
he didnt do it that he was likely to lose the sale and purchase. But there is no evidence on 
file of that and I recognise that there are often delays in completions because of late 
mortgage offers but these can usually be managed. So, I cant hold Halifax at fault for Mr 
Ws choice to proceed without waiting for the mortgage decision. That of course resulted in 
him paying the ERC under the terms that applied to his mortgage product offer,
I do agree with our investigator that there was a delay in Halifax processing the application 
which would have been frustrating for Mr W and that compensation of £180 is fair in the 
circumstances. I note that £80 of this has already been paid. On that basis I uphold this 
complaint and require Halifax to pay an additional £100. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr W £100 in addition to the £80 already 
paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to pay the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman