DRN-3442084
The complaint
Miss B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of her borrowing follows.
Miss B says ELLs checks were not thorough enough, its loans pushed her into further
financial difficulties, she was reliant on payday loans to get by.
Our investigator said Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He said ELLs checks on both
loans showed Miss B was experiencing financial difficulties and it was unlikely she would be
able to sustainably repay the loans.
ELL agreed with this assessment for loan 2, but not loan 1. It said Miss B took out loan 1 to
settle a number of payday loans. Apart from these she only had one credit card with a low
limit so that card being maximised post-Christmas was not a sign her finances werent
stable. Its affordability calculations and repayment history clearly show loan 1 was
sustainably affordable.
It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. As there was no
longer any dispute that loan 2 shouldnt have been given, I focused on loan 1. I took into 
account loan 2 when I set out what ELL would need to do next. As I reached a different 
conclusion to the investigator I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms 
part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any comments or new information 
by 21 April 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision 
ELL asked for some information from Miss B before it approved loan 1. It asked for details
of her income and it estimated her monthly costs using national statistics. It checked her
salary against a payslip and bank statements. It reviewed her credit file to understand her
credit history and existing commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was for debt consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Miss B would
have monthly disposable income of £450.58 after her planned debt consolidation and so
could afford the loan.
I agree with the investigator that the checks ELL completed were proportionate, but I dont
currently think they showed that there was a risk the loan would be unaffordable. Ill explain
why.
ELLs checks showed Miss Bs income was £1,035.14. It estimated her living costs to be
£350 using national statistics. I think that was fair  Miss B had told ELL she lived at home
with her parents and didnt contribute to housing costs. And the bank statements ELL had
sight of didnt show that her essential living costs were in excess of this amount, rather they
seem to have been lower. From its credit check and certain debit transactions on her bank
statements it knew Miss B had monthly credit commitments of £727.73  largely made up of
payday loans. Miss B provided settlement figures for the payday loans she was going to pay
off which came to £705.85. This left her with ongoing monthly credit commitments of £21.88
that it needed to take into account. After making the repayment for loan 1 this meant Miss B
would have £450.48 of surplus income each month. So I agree the loan seemed sustainably
affordable.
The investigator upheld the complaint about loan 1 saying ELL could see from its credit
check that Miss B had relied on 11 payday loans in the previous six months, and her credit
card was close to its limit. But she was clearing the remaining active payday loans and her
only debt then would be £396 on a credit card and this new loan. So I think as Miss Bs
borrowing would break her cycle of using payday loans each month, and ELL could see from
its credit checks that this was the first time she had done this, Im not persuaded the lender
ought to have declined this application based on the checks it completed. Once Miss B
cleared her payday loans she would not be heavily indebted, and I dont see there were any
other strong indicators that the loan would cause any adverse financial consequences for
Miss B.
It follows I dont currently think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss B, only loan 2 as the
parties both agree.
I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly towards Miss B in any other way.
I then set out what ELL would need to do in relation to loan 2 to put things right.
Miss B replied saying she understood the reasoning in the provisional decision and had no 
further information to add.
ELL did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or information it follows I have no reason to 
change the findings and outcome I set out in my provisional decision. This means I dont find 
that ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss B, only loan 2 as the parties agreed.
Putting things right for loan 2
Its reasonable for Miss B to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to her. So she has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:Refund all the interest and charges on loan 2  so add up the total Miss B repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Miss Bs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Bs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Miss B a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Bs complaint in part. Everyday Lending Limited must put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman