DRN-3834479
The complaint
Mr M complains Everyday Lending Limited, trading as TrustTwo, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2016 Mr M applied for, and was given a loan for £5,000, which was repayable over a
period of 48 months (loan 1). The repayments were around £190 a month, and in total Mr M
agreed to pay back about £9,200 over the four years, once interest was added.
In June 2017 Mr M applied for, and was given a loan for £6,000, which was repayable over a
period of 60 months (loan 2). The repayments were around £235 a month, and in total Mr M
agreed to pay back around £14,000. This second loan repaid the first loan.
Mr M says TrustTwo shouldnt have given him the loans because they werent affordable.
TrustTwo says it did check whether the loans were affordable, and Mr M had enough
disposable income to make the loan repayments.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I thought the 
complaint about the first loan shouldnt be upheld but the complaint about the second loan 
should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I currently dont think the complaint about loan 1 should be upheld but I do
think the complaint about loan 2 should be.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
TrustTwo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M irresponsibly.
It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M
would be able to pay the loans in a sustainable way.
Loan 1
TrustTwo asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and got payslips to verify this. It reviewed his credit file to understand
his credit history and existing commitments. Using the information on the credit file, what it
was told by Mr M, and making some assumptions about Mr Ms living expenses, TrustTwo
calculated his outgoings. From these checks combined TrustTwo concluded that Mr M had
enough monthly disposable income to afford the loan.
TrustTwo recorded Mr Ms income as around £1,600, and as Ive said, this was checked
against his payslips. Mr M told TrustTwo he paid £200 rent/board and TrustTwo calculated
his other living expenses as 35% of his income  around £560. In Mr Ms circumstances  he
was living with his parents and was single with no dependants  this doesnt seem
unreasonable.
Mr Ms credit file showed he had two open credit accounts. The monthly payments towards
these were around £230. This all means that before Mr M took out the TrustTwo loan, he
had about £610 disposable income, according to TrustTwos calculations, which would
suggest the loan was affordable.
There wasnt much from Mr Ms credit file that would suggest he was struggling financially.
Hed missed a payment on an existing loan a few months earlier but there wasnt a lot of
new credit being opened, other missed payments, recent defaults or anything else that youd
generally see if someone was in financial difficulties.
We know from the information Mr M provided when making his complaint, he had taken out
a short-term loan the month before applying for the loan with TrustTwo. That loan didnt
show when TrustTwo checked his credit file, but TrustTwo was aware Mr M previously had
payday loans, as this was mentioned at the time.
Often, a reliance on short-term lending can be a sign that someone is in financial difficulties.
But, in Mr Ms case, if TrustTwo had questioned Mr M further when he mentioned payday
loans, it would have found out he had only taken one loan and that had already been settled
on time.
Overall, I think the checks TrustTwo did before agreeing to lend Mr M loan 1 were broadly
reasonable and proportionate. In the circumstances, based on the amount Mr M was
borrowing, the information he had provided about his income, expenditure and situation,
together with the information on his credit file, TrustTwos checks were good enough. And
there was little to suggest Mr M would have any difficulties in affording to repay the loan.
I currently dont think TrustTwo did anything wrong by giving Mr M loan 1.
Loan 2
The steps TrustTwo took before approving loan 2 were similar to the earlier loan. But there
were some differences in what it found compared to a year before. Most notably, Mr Ms
credit file showed his level of indebtedness had significantly increased. He had taken out two
further loans, as well as opening a credit card. Around 40% of his income was needed to
service his existing credit.
The credit file also showed that Mr M had regularly been missing payments on three of his
existing loans. While TrustTwo says he told it the arrears were due to payment dates,
compared with the situation when he took out the first loan, Mr M seems to be in a worse
position financially. And as Mr M was missing payments on three loans, with presumably
different payment dates, its unclear how this explains the large number of missed payments.
As Ive said, TrustTwo needed to check Mr M would be able to pay the loan sustainably.
Being able to sustainably repay credit is doing so without undue difficulty, while being able to
meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. TrustTwo has pointed to the
fact Mr M didnt miss any payments on loan 1 to show it was reasonable to give him loan 2.
But from what it shows on Mr Ms credit file, it seems the since taking the first loan, he had
needed to keep borrowing more, to meet the loan payments.
By taking out the new loan with TrustTwo, Mr M was increasing his indebtedness even
further, when there were signs he couldnt afford the credit he already had. Giving someone
who is already in financial difficulties additional credit, is unlikely to be considered 
responsible.Overall, I currently dont think TrustTwo should have given Mr M loan 2. The information it
obtained from the checks it completed showed it was unlikely Mr M would be able to repay
the loan in a sustainable way.
Neither Mr M nor TrustTwo responded to my provisional decision by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither TrustTwo nor Mr M have provided any new evidence or arguments in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
It follows that I still think the checks TrustTwo did before agreeing to lend Mr M loan 1 were 
broadly reasonable and proportionate. In the circumstances, based on the amount Mr M was
borrowing, the information he had provided about his income, expenditure and situation,
together with the information on his credit file, TrustTwos checks were good enough. And
there was little to suggest Mr M would have any difficulties in affording to repay the loan.
I dont think TrustTwo did anything wrong by giving Mr M loan 1.
But I also still dont think TrustTwo should have given Mr M loan 2. The information it
obtained from the checks it completed showed it was unlikely Mr M would be able to repay
the loan in a sustainable way.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr M in
the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given loan 2. However, this isnt
straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending.
Mr M was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr M back in the position he would be
in if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way of
putting things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think TrustTwo should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The
payments Mr M made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the
payments Mr M has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any
surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him.
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they
were paid by Mr M to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of this
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TrustTwo to deduct tax from this interest. TrustTwo
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about his second loan but not the 
first. Everyday Lending Limited, trading as TrustTwo, should put things right for Mr M in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman