DRN-4284646
The complaint
Mr C complains about how West Bay Insurance plc (West Bay) handled a claim he made 
on his motor insurance policy. When I mention West Bay I also mean its suppliers and 
repairers.
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with West Bay covering his van which he used for work 
purposes.
Here is a timeline of the events:
21 October  Damage
24 October  Claim made  Admin error at West Bay delays collection for four working days.
1 November  On site at repairer  parts ordered but full assessment not possible.
9 November  engineer report.
18 November  moved to another repairers site (with jig).
22 November  6 December  West Bay provide hire van
29 November  repairs estimated. More damage had been found.
6 December  Second engineer report; repairs authorised.
16 December  repairs begin. Courtesy van provided.
Mr C complained to West Bay about the delays starting work and because hed not been 
provided with a replacement vehicle throughout his claim. He said hed made many calls and 
spent a long time on the phone chasing up repairs.
West Bay upheld his complaint in part and offered him £100 for the delays starting work. 
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He is unhappy about the 
amount of time hes spent on the phone chasing up West Bay and says he lost work from 21 
October to 22 November, and 6 to 16 December. He asks for West Bay to pay his loss of 
earnings. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and upheld it in part. She thought that West 
Bay had provided Mr C with a replacement van according to its policy wording, but she 
thought that it had delayed Mr Cs claim for about 19 days. She also said West Bay should 
consider paying him for 23 days loss of earnings if Mr C could evidence his losses. She 
thought it should increase its compensation to £200 for its poor claims service.
West Bay agreed to pay £200 compensation in total, but it didnt agree it should pay for Mr 
Cs loss of use of the van as it said it couldnt have known about the need to move the van to 
another repairer until it was able to assess it. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider the matter further. This is 
included below:
Im issuing this as a provisional decision because I agree with the view in general, but I think 
both parties would benefit from further clarity about Mr Cs loss of earnings. 
I ask both parties to consider the information in this decision carefully and respond by the 
deadline.
I can see from its earlier responses that West Bay agreed there had been a delay starting 
work, and it awarded Mr C £100 compensation for that following his initial complaint. Its my 
understanding that this amount relates to the initial four-working-day delay due to an admin 
error at West Bay.
I can appreciate this must have been frustrating to Mr C. With any insurance claim there will 
be a disruption to normal life and I think its reasonable that vehicle repairs might take a 
short while to collect and then commence. 
Ive also read about Mr Cs van needing to be repaired using a jig  which is a more 
specialist piece of equipment that might not be present in every repairer for a vehicle the 
size of Mr Cs. West Bay has said that it only knew the van needed this equipment when the 
first repairer started work, which meant moving the van to an alternate repairer.
In West Bays response to the view it said it regarded this delay as unforeseen. It said it 
wouldnt have known that the van required the use of a jig until it was onsite at the nearest 
repairer. Damage can be uncovered during a repair and as long as the damage wasnt 
reasonably foreseeable, as it seems to have been in this case, then I think its fair that West 
Bay say this.
But by then Mr Cs van had been assessed by West Bays engineer. This report didnt 
identify the full damage thatd been caused to the van  and therefore how it needed to be 
repaired. At some point in this process, more damage was found and the van needed to be 
re-inspected. This took until 6 December to carry out. Then a further wait for repairs to begin. 
Ive thought about the repair process carefully. As I said above, I think its reasonable to 
expect a certain amount of disruption as part of an insurance claim. But I think its also fair to 
expect efficient service, and I think Mr Cs van should have been assessed faster and better 
than it was, and West Bays process should have moved much more efficiently. 
Mr Cs policy included the provision of a courtesy van for a period of 14 days when his was 
being repaired. I can see he was given a hire van for 14 days, and then a courtesy van later 
on when the repairs happened. What this means is that West Bay provided Mr C with a hire 
van for a period longer than his policy entitled him to, which I think was a fair response by 
West Bay.
But its important I reasonably say that West Bay caused delays to the repair process so 
although I think West Bay provided Mr C with a van for a longer period than his policy said, I 
think it should have done better. 
I asked Mr C if hed considered a hire van or had another option. He replied that he hadnt 
hired one because he hadnt known how long it would need hiring for. Hed also asked to be insured on a colleagues vehicle, but due to availability he couldnt actually use it for his own 
business.
Taking everything into account, I think the delays caused by West Bay contributed to an 
additional 23 days onto Mr Cs claim when he didnt have access to a replacement van. His 
claim in total from notification to it entering the final repairer was about 40 working days, and 
the hire van was provided to him for about 10 working days. 
Mr C has provided this service with his business accounts covering the year in question. 
Hes provided a calculation showing his average weekly gross profit of £932. Using the 23 
days Ive talked about above would mean West Bay paying Mr C £4,287.20 for his loss of 
earnings. 
Ive also read about the claims service Mr C had during his claim. Hes talked about the 
number of phonecalls he had to make for updates and the amount of time hes spent on the 
phone. I can see how frustrated hes been with West Bays service and delays. Ive 
considered this services guidelines and I propose West Bay should pay him £200 for his 
distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. West Bay raised some questions about Mr Cs loss 
of earnings. I replied to those questions and West Bay hasnt responded further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C accepted my provisional decision and as West Bay had nothing to add, my final 
decision and reasoning remain the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require that West Bay Insurance plc 
should pay Mr C:
£4,287.20 for his loss of earnings during the period his claim was delayed.
£200 for his distress and inconvenience.
West Bay Insurance plc must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman