DRN-3484373
The complaint
Mr J complains about the charges LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) asked him to pay 
after he returned a car to them he had been leasing.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I can see that Mr J has had a lot of issues with the car he was leasing, and I can understand 
that would have been upsetting and frustrating. But Im afraid Im not persuaded that there is 
sufficient evidence the business or their agents agreed to reduce the charges due on 
termination of this finance agreement.
The agreement provided for a mileage limit of 10,000 per year and as Mr J had travelled 
9,161 miles more than that LeasePlan made a charge in accordance with the contractual 
terms.
Ive not seen or heard evidence that they agreed to waive the mileage charges. LeasePlan 
have provided a lot of call records and theres no mention in those calls of them waiving the 
mileage charge. Theres also no suggestion in the e-mail threads that calls that may have 
been expected are missing. Whilst I understand Mr Js assertion that the relevant calls 
havent been provided and that an agreement was reached to waive mileage charges, thats 
disputed by LeasePlan and theres no further evidence to the contrary. In those 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair to suggest an agreement was reached and I think 
LeasePlan have been fair to continue to request payment for excess mileage. 
Mr J also says there was an agreement to reduce charges to £425.21 but I dont think that 
was the case either. The email he received said the business were prepared to reduce the 
charges by £425.21 and not to £425.21.
Overall, Im not persuaded that LeasePlan have done anything wrong here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman