DRN-2650848
The complaint
Mr W complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his claim for subsidence 
on his home insurance policy. 
Mr W has been represented by his wife throughout this complaint. However for ease of 
reading, all reference to Mr W also include the actions of his wife. 
 
What happened
Mr W has home insurance with UKI. In November 2018 he made a claim for subsidence. 
UKI sent out a loss adjuster who identified a tree that was causing the problem. Further 
investigative work was done to understand what could be done. Due to the size of the tree, 
and the value to the local community, it was decided that the best option was to build a root 
barrier, rather than removing the tree.
UKI sent contractors to install the root barrier in July 2019. However as soon as they had 
left, it was apparent that the job hadnt been completed to a good standard. Mr W made UKI 
aware and it sent out an engineer to inspect the work. Following this it was agreed that the 
rood barrier needed to be removed and the work should be completely re-done. The 
contractors had also caused additional problems with the driveway that now needed fixing.
UKI sent out a different contractor to re-do the work and repair the damage. However this 
wasnt a straight forward process and caused further problems. For example the pea gravel 
that the first contractors used to fill the trench for the root barrier needed to be completely 
removed. This required a soil vacuum lorry, which is a large vehicle. When it arrived it 
blocked the private road for access from 17 of Mr Ws neighbours. There was also a gas 
pipe that had been damaged during the first contractors work that took some time for the 
new contractors to address.
The root barrier was eventually successfully installed in September 2019, but there was still 
a lot of work to do to put Mr Ws driveway back to its original condition. While this work was 
midway through completion, Mr W was informed that the contractors were leaving and not 
returning. 
At this point Mr W made a complaint to UKI. He said they had been living with a building site 
on their drive for months and had been subjected to distressing conditions. Further he said 
the fact the contractors had left with the work still outstanding, without any knowledge of 
when the work would be complete, was particularly distressing.
UKI responded to Mr Ws complaint and accepted it and its agents had delivered a poor 
service. It offered £500 compensation to make up for this.
After this UKI instructed a new contractor to continue the work on the driveway. A date was 
scheduled in November 2019 for this to begin, however this was moved due to flooding in 
the UK at that time. A date at the start of December was offered, but it was agreed that the 
work wouldnt be complete before Christmas, so it would be less disruptive for work to begin 
in the new year instead. However the contractors didnt return until 27 January 2020.
Mr W made another complaint about the change to the original start date. UKI apologised for 
the delays and offered a further £75 in compensation. 
Mr W wasnt happy with UKIs responses to both complaints. He said he had suffered far 
greater distress and inconvenience than the compensation reflected. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues, but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said it was clear that the actions of UKIs agents had caused Mr W distress and 
inconvenience. But he thought the £575 already offered was enough to make up for this.  
Mr W didnt agree this was a fair reflection of the distress he had been caused. He asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since the complaint has come to me, I have explained to both UKI and Mr W that I have 
reached a different outcome to our investigator. I thought £575 wasnt enough to make up for 
the distress and inconvenience UKI and its agents had caused Mr W. So I said I was minded 
to ask it to pay a total of £1,000 to cover the period up until the second final response letter 
issued in January. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay £1,000 compensation. However 
Mr W didnt agree with the decision as he didnt think £1,000 was enough to reflect the 
distress he had been caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that UKI has only given consent for this service to consider events up 
until it issued its second final response letter on 29 January 2020 as part of this complaint. I 
am aware that the claim is still ongoing and there have been further issues since this date. 
However these will be looked at by UKI has part of a separate complaint, so I wont comment 
further on anything past this date. 
When considering a complaint, I need to decide whether the business has done something 
wrong. And where I find it has, what it should do to put its customer back in the position it 
would have been in if it hadnt. 
In this case its clear that UKI and its agents got things wrong. In the first instance - the first 
contractor that attended Mr Ws property to install the root barrier did a very poor job and this 
took some time to be rectified. 
In order to decide what needs to be done to put things right, I have considered what would 
have happened if UKI hadnt got things wrong and the impact the poor service has had on 
Mr W. 
UKI has said that the work to install a root barrier should have taken around two weeks to 
complete. The first contractor attended in July 2019. So its reasonable to say that if this 
work had been carried out correctly, this would have been completed by August that year. 
Then UKI could move to repairing the subsidence damage to the main building. However, as the work was carried out poorly, this meant the original work first had to be 
completely removed. Then it had to be re-done and the damage caused to Mr Ws driveway 
had to be rectified. Up to the 29 January 2020, this had been ongoing for five months  and 
the rectification work hadnt been completed by this date. Not only did the poor work from the 
first contractors cause the five month delay, there were further problems during this five 
months that caused Mr W additional distress and inconvenience that he would not have 
experienced if the job had been done correctly the first time. 
Its for this reason that I dont think £575 is enough to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience that UKI and its agents caused Mr W. And that it should pay a total of  
£1,000. I have explained below the main factors I have taken into account when reaching 
this decision.
Work by first contractors
Mr W was originally told the process of installing a root barrier would be fairly quick and 
straight forward. However when the first contractors arrived he wasnt happy with how work 
was progressing. For example, during the work they cut through a water pipe, which they 
were unable to fix straight away. This caused inconvenience to Mr W, particularly as he had 
to assist in fixing the leak it created.
After the contractors left, Mr Ws driveway started sinking nearly straight away. So it was 
apparent the job hadnt been carried out correctly. This meant Mr W had to spend time 
contacting UKI and arranging for a visit from a further contractor which would have been 
inconvenient. 
Disruption caused by second contractors
After this, UKI instructed different contractors to remove the work done by the first. In order 
to do this the contractors had to use a large vehicle to suck up the filling that had been used 
in the trench for the root barrier. This vehicle parked in the shared private road that Mr Ws 
property is one and blocked access for his neighbours for a considerable amount of time 
during the day. It also caused a leak of water onto the road which created difficulty for 
pedestrians too. This caused his neighbours to complain to him which would have been 
embarrassing and distressing for Mr W. 
Due to the first root barrier being removed, the work successfully installing a new root barrier 
wasnt completed until mid-September. During this time Mr Ws drive was uneven and 
difficult to walk on, as there were building materials and ramps in place. Both Mr W and his 
wife are in their 70s and have explained how difficult it was just walking to the end of their 
drive to collect post or to collect their car once the contractors had left for the day and it 
could be moved back onto the drive. This would have been both inconvenient and 
distressing for Mr W, particularly as it wasnt clear when the work would be completed. 
Second contractors leaving site
Shortly after the completion of the second root barrier, the second contractors left Mr Ws 
property stating they werent authorised to return. At this stage Mr W had put up with work 
ongoing at his house for two months and the work to the driveway had barely begun. This 
meant the drive wasnt in a good condition. Mr W has explained how distressing this was for 
him and his wife. As the work hadnt been completed and they now didnt know when their 
property would be put back into a good condition or how. 
UKI has subsequently said that the contractors left because Mr W and his wife had created a 
hostile environment, as they had been monitoring the work and taking photos of what they had been doing. When put to Mr W he was surprised at the ascertain as he said this issue 
hadnt been raised with them at the time and he didnt feel it was accurate.
But regardless of whether Mr W acted unreasonably towards the contractors, I dont think it 
was reasonable for them to leave suddenly without an explanation or plan for completion of 
the work. This caused unnecessary distress and worry to Mr W and his wife. And this would 
have been increased by the distress they had already been caused by UKIs agents during 
the claim up until this point.  
Gas pipe
During the work completed by the first contractors, an underground gas pipe was damaged. 
Mr W was, understandably, very concerned about this being repaired. He says he spoke to 
the second contractors a number of times before they eventually carried out a fix. However 
after the contractors left he got the gas board to look at the pipe and they had to re-do the 
work as they said it hadnt been carried out safely. 
UKI has reimbursed Mr W for the work carried out by the gas board. However Mr W says the 
impact of the insufficient fix of the gas pipe could have had much more significant 
consequences. He says that UKIs contractors were criminally negligent. 
It isnt my role to comment on whether UKIs agent were negligent. Just to consider the 
impact their actions have had on Mr W. I also cant consider what may have happened due 
to their actions. Only the impact of what did happen. So while I appreciate that an unsafe fix 
to a gas pipe may have very serious consequences, I can only look at what did happen as a 
result of UKIs actions. 
In this case I can see it was distressing for Mr W to have to continually ask for the gas pipe 
to be fixed in order for the work to be carried out. And further distress would have been 
caused when he found out from the gas board that the work hadnt been carried out 
correctly. It would also have been inconvenient for Mr W to have to arrange another fix, as 
the initial damage was done by one of UKIs contractors and the insufficient fix carried out by 
another. 
Overall impact
When considering all of the above, I think the mistakes made and handling of the claim by 
UKI and its agents has caused Mr W significant distress and inconvenience. Installing the 
root barrier should have taken just two weeks but instead it took a number of months. And in 
just the time I am able to review as part of this complaint, I dont agree UKI has done enough 
to make up for the distress and inconvenience it and its contractors has caused. 
For this reason I require UKI to pay a total of £1,000 compensation. As I think this more 
accurately reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr W a total of £1,000 
compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman