DRN-2705080
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited is handling the 
settlement of a claim for work on her property.
What happened
In 2014 Miss Ps property suffered fire damage and Lloyds appointed a contractor to 
complete repairs. A breakdown in the relationship between both parties led to a cash 
settlement being offered by Lloyds in 2015 which Miss P disagreed with and brought a 
complaint to this service.
In 2016 an ombudsman considered her complaint and instructed that Lloyds and Miss Ps 
surveyors should agree a schedule of works and then a settlement figure could be agreed 
between them, following a tender process. However, Miss P has brought a further complaint 
to this service as she says Lloyds is forcing her to accept a settlement offer which is still too 
low. And Miss P says Lloyds hasnt paid the VAT which it agreed to do. She feels she should 
be compensated for the delays Lloyds has caused in bringing this matter to a close and for
not providing her with help or guidance on specialist areas.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Lloyds had to do anything more. She
said the offer made of £70,000 excluding VAT was fair and reasonable based on the
information that had been provided so far but if Miss P provided more information to Lloyds
about the disputed items, such as chandeliers, mirrors and shelving, windows and driveway,
this should be reviewed by the insurer. She said that Lloyds had included an amount to
organise works in the offer and was paying for her surveyor, so it was paying for her to be
assisted in this case.
And whilst it had clearly taken some time, our investigator didnt find that there had been
excessive delays taking into account the complexity of the case  she said there had been
ongoing negotiations between the two surveyors during this time.
In relation to the VAT issue, our investigator said it is usual for this to be paid once the VAT
invoice is provided. But Miss P had only provided the company name and its VAT number.
Our investigator said if Miss P provides invoices for the work that had already been carried
out showing the VAT amount, Lloyds can pay this cost to her.
Miss P disagreed with our investigator. She said that we were going against the original
ombudsmans decision which stated the tender process needed to be followed and we were
allowing Lloyds to avoid doing this. She said either Lloyds agreed with her settlement figure
or it follows the 2016 decision and puts this through a tender process. As no agreement
could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 15 February 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for 
consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to Miss P. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my 
role in it.
Miss P has made several complaints to this service regarding the repairs to her home. And 
in 2016 an ombudsman at this service decided that a new schedule of works should be 
drawn up for the outstanding repairs and Lloyds should reconsider its cash settlement after 
completing a tender process. Miss P complains that Lloyds have failed to follow this previous 
final decision as it has not followed the tendering process before offering its new settlement 
figure.
An ombudsmans decision is legally binding and as has been explained to Miss P before, if 
she feels that Lloyds have not complied with the requirements made in that decision then 
she can choose to enforce this through the courts system.
This means I cannot consider if the tender process should be used. But as the crux of the 
complaint now being made is that the settlement offer isnt enough, in this decision I will 
consider whether I think the offer made by Lloyds is fair and reasonable.
Lloyds said its offer is based on the schedule of works drawn up by Miss Ps surveyor, but it 
excluded some items as it said the costs hadnt been substantiated. I have seen two 
versions of the schedule of works and I note that the costs have increased by quite a 
significant sum in the two versions. Miss P refers to a number of items that are in dispute 
such as, but not limited to, the chandeliers, windows and the repair to the driveway, stating 
that the cost is in the schedule, so Lloyds has this information. But I dont agree this is 
enough. Where a purchase is made for goods or materials then an invoice should be 
provided to support that cost. And especially where there has been a change in the price or 
a dispute over the amount. Some of the cost differences are quite high, for example the 
amount quoted for the drive is now four times the original price, so I dont think it is 
unreasonable for Lloyds to request more information such as invoices or quotes for these 
increased costs.
Lloyds has told us the offer included a sum of approximately £10,000 which was in addition 
to the items it had agreed and included a sum for Miss P to organise the works. It said this 
was added in order to try to bring the matter to a conclusion and to move on from the 
disputed items. I do appreciate the attempt to conclude the matter and I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to make that offer. However, if Miss P can provide more evidence to 
substantiate the disputed costs then Im persuaded that Lloyds should review that and 
amend its offer accordingly. If Lloyds doesnt agree it should pay for any of these items or 
disagrees with the costs quoted it needs to provide a clear explanation to Miss P as to why 
this is the case.
In relation to the VAT payment due on this work, Im of a similar opinion to what I have said 
above. In order to claim for the cost of VAT, it is necessary to provide invoices. Lloyds has 
said Miss P would need to provide invoices that show the claimed work broken down and the 
VAT incurred. Miss P argues that she was told by Lloyds that she just needed to give the 
VAT registration number for the contractor. Im not persuaded this is sufficient evidence to 
support this cost. Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong by requesting the 
appropriate invoices before making this payment.
Im aware Miss P doesnt think she has been supported by Lloyds throughout this whole 
process. From what I know of the background to this case I can appreciate this has been a 
very difficult and frustrating time for Miss P and why she feels this way about Lloyds actions. But Lloyds has been paying for a surveyor to help her with this settlement process, and so 
Im persuaded it has enabled Miss P to obtain the independent advice needed to assist her
with the negotiations. And whilst this matter has been ongoing for quite some time, it doesnt 
appear to have been a straightforward process, especially as a number of the items claimed 
are somewhat bespoke in nature. Ive seen correspondence back and forth between the two 
sides as negotiations continued and Ive also seen emails referring to delays in obtaining 
quotes for some items - this will have had an impact on the time this process has taken. Im 
not of the opinion that Lloyds actions have caused any additional or unnecessary delays in 
the handling of this matter.
When taking into account all of the above, Im persuaded that Lloyds settlement offer to try 
to conclude this matter is fair and reasonable, based on what has been made available to it 
so far. If Miss P can provide further evidence for those items still in dispute, then Lloyds 
should revisit this offer. And Miss P should provide the relevant invoices in order for Lloyds 
to make payment of the VAT  if Miss P is unclear about what she needs to send then 
Lloyds should assist her with this. As I mentioned above, this matter has been ongoing for 
quite some time and therefore I would urge both sides to come together to ensure this is 
resolved as quickly as possible.
Lloyds responded to the provisional decision to say it had no further comments. Miss P 
replied to say that she was very disappointed with the decision and there is evidence that the 
items existed prior to the fire in her property and this isnt disputed by Lloyds. She said the 
items in the final schedule had been agreed between both surveyors. And she thinks that 
Lloyds had already agreed to pay more than the £70,000 offered - without the additional sum 
of goodwill that is being offered. She said she believes there are gaps in Lloyds records 
which may be the root cause for the disputed items and elongated timeframe. She has also 
provided the following comments, which I have summarised:
Lloyds has already received the required three quotes for the door, and this has been 
agreed by it.
She has provided details of the building works required and the actual cost incurred, 
including things such as the chandelier replacement, drive and windows and other 
costs for skips etc.
The builders who completed the work have provided an explanation regarding the 
drive replacement and the additional cost incurred. She noted that the damage to the 
driveway had been caused by Lloyds initial contractors and so wasnt disputed by 
either party.
The aluminium double glazing wasnt disputed but this was omitted from the costing 
by Lloyds.
The building work was subject to VAT and paid - Miss P has provided documents 
from a building contractor which she says proves she paid this sum and has said that 
the VAT number was also provided to Lloyds when requested.
Miss P has then gone on to set out what she believes would be a fair outcome and what she 
is prepared to accept for certain items, based on her understanding of Lloyds settlement 
offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss P for her additional comments. Ive only provided a summary of the pertinent 
points above but would like to reassure her that I have considered everything that she has said. Having taken this all into account, and whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Miss P, Im not persuaded to alter my provisional outcome.
Miss P has stated that she believes the £10,000 mentioned in the provisional decision is in 
addition to the £70,000 offer made. In the provisional decision I stated that Lloyds has told 
us the offer included a sum of approximately £10,000  so this isnt an additional amount 
but included in the £70,000 settlement offer. Miss P has put forward what she is prepared to 
accept in order to bring the complaint to a resolution, however, this appears to be on the 
basis that she mistakenly believed she would be receiving an additional £10,000 - which isnt 
the case. In the circumstances, as I thought that the offer of £70,000 was a fair and 
reasonable outcome and remain of this view, it wouldnt be fair to put Miss Ps counter offer 
to Lloyds, however, if Miss P wishes to contact Lloyds directly to see if it will enter 
negotiations with her on this, she can do so.
Miss P has said that there are items which have been agreed by Lloyds already that take the 
cost over the amount offered of £70,000  but she hasnt provided any evidence to show 
such agreement. As mentioned in the provisional decision, Ive seen two versions of the 
schedule of works that were created by her surveyor and in the second one the costs have 
increased significantly for some items or in some cases, the items were not initially factored 
in. I havent been shown any documentation which confirms that Lloyds has accepted these 
additional costs in the second schedule  the document, as detailed by her surveyor in an 
email to Lloyds, highlights those items which are in dispute or where the cost hasnt been 
agreed.  And the costs that have been agreed on this schedule are significantly less than the 
£70,000 offered. So, on that basis I think the offer made is fair.
As I explained, Lloyds has said it needs to see more information for some of the amounts 
claimed and I think this is reasonable. If Miss P can provide more evidence to substantiate 
the disputed costs, she should send this to Lloyds. Lloyds then needs to review these and 
amend the offer if agreed or provide a clear explanation if it continues to dispute the 
amounts claimed. The information Miss P has recently supplied to this service will be passed 
over to Lloyds for it to consider and respond back to Miss P.
Im aware that Miss P has specifically mentioned the cost for the front door and says that 
Lloyds has not included this cost even though she has provided the three quotes it required. 
She has supplied a copy of an email which shows that Lloyds surveyor had received the 
quotes, but it doesnt confirm the actual cost it has agreed to pay. Lloyds now appears to be 
disputing the necessity of the replacement of the door, so Ive arranged for this information 
to be sent over to Lloyds to review. If Lloyds doesnt agree to pay for this item, it needs to 
clearly explain why to Miss P. 
Miss P has provided documentation from a building firm which she says is evidence that she 
has paid the VAT. It isnt clear to me if Lloyds has seen this previously, but in any event, Im 
arranging for this to be passed to Lloyds for it to consider. I would ask Lloyds to review this 
document and either settle the appropriate amount or provide a clear explanation to Miss P 
as to why this is insufficient and what she needs to provide. 
In her response to the provisional decision, Miss P commented about the fact she had been 
receiving assistance from a surveyor and asked for confirmation that his costs would still be 
met by Lloyds. Im not aware that Lloyds has refused to cover these costs. As Lloyds has 
already accepted that it will reconsider its offer if Miss P provides the information it requires, 
it would seem fair to me that Lloyds continues to meet the reasonable costs for her surveyor 
 purely to assist in providing the information needed - until such time Lloyds provides its 
final position on the disputed amounts in the schedule. Im conscious that this should not 
continue indefinitely and therefore Miss P needs to ensure that her surveyor acts promptly to 
provide the required information in order to bring the matter to a close.My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman