DRN-3806873
The complaint
Mr N complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed his mortgage to be 
redeemed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint stems from a wider dispute Mr N has with Mrs N (his ex-wife), her solicitors, 
the courts, and various others. Im also aware Mr N considers he has been disadvantaged 
because of his race and that society in general must change. I cannot, however, consider 
such matters as they are beyond my remit. I can only consider whether NatWest, in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, has treated Mr N fairly and reasonably. 
In early 2020 a court ordered Mr N to transfer a property to Mrs N. It set out that:
- Mrs N would secure Mr Ns release from liability under the existing mortgage (with a 
different bank) secured on the property;
- Mr N should co-operate with the transfer;
- Mr N should not increase the borrowing secured against the property, and;
- that if Mr N didnt return the necessary transfer documents Mrs N could ask the judge 
to execute them on Mr Ns behalf.
In late 2020 Mr N took out a mortgage secured against the property with NatWest. In late 
2021/early 2022 NatWest was contacted by a solicitors firm. The solicitors provided a copy 
of the court order and said as Mr N hadnt complied with the order a judge had signed the 
transfer documents on Mr Ns behalf. The solicitors asked NatWest to remove its charge on 
the property. NatWest issued a redemption statement, and the mortgage was redeemed.
Mr N considers, in summary, that NatWest failed him by providing a redemption statement 
without his consent and allowing the mortgage to be redeemed. Im satisfied, however, that 
NatWest acted in good faith. It was approached by an authorised and regulated solicitors 
firm, which had a court order, to facilitate the removal of its charge on the property. It did as 
it was asked. I find this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman