DRN-4290625
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr C received a phone call from someone claiming to work in HSBCs fraud 
department. The caller said they were concerned Mr Cs account had been compromised 
and explained he needed to move his money to a secure account to keep it safe. As Mr C 
believed he was speaking to HSBC, he followed the instructions the caller gave him and 
made a number of payments out of his HSBC accounts to the account details the caller gave 
him - including £24,000 out of his sole account. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a 
scammer.
After the payment was made, Mr C became suspicious of what had happened and so called 
HSBC, who confirmed it was a scam. HSBC then investigated and said it felt it had sufficient 
fraud prevention measures in place, but that Mr C could have done more checks before 
making the payment. So it didnt agree to refund the money Mr C had lost. HSBC was able 
to recover £9,306.07 from the bank the money was sent to. But Mr C wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that it gave Mr C an effective warning before the payment was made, or that Mr C had made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that it was genuine. So they thought HSBC 
should refund all of the money Mr C had lost as a result of the scam. HSBC disagreed, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made payments out of a number of accounts as a result of the scam, but this complaint 
is only dealing with the payment made out of Mr Cs sole account with HSBC.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr C fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr C ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us screenshots of the warning Mr C was shown before making the payment. 
And this does say not to proceed if you are being asked to move money for safekeeping 
purposes, as Mr C was. And it says that if someone has told you to mislead HSBC about the 
reason or the payment, as it appears the scammer did here, then it is a scam.
But the warning is mostly talking about romance or friendship scams over social media, so I 
dont think it will have seemed relevant to what was happening to Mr C. It doesnt go into any 
detail about what a safe account scam like the one he was falling victim to would look or feel 
like. And the information about safekeeping is some way down the warning, after the 
information about social media impersonation or romance scams which wasnt relevant to 
Mr C. So I dont think this warning was specific enough to be effective in Mr Cs 
circumstances.
And so I dont think HSBC has established that Mr C ignored an effective warning in relation 
to the payment.
HSBC has argued that Mr C selected paying friends and family when asked what the 
purpose of the payment was, and so mislead it about the true purpose of the payment and 
prevented it from showing a more effective warning. But the test under this part of the CRM 
code is just whether Mr C ignored an effective warning. And, regardless of why he was 
shown this particular warning, I dont think the warning he was shown was effective in his 
circumstances. So I still dont think HSBC has established that Mr C ignored an effective 
warning.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
HSBC has said there were a number of things about what Mr C was told and asked to do 
that should have caused him significant concern. So it doesnt think he had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payment.
But when the scammer first called, Mr C says they verified his identity in the same way 
HSBC usually does by confirming his name, date of birth, first line of address, post code and last transaction on the account. Hes also said the scammer knew details of the accounts he 
held with HSBC. And from what hes said about this, I think its reasonable that this will have 
made the call seem genuine.
Mr C has also said the scammer knew that he had received a text message earlier in the day 
asking him to pay for a covid test. The scammer then explained that this would have been a 
scam and was likely how his account was compromised. And while the text message was 
likely sent by the same scammer, I think them using it in this way and basing their 
explanation of what was happening around it would have linked what they were saying to 
actual events, made it seem like they knew what they were talking about and made it seem 
like they were trying to help. So I think its reasonable that this will have made what the 
scammer was saying seem believable and reassured Mr C that the call was genuine.
The scammer asked Mr C to send the payment to an account which they said was for an 
account manager. So while Mr C was asked to send money to an account that wasnt in his 
name, he was given a seemingly plausible explanation for this. And while he was also asked 
to move money from several accounts, through different accounts and then on to the 
external accounts, Mr C has said the scammer coached them through the whole process. 
And as I think the first part of the call was relatively convincing and Mr C was then 
understandably stressed about the possibility of losing his money, I dont think its 
unreasonable that he then followed the instructions of someone he thought was a bank 
employee.
HSBC has also highlighted the warning Mr C was shown and said it wasnt reasonable for 
him to continue to make the payment after seeing it. But, as I explained above, I think most 
of this warning wasnt relevant to Mr Cs circumstances. It says it is a scam if someone has 
told you to mislead HSBC, but then mostly talks about romance or friendship scams over 
social media which isnt what was happening with Mr C. And it only briefly mentions moving 
money for safekeeping later in the warning, after this. So I dont think its unreasonable that 
Mr C didnt think this warning was relevant to him and continued to make the payment after 
seeing it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, its possible to identify a number of things 
about what he was told that should have caused Mr C some concern. But based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think its unreasonable that, in the moment, Mr C either didnt pick up on these 
things or wasnt caused enough concern to overcome the parts of the scam that felt genuine.
So I dont think HSBC has established that Mr C made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that it was genuine.
I therefore dont think HSBC has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think HSBC should refund 
the money Mr C lost as a result of this scam.
I also think this payment was large and unusual enough that HSBC should have identified 
Mr C was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of it, and so intervened to carry out additional 
checks before allowing it to go through. And that, if it had done so, the scam would likely 
have been uncovered and the loss prevented at that point. So I think HSBC should pay 
interest on the amount Mr C lost from the date of the payment, until the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:Refund Mr C the £24,000 he lost as a result of this scam, less the £9,306.07 already 
recovered  for a total of £14,693.93
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the payment until the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman