DRN-1882909
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
What happened
Mr M took out 16 Sunny loans between January 2018 and April 2019.
Heres a table showing further information about the first 10 loans. 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Amount £
1 18/01/2018 12/02/2018 250
2 22/01/2018 12/02/2018 100
3 19/02/2018 12/03/2018 350
4 10/03/2018 12/03/2018 50
5 19/03/2018 11/04/2018 600
6 17/04/2018 12/10/2018 500
7 24/04/2018 11/09/2018 100
8 27/05/2018 11/06/2018 50
9 22/06/2018 12/10/2018 100
10 03/08/2018 28/12/2018 150
 
Mr M mainly says that hed had to keep on taking out loans as he was unable to pay off his 
debt to Sunny. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, 
he thought that it was reasonable of Sunny to agree loans 1 to 4 but that Sunny shouldnt 
have agreed loan 5 or any of the loans that followed. Our adjudicator set out the steps he 
thought Sunny should take to put things right for Mr M.Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said  but after further consideration, it 
said it was willing to partially uphold Mr Ms complaint from loan 11 onwards because it could 
see that hed been reducing the amount he was borrowing up to this point, but in October 
2018 this significantly increased. Sunny said it would take the necessary steps to put things 
right.
Our adjudicator passed on Sunnys offer to Mr M  but Mr M didn't think this went far enough 
to deal with his complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ms credit file. 
As Sunny has already offered to uphold Mr Ms complaint from loan 11 onwards Im mainly 
looking at loans 1-10. 
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable of Sunny to provide loans 1 through 
to 4 based on the information it held about Mr M. And as Mr M hasnt raised any objection to 
the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans I dont think that I need to say 
more about them. 
But looking at what our adjudicator originally said in his view letter about loan 5, Ive taken a 
different view.
I think the amounts that Mr M needed to repay on loan 5 wouldve seemed relatively 
affordable compared with the take home pay hed declared. But I do think Sunny should 
have looked further into Mr Ms circumstances when he took out this loan given that he was 
borrowing such a substantial sum  and bearing in mind that hed only repaid loans 3 and 4 
a week earlier. However, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which 
shows Sunny would have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. 
This means Im not planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 5.
Like our adjudicator, Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ms lending with Sunny to see if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt 
reasonable to lend more money to Mr M. 
Our adjudicator thought this point was reached by the time Mr M took out loan 6 - I agree. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that Sunny should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful by loan 6. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Ms borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. I say this because:
by now, Sunny could see that Mr M was following an established track record of 
borrowing quickly after early repayment of previous loans  he took out loan 3 a 
week after paying loans 1 and 2 early, and he paid loans 3 and 4 early then took out 
loan 5 a week later
 
when he asked for loan 6, this was the third time in a row that Mr M was borrowing 
again soon after paying off previous lending  he paid loan 5 early and hed taken out 
loan 6 within a week. 
 successfully repaying his loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable 
way. Borrowing and repaying this number of loans early makes me think that Mr Ms 
finances were likely unpredictable and unstable.  
 
and having just paid a loan of £600, Mr M was borrowing almost as much again when 
he took out loan 6  and twice as much as hed taken out on his first loan some 
3 months or so earlier 
 
so although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve 
realised that Mr Ms borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with 
debt. And despite what hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr M was 
having serious problems managing his money. 
 
Looking at this pattern of lending overall, I think Sunny shouldve realised by loan 6 
that there wasnt any indication that Mr Ms finances had moved on from whatever 
situation had required his previous loans. It was unlikely he was borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in income  rather, it looked like he had an ongoing need for the 
money and couldnt afford to pay back what he had borrowed without borrowing 
again. 
 
So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 6  and any further 
lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr M. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said. Sunny didnt necessarily do something 
wrong by agreeing a loan for Mr M while one was still running. But I think this ought to have 
raised concerns for the lender when it continued to happen. And for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think Sunny shouldve seen that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably by the time he took out loan 6  and it shouldve realised then that it was 
unfair to continue to lending to him.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time. 
 
this number of loans from Sunny was likely to have negative implications on his 
ability to access mainstream credit. This potentially kept Mr M in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
As Sunny has already reviewed its position and offered to uphold Mr Ms complaint from loan 
11 onwards, I dont think I need say anything further.  
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M has said that if Sunny had carried out any further checks on his credit report after hed 
initially signed-up then it wouldve also seen multiple other payday loans from a number of 
other lenders.Sunny has acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but not commented further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. And Ive kept all this in mind when thinking about this 
complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Ms response to what I've said in my provisional 
decision. Mr M hasnt provided us with a copy of his credit report. So I cant say there were 
any entries on the credit report which might have caused the lender concern. But its worth 
remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some 
data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday 
and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit 
check might not show all the information Mr M couldve seen if hed obtained a copy of his 
credit file. 
After taking carefully into account everything that Mr M has said, and as no further 
comments have been received from Sunny in response to my provisional decision, I still 
think its fair to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 6  16 for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision (and not to uphold his complaint about any of the other loans Sunny 
provided to him). 
Putting things right  what Sunny should do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 6  16 (inclusive), not including anything already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
 
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing from loan 6 onwards means any information 
recorded about loans 6  16 is adverse, so Sunny should remove all entries about these 
loans from Mr Ms credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman