DRN-2934896
The complaint
A company, who Ill refer to as B, complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited has dealt 
with a claim it made for loss of rent. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy requires B to cooperate and provide any information requested of it in 
order to assist Ageas in validating the claim. 
Information has been requested from B by Ageas. B has provided some information 
and spoken with Ageas claim handlers however not all of the requested information 
has been provided so far.
It is for B to prove the loss it has incurred. Ageas has made an offer to B based on 
the information currently available to it and having taken into consideration that the 
full loss claimed hasnt been substantiated by B. I think this is a reasonable action to 
take by Ageas.
B seeks to impose conditions on who will view any further information it may be able 
to provide and a guarantee that no further information will be requested. It isnt the 
role of this service to dictate how an insurer validates the claims it receives, so I 
wont be making any such direction here. Should B wish to pursue its claim further it 
should provide Ageas with any information that is available to it.
I havent identified any avoidable delays in Ageas handling of the claim, so I wont be 
making any award for inconvenience. 
Any issues with the reimbursement of lawyers fees will be taken up with Ageas 
directly as this falls under a different section of policy cover.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Bs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman