DRN-3884464
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to alert her and advise 
when the value of her investments dropped dramatically. She is also annoyed that Halifax 
said she was recorded as being an experienced investor when she says this isnt correct.
What happened
Ms R holds investments  an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and Collective Investment 
Plan (CIP), opened in 2008 when she and her late husband took advice from Halifax. 
She complained to Halifax when she realised the extent to which her investments had lost 
value, mentioning a £37,000 loss over an 18 months period and her particular concern that 
no-one had been keeping an eye on what was happening to her money.    
Halifax did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. It said that the investments had been suitable and 
not mis-sold in 2008. It suggested that the dramatic downturn in the investment markets 
during the early part of 2022, a deteriorating economic outlook, inflation and world events 
had all impacted on investment performance.   
Ms R was unhappy with Halifaxs response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Halifaxs investment advice had been suitable and was unable 
to find enough evidence to show that Halifax had agreed to provide ongoing advice to Ms R 
about her investments. So our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Ms R disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, she says:
she is concerned that the chief part of her complaint hasnt been understood, and her 
complaint isnt about suitability of the investment at the point of sale
her complaint is about what happened later when the capital value of her investments 
was adversely impacted and Halifax failed to alert her to the fact that her capital was 
at risk or give her any advice about mitigating loss
she feels let down because she understood that Halifax would actively monitor her 
investments and that a Financial Advisor would always be available to talk to and 
check on how investments were performing.
As the complaint has not been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Ms R feels about this complaint and I can completely 
understand her anxiety about the fall in value of her investments. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached her complaint. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything that Ms R has 
brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of her concerns in my own words. But I will 
comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
Ms R has confirmed that she has no complaint about the suitability of the original advice to 
invest in the products she now holds, so I dont think I need to say more about the 
investment recommendations Halifax made in 2008. 
It seems to me that the crux of Ms Rs complaint, which is what I will concentrate on in my 
decision, is that Halifax should have:
been monitoring what was happening to her investments and 
alerted her when the capital value of her investments started to fall and 
given her advice on how best to keep her money safe.   
I have no reason at all to doubt that Ms R is certain about what shes told us about 
assurances made in 2008 when these investments were sold. But I must be impartial and 
fair to both parties. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Ms R to recall word for word discussions that took place 
so long ago, so what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her 
complaint. 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. I must make reasonable assumptions where necessary. Theres more 
information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
The product literature, which was made available to Ms R when she invested, explains that 
the Corporate Bond Fund that she is invested in would be managed by fund managers, and 
that Ms R would be charged a yearly management charge, paid for out of the income of the 
fund each month. But this just means that the fund managers were looking after the fund as 
a whole  it doesnt mean that Halifax had any obligation to continue to keep advising Ms R 
on an ongoing basis in relation to her investment in the CIP according to how the fund 
performed following the sale in 2008.
The point of sale documents all suggest it was a one-off advised sale in 2008. Halifax has 
also confirmed that there were no ongoing advice fees ever charged. Theres no information 
provided to suggest that Ms R was ever signed up to an investment management service 
with Halifax. So, despite what Ms R says, I havent seen enough overall to be able to fairly 
conclude that Halifax should have provided investment advice to her on an ongoing basis. It 
follows that I cant fairly uphold Ms Rs complaint that Halifax let her down in this respect. 
Ms R was entitled to expect Halifax to provide a service to her in line with the terms and 
conditions she had signed up to. This included receiving regular statements showing how 
her investments in the ISA and CIP were performing. This was an important part of the 
service Halifax offered as the product information from November 2008 clearly stated that:Market and exchange rate movements may cause the value of investments to go down as 
well as up and you may get back less than you invested. Cash on deposit is secure, 
generally more accessible and provides greater certainty of growth. 
And the Key Features and Plan Conditions, that was provided to Ms R in 2008 along with the 
financial report, states: 
Risks that apply to the Corporate Bond Fund only
changes in interest rates and inflation could affect the value of the investments that 
make up the Corporate Bond Fund. For example, if interest rates increase, their 
value may fall - if interest rates fall, their value may increase.
The value of the income payable can go up and down and is not guaranteed. 
Halifax said that regular statements were sent and it has provided copies to me. Ms R has 
mentioned that these statements were the only information provided to her. So I find that 
Halifax did provide Ms R with the information she should have received. The statements 
provided an annual snapshot of performance and also included additional information 
prompting Ms R to think about whether her investment still met her needs and if she wanted 
to make any changes. 
A phone number and contact information was shown under the heading in bold lettering; 
Were here to help. So I think it's fair to say that Halifax provided enough information for 
Ms R to be able to follow up any queries or concerns she had about how her investments 
were doing. 
Overall, I think Halifax did enough to make Ms R aware that the onus was on her to seek 
information and advice if she had concerns about whether her investments were still suitable 
for her current needs.  
The point of sale paperwork records that in 2008 the main financial priority was income 
generation. Ms R was entitled to expect Halifax to pay her the income generated by her 
investment on a quarterly basis and there doesnt seem to be any complaint that didnt 
happen. 
I appreciate that Ms R isnt happy that she was described by Halifax as having been an 
experienced investor in 2008, but as she isnt complaining about the suitability of the advice 
provided by Halifax in 2008, this doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint. And perhaps it 
might be helpful for me to mention here that describing her in this way simply reflects 
information in the financial report prepared by Halifax in 2008 that Ms R already held a 
shareholding - an equity based investment which she had actively purchased and had held 
for a number of years. Whilst I am sorry that Ms R found being described this way was 
upsetting, it isnt a sufficient reason for me to uphold her complaint as its a broadly fair and 
reasonable way to reflect the fact that she wasnt a complete novice investor in 2008.    
To sum up, I havent seen enough to show that Halifax did anything wrong or that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms R. So I cant fairly uphold her complaint. I hope that 
setting things out as I've done helps Ms R to understand how I've reached my conclusions 
and even though this isnt the outcome she hoped for, she will at least feel that her complaint 
has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman