DRN-2805707
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, announced it was 
closing its online services at very short notice, causing customers to be panicked into buying 
smartphones and phone contracts just to run their accounts. 
  
What happened
In January 2021 Mr R complained to Virgin Money that it had announced it was closing its 
online services at very short notice. He said customers were being panicked into buying 
needless 'smartphones' and phone contracts just to run their own credit card accounts in a 
diligent manner. Mr R questioned how people in poor mobile reception areas, the elderly or 
technophobic people would be able to manage their accounts. He said he was content with 
his current 3G mobile phone and didnt want to waste money helping Virgin Money to cut 
costs.  Mr R further complained that secure messages he had received from Virgin Money 
suggested online services would not cease after all, so he wanted to know which claims 
were true. He said he was no longer able to manage his credit card properly and wanted 
Virgin Money to retain its user-friendly online services. 
In its final response Virgin Money did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it had decided to 
cease the use of the credit card online service. It was continuing to offer the mobile app as 
the primary alternative and it was introducing more features on its website to help customers 
who may not want to use to the mobile app. Mr R wasnt happy with this response and 
brought his complaint to this service. He said Virgin Money had not responded to his central 
complaint which was that it had deliberately panicked customers by warning them that online 
services would cease shortly. And then adding that online services would continue and even 
be enhanced. 
Our investigator concluded that Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong and had provided 
other means for Mr R to contact it and run his account. The investigator also concluded that 
Virgin Money had not been dishonest as the email Mr R received was to inform him that he 
could no longer access his credit card and make amendments via an online log-in which was 
correct as all of that could be done through the mobile app. 
Mr R disagreed with this view and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R but having done so I wont be asking 
Virgin Money to do anything further. 
Our role at the ombudsman service is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and 
customers. We have the power to get things put right in the individual cases referred to us if 
we decide a business has got it wrong and a customer has lost out as a result. We dont 
have the power to tell a bank how it should treat all customers or how it develops its internal 
policies. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I cant 
direct the bank to change its system or processes or to revert to the previous online 
provision. In this case the decision by Virgin Money on how customers can access and 
manage their accounts is a commercial decision and I cant interfere with that. I can only 
look to see if the bank has acted fairly and reasonably in applying its processes.
Mr R has shown concern for others who may have difficulty using the mobile app, for 
example people in poor mobile reception areas, the elderly or technophobic people. He is 
worried they may be panicked into buying a new phone just to access their credit card 
through the app. This is to his credit. But my role is to look at the circumstances of each 
individual case so I can only look at whether Virgin Money has acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr R and not to customers generally. 
Ive read the terms and conditions of Mr Rs credit card account. Under point 16, can this 
agreement be changed it says:
16.2  we may also change this agreement to:
reflect new technology and other innovations, or changes to systems or card 
schemes.
change our services or how we operate...
16.3 We will give you 30 days notice when making a change to your disadvantage.
In or around the middle of December 2020 Virgin Money wrote to Mr R to say it was closing 
its Credit Card Online Service on 31 January 2021. Its communication outlined the channels 
available to customers to service their accounts including the mobile app and credit card 
online help hub, with online forms available for certain credit card services. Virgin Money 
said its phone service was also still available. I do understand that such changes can be 
inconvenient and frustrating for some customers. Mr R has mentioned his concern for others 
who may panic-buy a new phone in order to access their accounts but my role is to look at 
how he was individually affected, and he was quite clear in his complaint that he would not 
be panic buying a new phone.  
Im satisfied that Virgin Money abided by its terms and conditions by giving Mr R the 30 
days notice it was required to do when making a change that may disadvantage him and it 
made an array of alternative methods of operating his account available to him. I also dont 
think Virgin Money has acted dishonestly. It made a commercial decision to change the way 
customers accessed their accounts and it informed them in good time. 
It is the case that the online credit card service is not available but services on the website 
still exist to help customers. I do understand that these changes may be more convenient for 
some than others and I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling in this matter, but Im not 
persuaded Virgin Money has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman