DRN-3820727
The complaint
Mr Q complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him for a payment he didnt make.
What happened
Mr Q went on holiday and on the way back his card was used without his authorisation. Mr Q 
raised this fraud with Monzo, and it refunded the payment temporarily. Monzo carried out an 
investigation and decided Mr Q had authorised the payment, so it took back the refund.
Monzo sent Mr Q a final response and said it had information from the airline Mr Q had 
used, and hed confirmed he had use of goods and services supplied. Monzo said Mr Q 
should dispute things with the airline.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Q contacted Monzo by secure messaging. Mr Q thought 
Monzo had lied in its final response, Mr Q had never said hed had use of any goods and 
services in relation to this payment.
Mr Q and Monzo exchanged several messages and calls on this point, but Mr Q wasnt 
happy with the response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Qs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator said the payment Mr Q had made was likely for excess baggage on the return 
flight, and Mr Q had said he handed his card over to airline staff.
The investigator thought Mr Q had authorised the payment, so it was fair for Monzo to take 
the refund back.
Mr Q disagreed, and felt the investigator had taken the easy route and simply agreed with 
the bank. Mr Q thought the investigator hadnt been impartial and asked for an ombudsman 
to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule, Monzo can hold Mr Q liable for a payment where the evidence suggests 
he authorised, or consented to, the payment.
I need to decide whether I think Mr Q authorised or consented to the payment. And I can do 
this on the balance of probabilities, whats more likely to have happened.
Mr Q doesnt dispute he used the airline that took the payment he says isnt authorised, and 
theres no dispute Mr Q was at the airport on the day the payment was taken.
When Monzo disputed the payment, the airline responded to say the details it had for Mr Q 
matched what Monzo held. Because of this the airline refused to refund the payment.
Mr Q says the airline had all his personal details because hed taken flights with it, and this is 
what Monzos relied on when it took back the refund it had given him. But I dont think 
Monzos only relied on this.
When Mr Q reported the fraud to Monzo he said the airline took card off me at the airport 
and charged incorrectly. And, further, the airline took card off me unwilling.
Its not normal practice to give an airline your bank card when checking in for a return flight. 
The investigator is correct when they say the amount Mr Q was charged appears to be for 
an excess baggage penalty.
I think its more likely Mr Q had bags heavier than he should have had, on his return flight. 
And I think its more likely the airline wouldnt check Mr Q in until hed either removed the 
excess baggage or paid for it.
I think its very likely Mr Q handed his card over to the airline staff knowing hed be charged 
something. I dont dispute Mr Q was unhappy at having to pay this, but this doesnt make the 
payment one he hasnt consented to or make the payment fraudulent.
Theres a difference between authorisation and consent. Mr Q didnt enter his personal 
identification number (PIN), so I cant say he authorised the payment. But I do think Mr Q 
consented to the payment, and he did this by handing the airline his card.
Mr Q could have refused to hand his card over. I think its likely this would have meant he 
couldnt check in or get on the return flight, but the option was open to him. And Mr Q had 
the option of disputing the payment, via chargeback, after hed paid.
Monzo raised a chargeback, and this was defended by the airline. This meant the temporary 
refund Monzo had given Mr Q needed to be taken back. 
It may be Mr Q feels the airline has acted fraudulently, by taking a payment it shouldnt have.
But this doesnt make the payment one Mr Q didnt consent to. I think Monzos correct when 
it says this is a payment Mr Q needs to take up with the airline, I dont think its fair for Monzo 
to refund this payment.
Monzo said, in its final response, Mr Q had confirmed hed received goods and services in 
return for the payment made. Im not sure Mr Q did say this, and I can see how strongly he 
feels about this statement and what happened.
But I have to balance this with my thinking that Mr Q knew hed handed his card to the airline 
and knew he was going to be charged something. Whilst I dont think Monzo handled things 
that well around clarifying its final response, I think Mr Q should have known this was a 
dispute with the airline over the fairness of the payment and not fraud.
By persisting with a fraud claim, when Mr Q knew he handed his card over, I think Mr Q 
failed to mitigate any of the poor service he might have received.
I think Mr Q consented to the payment hes disputed. I think Mr Qs complaint lies with the 
airline, not Monzo, so it would be unfair for me to tell Monzo to refund this payment.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman