DRN-2395096
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The car was supplied new and I havent seen any evidence there was damage to it 
when it was supplied. I think thats unlikely, and that Mr D would have been likely to 
raise concerns if that was the case.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
reports. The investigator has set out the standard required under the BVRLA 
guidance correctly and I agree with his assessment, that each area of damage is 
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. The spokes show scuffs; the 
sill has a scratch that is longer than 25mm and the door has a scratch that has 
penetrated the primer. 
I understand that Mr D is upset that a second inspection was conducted. I dont think 
it was unreasonable of MBFS to rely on the second inspection as the first inspector 
explained it was raining torrentially and I think that would have impacted on his 
ability to view any damage. The adverse weather conditions are clear in the 
inspection photographs and in the video taken by the inspector.
Mr D is understandably concerned that the first inspector told him there would be no 
refurbishment charges. Ive considered whether it would therefore have been fair for 
MBFS to waive any charges they subsequently became aware of. But I dont think 
they needed to. Im persuaded the damage to the car, that was highlighted in the 
second inspection, was most probably present when the car was returned to them 
and, in those circumstances, the terms and conditions allow MBFS to levy a charge. 
But they should compensate Mr D for the false information given to him after the first 
inspection. I think they did that as they offered a discount from the damages. That 
seems fair in the circumstances.
Mr D has suggested the damage may well have occurred after the car was collected 
from him. I dont think that is most likely to be the case. I say that because I can see 
some of the damage in the initial inspection and also because Mr D was in 
possession of the car much longer than it was in MBFSs hands before it was 
auctioned. I think there was therefore more opportunity for the damage to have 
occurred during Mr Ds ownership.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman