DRN-1382411
 
Complaint
Miss P complains that Santander UK plc defaulted her current account without contacting 
her or giving her notice. She also complains about poor service that she received from 
Santander UK plc.
Background
Miss P had a 123 Student Current Account with Santander. She had a fee free arranged 
overdraft on this account. 
She graduated in September 2018 and commenced a university course shortly afterwards. 
She couldnt continue with this course because her mother became seriously ill and this 
affected her own health. At around the same time she was made redundant from part-time 
employment and she left the course in November 2018. 
By January 2019 Miss P says that she was able to return to university and started a different 
course. She obtained student finance and wanted to pay it into her Santander account. She 
then discovered that Santander had closed her account and had entered a default at a credit 
reference agency.
Miss P says that she never received any letters or notices from Santander about this. She 
says that there is nothing on her online banking records either and she gets all her 
statements in her online banking. Miss P also says that she now knows Santander changed 
her 123 Student Account to a 123 Graduate Account in July 2018. It didnt tell her about this 
at the time and she wouldnt have met the terms and conditions for a 123 Graduate Account.
Miss P complained to Santander. It investigated her complaint. Santander said that it 
changed her account to a 123 Graduate Account in July 2018 because she had started her 
course in August 2014. It said the change to the Graduate Account was in line with its usual 
procedures.
Santander said that Miss P had broken the terms and conditions for the overdraft because 
she hadnt made regular payments into the account. It said that it had sent letters to her 
about her overdraft but she hadnt contacted it. It said that these letters were sent to the 
address it held for her on its records. It said it had also tried to contact her by phone and by 
text but when she didnt respond it had defaulted her account.
Santander said that Miss P shouldve informed it about any change in her circumstances and 
she hadnt done that.
Miss P was not satisfied with this response and so she complained to our service. She says 
that Santander shouldve sent the letters to her online banking. The address it held on its 
records was not a secure postbox and so it shouldnt have sent letters to it.
She says that when she was speaking to Santander about her complaint it didnt take 
account of her situation or her hearing disability. She says that Santander caused her to cry when she was speaking to it. She also says that Santander didnt update her address details 
and sent its final response letter to the wrong address.
Miss P has also expressed concerns that Santander may have sent correspondence to an 
incorrect email address which it holds on its records and which she didnt provide to it.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said that the terms and conditions for the 
account required Miss P to pay her salary into it. He thought it was fair and reasonable for 
Santander to close the account when she hadnt done that. He also said that Santander had 
sent letters to the address that it held for her in its records. It had also tried to send her text 
messages. She hadnt responded to the messages. So, in his view, Santander had acted 
fairly and reasonably when it entered the default.
He also said that even if the account hadnt been switched to a 123 Graduate Account, Miss 
P still wouldnt have responded to the letters that Santander had sent her. So, he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Miss P didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues that I need to consider so Ill set each issue out separately.
The account being changed to a 123 Graduate Account
The terms and conditions for the 123 Student Account state that when the customer 
completes their course the account will automatically be transferred to the 123 Graduate 
Account. The terms also state that two months notice will be provided when this happens.
In July 2018 the account was automatically transferred to a 123 Graduate Account. Miss P 
says this shouldnt have happened because she wouldnt have met the eligibility 
requirements for the 123 Graduate Account. But, I can see that the terms and conditions 
state that the transfer was automatic where a customer already held a 123 Student Account. 
So, Im satisfied that she did meet the eligibility criteria and Santander was able to transfer 
the account.
Santander has explained that its usual procedure was to make this transfer in July. Miss P 
says that it shouldnt have made the change until after the date she graduated  which was 
September. She says that if the change hadnt happened until that date then the process 
which led to the default wouldve been delayed and she wouldve had time to sort things out.
Santander has said that it wouldve provided notice to Miss P about the change. It hasnt 
provided evidence that it did provide such notice. But, having considered what happened 
here, I dont think that the change to the account terms wouldve made any difference to the 
actions that Santander took in the period between July 2018 and January 2019. The reason I 
say this is because both the 123 Student Account and the 123 Graduate Account required 
regular payments to be made into the account. The terms and conditions for both of the 
accounts make that clear.
Miss P says that the terms and conditions changed in a way which meant that Santander 
could close her account because she wasnt paying her salary into it. But, I dont think that was the reason why the account was stopped and eventually defaulted. I say more about 
this in the next section.
The actions taken by Santander between July 2018 and January 2019
Santander first wrote to Miss P in July 2018. It asked her to make contact because it was 
concerned that there hadnt been any payments into the account since May 2018. 
Id just make the point here again that it wouldnt have made any difference whether the 
account had still been a 123 Student Account. Santander would still have expected regular 
payments to be made into the account. The 123 Student Account terms and conditions make 
that clear.
Miss P has told us that she was still working part-time until October 2018. But, she wasnt 
paying her salary or making any payments into the account at all in the period since May 
2018. She says that this was quite often the case during the period that she held the account 
but Santander hadnt taken any action in the past. 
Ive looked at the information Miss P has provided. I can see that in April 2017 student 
finance was credited to her account. Subsequently from October 2017 to May 2018 there 
had been regular monthly payments into the account. So, there was clearly a change after 
May 2018. There hadnt been any further student finance payments into the account which 
was overdrawn. In these circumstances, I can understand why Santander would have 
wanted Miss P to make contact with it. Thats what I wouldve expected. 
I can see that Santander sent several letters to Miss P. All of these letters were sent to the 
address that it held for Miss P on its records. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for it 
to write to her at that address since that was the address she had provided. I can see that a 
letter was returned, marked gone away, in October 2018. But, at that time Santander also 
started to try to make contact with Miss P by text and by phone. It used the phone number 
that she had provided to it. She didnt respond to any of those messages.
Miss P says that Santander shouldve sent the letters through her online banking  which 
was how it sent statements to her. Ive thought about this. Santander has provided an audit 
trail which shows each time Miss P logged into her online banking. I cant see any evidence 
that Miss P did log in at any time between July 2018 and the middle of January 2019. So, 
even if Santander had sent the notices to her online banking, which it wasnt required to do, I 
dont think Miss P wouldve seen them until the middle of January. The 14 day period set out 
in the Default Notice dated 20 December 2018 had already ended by that stage.
So, whilst I can understand that Miss P was going through a very difficult time during this 
period, Im satisfied that Santander made all reasonable efforts to try to contact her and to 
bring these matters to her attention. 
The default entered on the account
The formal Default Notice was sent to Miss P on 20 December 2018. It stated that she had 
14 days to pay the full amount outstanding. The amount wasnt paid within that time so the 
default was entered with credit reference agencies.
Ive thought about what Miss P has told us concerning her circumstances in the period 
between September 2018 and December 2018. I can see that this was a very difficult period 
for her and Im very sorry to hear about her experiences at this time. She did tell Santander about all of this in March 2019. But, by that stage the default had 
already been entered and Santander said that it wouldnt remove it. It did tell her to discuss 
her circumstances with the debt collection agency. And, I can see Miss P has been making 
regular payments to reduce the outstanding amount.
In circumstances like this Id expect Santander to treat Miss P sympathetically and positively. 
Having considered everything, I dont think that requires Santander to remove the default, 
where that accurately reflects the conduct of the account. A repayment plan was agreed with 
Miss P so that she can repay the outstanding amount in a way that she can afford. I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
The service issues Miss P has raised
Miss P has also raised several issues about how shes been treated during the complaint 
handling process. Miss P can raise these matters directly with Santander.
But, its not for this service to tell Santander what procedures or processes it should put in 
place as a business. Nor can this service look into concerns, where they specifically relate to 
a complaints process, which is not a regulated financial activity. 
Miss P has also complained that Santander held an incorrect email address for her. She was 
concerned that correspondence may have been sent to that address. Santander has 
corrected the email address and has told Miss P that it didnt send any correspondence to 
the email address on its records. I dont have any evidence to indicate that it did send 
correspondence to the incorrect email address. So, I cant say that Santander needs to take 
any action regarding this. 
Our investigator told Miss P that she can raise any outstanding concerns about this matter 
with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I agree with our investigator. Its 
appropriate for the ICO to investigate any outstanding concerns Miss P may have about her 
personal data.
So, having taken everything into account, including the very difficult circumstances that Miss 
P has experienced, Im satisfied that Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman