DRN-3698086
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by Canada Life Limited to turn down his income 
protection claim. 
What happened
Mr G holds income protection cover through his employers scheme. The aim of the scheme 
is to provide a monthly benefit in the event he cant work due to illness or injury. 
In June 2020 Mr G stopped work due to lower back pain and groin pain and made a claim to 
Canada Life. The claim was turned down as Canada Life didnt think Mr G met the scheme 
definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mr G brought a complaint to this service. He 
returned to work in April 2021. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Canada Lifes 
decision to turn down the claim had been reasonable, based on the available medical 
evidence. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme explains benefit is payable in the event of incapacity, which means the member 
is unable to perform the material and substantial duties of their occupation, throughout the 
deferred period and beyond, due to illness or injury.
The scheme had a deferred period of 26 weeks. That means Mr G would need to show, on 
balance, that he couldnt carry out the main duties of his role between 8 June 2020 and 
6 December 2020, and then beyond. 
Mr G saw Mr S (consultant orthopaedic and spinal surgeon) in October 2020. An MRI was 
arranged, and this showed a small left-sided disc bulge which was impinging on a nerve 
root. There were also some signs of degenerative changes. Mr S told Mr G that intervention 
wasnt required, and encouraged him to keep himself active and strengthen his back 
muscles through walking or swimming. 
Mr G was referred by his GP to a musculoskeletal specialist service, where he was 
assessed on 8 December 2020 (just after the deferred period had ended). Mr G was referred 
for physiotherapy. They later said that Mr G was experiencing lower back pain and groin 
pain, but couldnt comment on whether Mr G could tolerate sitting or standing at the time of 
the assessment.
Canada Life asked its medical officer, Dr W (consultant physician and rheumatologist) for his 
opinion. Dr W carried out a desktop review of the medical evidence. He concluded that Mr G 
could have returned to work within a few weeks of June 2020. Dr W was of the view that the 
exercise and activity involved at work would have benefited Mr Gs rehabilitation. 
Mr Gs GP thought that Mr Gs pain would have prevented him from carrying out his role, as 
this involved standing or sitting by an examining table for over 30 minutes at a time. Though 
the GP thought a sit/stand desk may have assisted Mr G to return to his role.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Canada Life to rely on Dr Ws opinion here as he is a 
specialist. Although Mr G had been assessed by Mr S who is also a specialist, he didnt 
comment on Mr Gs ability to work, though I note he did encourage Mr G to keep active. 
Mr Gs employer has explained that arranging a sit/stand desk would have been a difficult 
adjustment to achieve. That was because Mr Gs role at that employer required him to work 
at a variety of workstations, and there wasnt enough space in the building to accommodate 
such a desk. However, the scheme definition of incapacity isnt employer specific, and so 
whilst I appreciate Mr Gs particular employer may not have been able to accommodate this 
adjustment, another employer may well have been able to. Though in any event, Dr W didnt 
suggest that a sit/stand desk was essential for Mr G to return to work.
Although I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr G, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Canada Life to rely on Dr Ws opinion and conclude that Mr G didnt meet the scheme 
definition of incapacity. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman